In this contribution authors propose SNPnotes pipeline for high-throughput tissue-specific functional annotation of single-nucleotide variants. This work is motivated by a need for a stand-alone software capable of high-throughput annotation of custom WGS variant data. Several types of data are integrated into the pipeline to enable functional annotation including known genetic associations (GWAS catalog), data on clinical significance of variants (ClinVar), expression QTL (GTEx) and others. The pipeline is made available as a Github repository. Major comments: Functionality of the pipeline overlaps with existing tools such as WGSA 1 and FAVOR ( http://favor.genohub.org ). The authors make no comparisons with these other tools. The manuscript will benefit greatly from clear comparisons of features, highlighting novel functionalities, benefits, etc. No data on the pipeline performance (running time, scalability) is provided. It is also not clear if pipeline can benefit from multi-core or HPC cluster environments to speed-up annotation. Current implementation of the pipeline requires modification of the source code in order to apply to the custom user data and specify parameters. The pipeline scripts should be modified in order to accept custom data, target output directory, analysis parameters, etc as command-line arguments. e.g., main script could be parametrized vcfFile=${1:-input.vcf}, outdir=${2:-snpnotes_output} instead of using hard-coded absolute paths to the data and output directories. Same applies to the scripts that set up/preprocess annotation data repository. Pipeline documentation is very limited and should be expanded and provide description of the command-line interface (see also point 3). Minor comments: One suggestion is to include a small test data, corresponding reference output along with a test script that executes the pipeline on the test data. This can help prospective users 1) with making sure their set up/settings are correct if they can reproduce results on their systems, and 2) with making progress in using pipeline on their own data. Another suggestion is to include in the documentation a description of software requirements (dependencies, versions, etc) and brief instructions on installing them. 