The authors conducted behavioral and neuroanatomical experiments to determine if hippocampal neuroanatomical development precedes the development of spatial learning abilities in an early postnatal period in male rats. They examined spatial learning abilities using the Morris water maze (MWM) task and a dry-version of the object in a novel location (ONL) task at postnatal days (PND) 16, 18, and 20 using separate groups of rats. Following performance on these tasks, the rats hippocampi were examined using synaptophysin staining and c-Fos staining to demonstrate neuroanatomical development compared to home-cage control groups of rats. Based on the results of the study, the authors suggest that neuroanatomical development of the hippocampus is present at PND 18 compared to PND 16, but that spatial learning abilities are not expressed until PND 20. Therefore, the authors state that hippocampal neuroanatomical development does indeed precede the development of spatial learning abilities in male rats. While I agree with the authors main conclusion for this study, I believe that there are some issues with the behavioral data that do not fully support other assertions made by the authors. For example, the authors conclude that the male rats showed spatial learning abilities at PND 20 in both the MWM task and the ONL task. In the MWM task, the authors point to the significant difference in escape latency between the PND 20 rats and the other two age groups. However, this difference can be explained as a result of a difference in swim speed (a physical development issue) rather than as a result of spatial learning. In fact, the authors do point this out in the discussion section as a . I would argue that the physical development (swim speed) explanation for the difference in escape latency is not only a possibility, but rather is the most likely explanation of the significant difference in escape latency, especially given the non-difference in pathlength (arguably a more sensitive measure of spatial learning than escape latency) between the three age groups. Therefore, I do not think the authors can claim that the PND 20 rats showed spatial learning abilities in the MWM task. Perhaps if the authors had tested rats at PND 22 or PND 24 they may have seen stronger evidence of spatial learning in the MWM task. Regarding the ONL task, the authors used two main measures of spatial learning: the investigation ratio for the displaced object compared to the non-displaced object and the investigation time for the displaced and non-displaced objects. The investigation ratio data do support the conclusion that PND 20 rats show spatial learning compared to PND 16 and PND 18 rats. The investigation time data, however, did not show significant age differences. However, careful examination of Figure 2B leads me to believe that with a larger sample size that the PND 20 rats would demonstrate a significant increase in investigation time of the displaced compared to the non-displaced objects. Therefore, I do believe that PND 20 rats do show some evidence of spatial learning compared to PND 16 and PND 18 rats, just not as strong as the authors claim. This, however, does not detract from the fact that the authors do clearly demonstrate neuroanatomical development of the hippocampus prior to the development of spatial learning skills. That was the main point of the study, and was the authors main conclusion of the study. Overall, I do believe that this study does add to the existing literature.