 Suitability of Title The title should probably mention that the article was focused on the situation in the UK. Does Abstract Accurately Summarize Article Yes, but may have to change if the article changes. Review Most of my concerns with this article has to do with the demographics of the interviewees. The author does not clearly specify how the interviewees were selected. For example, how was the pool of potential interviewees created? Within that pool, how were the actual interviewees selected? Was it random or where there criteria involved? Even taking into account the confidentiality of the interviews, it may have been possible to be more specific about demographics. Were all the interviewees scientists or were some publishers or librarians or others? How do those categories break down? What was the rationale for selecting non-UK interviewees for learning more about the situation in the UK? Were the interviews conducted by phone, email or in person? Some other issues: In the summary of responses, while I appreciate that the various responses are summarized and digested, I also think there are numerous opportunities to be more specific in how the responses are coded. For example, the words such as and are used frequently. The message of the article would benefit from more exactness. Is many 5 or 6? Is most 9 or 15? Some summaries could easily have benefited from charts or graphs. Related, the text of the interviews is extremely rich. Even given that the article is a Research Note, the summaries of responses could have reflected that richness better. I appreciate that the raw text of the interview responses is available to us. However, it would have been nice to code the responses in such a way that readers could track the various responses by interviewee. For example, S1, S2, etc, for Subject 1, Subject 2, etc. The material in the conclusions was perhaps a little too much on the summary side and could have benefited a little more in terms of discussion and perhaps what further research is needed. 