This is an interesting and valuable contribution to the field on the hotly debated topic of whether or not e-cigarettes function as a gateway into subsequent combustible cigarette use. Of particular value here is the analysis of the impact of residual confounding on creating spurious associations in observational studies. However, there are a number of issues in the other analyses I would recommend addressing. Abstract: This is currently rather data free. I would suggest including some illustrative results here. Results: Particularly in relation to Tables 5-7, I wonder if it would be possible to condense results somewhat (or to move some of these results into supplementary files). It seems that it is not strictly necessary to include all modelled effects, especially since not all are discussed. This makes this section at times difficult to follow. A better way to structure the Tables might be to link these explicitly to the 5 conclusions presented on pages 9 and 10. Terminology: I am not sure that the term “gateway-out” is helpful. At the very least, it would not represent the only way to construe this concept insofar as it could be argued that in a hypothetical scenario the opposite to the “gateway-in” might be the avoidance of uptake of smoking in the first place (another “gateway-out” not related to smoking cessation where adolescents who would have smoked try an e-cigarette and never start smoking). It might therefore be helpful to clarify the difference between those gateway effects away from smoking Change in smoking trends: I am not entirely convinced by this analysis for a number of reasons. First, very little information is provided about the actual analysis undertaken. I would expect to see fitting parameters for various functions to model trends in smoking prevalence in the period prior to 2014. Are these assumed to be linear, logarithmic, polynomial etc.? More detail is required here. A more appropriate way to analyse the data would be to conduct segmented regression or timeseries analysis. Second, based on the current analysis, the problem (somewhat acknowledged on top of page 11) is that it might still be the case that e-cigarettes functioned as a “gateway in” since we do not know what smoking prevalence would have been in the absence of e-cigarettes (and may have been even lower). I don’t think this is likely but this issue should be acknowledged more explicitly, perhaps making it clear that such arguments would require “special pleading”, i.e. one would need to postulate additional environmental changes which could explain a continued decrease in smoking prevalence even in the presence of a gateway effect. Second paragraph on page 11 does not seem to add anything (it’s not clear how these cognitive measures in PATH relate to actual behaviour and so it’s quite weak evidence). Suggest dropping this. Table 9: The counterpart to A3 is not presented, i.e. dual use which results in reduction of combustible cigarettes. If there is a commensurate reduction in cigarette consumption associated with an increase in e-cigarette use (if dual users reduce cigarette consumption sufficiently) there may be beneficial health effects (so perhaps this effect should be added). In fact, perhaps a more nuanced discussion of dual use is needed on page 12, given that it may have both positive and negative effects and encompasses such a wide range of behavioural patterns. Please note that the statement on page 11 “The adverse effect for smokers switching to vaping instead of quitting smoking (A2) is not ideal but would still confer some benefits, given what is known regarding the reduced harm and toxicity of e-cigarettes" is logically inconsistent. If a smoker intending to quit starts using e-cigarettes instead of quitting, there is no benefit (as e-cigarette use even if less harmful than smoking does not confer any benefit over stopping completely). The discussion on end of page 11 and top of page 12 feels rather qualitative. Either provide more quantitative analysis of modelled impact on health effects or move this to the discussion. You don’t really provide any primary data to support your conclusion ”Finally, introducing e-cigarettes should lead to a reduced risk of SRD.” This is rather speculative at this stage without more rigorous modelling as was done e.g. in the NASEM report. 