The case report describes an interesting finding but it needs major revision. Some of the changes suggested as below- It describes an NF type-1 patient with MPNST with metastasis to the adrenal gland. The patients with NF type-1 have increased risk for pheochromocytoma. Likely the patient had undiagnosed pheochromocytoma (was the patient hypertensive?) and the patient developed metastasis to pheochromocytoma. So it describes more of cancer-to-cancer metastasis than collision tumor. Add more references with respect to cancer-to-cancer metastasis. Collision tumor is defined as two distinct tumors developing in juxtaposition to one another without areas of intermingling. In the current case, as in Figure 2, there is an intermingling of both components- so again it is not a collision tumor. The title needs to be changed and make it apt. Spelling errors like prognoses (mentioned in conclusion). There is nothing called epithelial sarcoma, the correct terminology is epithelioid sarcoma. MPNST stands for malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor so no need for peripheral MPNST (mentioned in the first line of the last paragraph of discussion). Please check for grammatical errors as well. Abstract- talks about guidelines for staging peripheral nerve sheath tumors, which sounds like it was a benign tumor. So use MPNST instead of just peripheral nerve sheath tumor. Abstract and discussion mention isolated adrenal metastasis, which is not true; she had both bone and adrenal metastasis. There is mention that- "She underwent primary and adrenal metastasis resection." consider revising it to primary tumor resection and adrenalectomy for metastasis. Expand on physical exam of thigh mass- size, tenderness, consistency etc. Elaborate on findings of MRI with details of imaging findings of adrenal metastasis. Expand on gross findings of thigh mass and adrenal nodules- eg. size, color, infiltrative or well-circumscribed etc. Did both the adrenal nodules have similar histological findings? Were any immunostains done to confirm pheochromocytoma component? Ref 9 talks about patients with malignant neoplasm of the upper or lower extremity. There is no mention of that those were sarcomas. Check for that. Expand on abstract- add more about the significance of the findings of the case; expand on introduction and discussion- add more details for sarcoma, development of MPNST in association to NF-1, adrenal metastasis, management guidelines, more references for the recommendation for screening CT A/P for sarcomas. In the discussion, authors have suggested adding screening CT A/P for large (5cm), deep tumors of any histology- expand more on this by adding more references. Add limitations of the study, the major limitation being small sample size. 