 Based on the clinical description, the tumor seems to be in the sigmoid colon, which indeed is a rare localization. The authors however use the terms colon and rectum interchangeably. Rectal SCC carcinoma is common and the ethological factor there is most often HPV infection. Regarding patient information - it is too much revealing to indicate the profession of the patient. Please replace with the statement that her field of work is not associated with this kind of malignancy. On the diagnostic report, please specify TNM of the tumor and G as well. What did the gynecological report show, was there presence of HPV-associated changes in the cervical smear? That information could provide some information on the pathogenesis of the condition. On the report of the operative materials, please provide the TRG pf the tumor. In the discussion, RSCC does not share many of the hallmarks of AC - no mucus and obstructions are much less common. General comment on writing style: in some places the text is written very confusingly e.g.: "Although this specific IHC stain was not utilized in this case due to availability, cytokeratin CAM5.2, an epithelial marker, immunoreactivity suggests rectal tissue as the primary tumor site, rather than anal". The discussion needs to focus more on the analysis of the patient and the data you have stated in the introduction such as "no general consensus exists regarding the optimal treatment regimen due to the rarity of this cancer". Histology is of sub-par quality - in the HE stained slides I am convinced that that is SCC, but I am not convinced on the location of the tumor, please provide a new slide which is more informative. The quality of the IHC is very bad, there is no counter staining on the cellular nucleus and the pattern on reactivity is more suggestive of tumor necrosis rather than that of any SCC - these need to be addressed. The abstract is way too short and seems a little bit detached from the article main text - please restructure it so be more coherent with the data provided in the manuscript. 