In this article the authors have summarized the importance of consuming a Mediterranean-style diet, which is associated with prevention of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. It is know that a Mediterranean-style diet (MD) contributes to the high proportion of fibre, mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids, antioxidants and polyphenols. The authors have also stated the beneficial modulation of the gut microbiome is associated with MD as evident from in-vivo experimental studies. The consumption of MD has provided many health benefits which is associated with rich microbial diversity, composition and its function. In this review article, the author have discussed, with evidence, the MD in rodent human subjects, as well as the importance of gut bacteria and microbial metabolites. The article has been well-written with reference to bile, gut microbiota chronic diseases, where in authors have underlined the benefits of MD. They have also summarised western style of dietary habits associated with chronic diseases. Further, the authors have provided information on MD, its intangible culture and nutritional dietary pattern along with the ingredients generally used. In subsequent sections, MD and its positive health effects and possible mechanisms is provided in a tabulated form. The authors have presented a diagrammatic overview of the consumption of MD and its effect on gut microbiota, especially on microbiome diversity by minimizing the occurrence of firmicutes and proteobacteria. In subsequent sections the authors have mentioned the microbial mediated beneficial effects of MD and it possible mechanisms. The authors have mentioned the use of Non-human Primates (NHP) for studying diet microbial interaction with reference to human health and diseases. In subsequent sections, the authors have mentioned the effects of MD on the microbial diversity of NHP and its correlation with human subjects, distinct microflora associated with human subjects e.g. Ruminococcus is also described. In the 'Perspectives on the future' section the authors have highlighted the importance of plant based foods and its importance to host metabolic rate etc. The microbiome composition and metabolite production that are required to prevent various lifestyle disorders have been suggested. Authors have also provided information on how probiotics can influence the gut microbiome of the personalized hot. Accordingly, authors have prepared the article well and following comments are suggested: Comments: The use of the acronym MD for "Mediterranean-style diet" should be consistent throughout the MS. In table 2, please change "SCFA" in possible mechanism to "SCFA production". The many repeated MD ingredients mentioned in table 2 could be better represented by combining a few of the rows. In figure 1, it is suggested that the font colour for the increased parameters could be green and the those for decreased one could be red. Authors could include a section for the role of prebiotic compounds that are found in MD. A concern when comparing NHP microbiome with that of the human microbiome is that is all the interaction (enzymatic or hormonal) similar to that of NHP? As any difference in these factors in the two species can result in misleading conclusions. 