Leung et al., has applied a proteomic profiling approach to solubilized gynecological tissue samples to delineate protein markers differentiating subtypes of non-serous ovarian cancer. Notably, these sub-types include protein markers that may differentiate endometrioid and clear cell carcinoma. Using 21 patient samples, of which 6 patients were histopathologically diagnosed with clear cell carcinoma and another 6 samples with endometrioid carcinoma, the authors have identified over 5000 proteins in the small cohorts using mass spectrometry based label-free quantitative proteomics approach. In this regard, I found Supplementary Figure 1 with the Venn diagram to be more informative than Figure 1b. It may be worthwhile to consider swapping Figure 1b with supplementary Figure 1. In general, this manuscript has many figures that nicely complement each other, including the covariance analysis presented in Figure 1c and the principal component analysis in Figure 3a. The experimental procedures applied here are sound. However, I am curious to know if the 1 cm 3 of the tissue is a randomly selected segment or purposely segmented region of the tissue that define the tumor stage. This may be important for the samples in the early tumor stages and in general where there is heterogeneity as may be the case for sample 18. Nonetheless, it appears the approach is to be a macroscopic view as the authors note and the results are encouraging. I found the strength of the study was in the ability to show the contrast between previous genomic data and the author’s proteomic findings (notably for the expression of ARI1DA, PTEN, and PIK3CA). However, the authors also indicate some closeness of their findings to previous genomic data on markers associated with clear cell carcinoma. Although the size of samples or cohorts may be small, these initial findings are easily appreciated and much needed to pursue further directions toward understanding non-serous ovarian cancer subtypes. Given the novelty of potential pathways implicated in clear cell carcinoma from the findings and need for further evaluation on a clinical and scientific basis, I believe this manuscript needs only minor revisions and should be accepted for indexing. Minor comments: Report centrifugation speeds in x g unit, as the RPM is not indicative of the force and varies with radius of the centrifuge. Figure 1b caption. Authors note the error bars are the standard deviation. Briefly elaborate on the standard deviation or spread of which data (e.g. within each data set based on 2 minimum peptides, or software determined, etc). 