The authors present a protocol for a study-in-preparation that aims to investigate effects of Running Therapy on executive functions and sleep quality in prisoners. Study participants in two Dutch prisons will receive three months of Running Therapy consisting of supervised running for 2 days per week and 1 day per week of unsupervised running. Before starting with Running Therapy the prisoners will be assessed with a neuropsychological test battery examining executive functions (CANTAB) and will be given four questionnaires (and optionally an Actiwatch) measuring a broad spectrum of complaints, sleep characteristics and aggression. After three months of participating in Running Therapy, the participants will be re-assessed with the same tests and questionnaires. The application of Running Therapy is supposed to positively influence executive functioning, sleep and to reduce aggression as well as symptoms of depression, anxiety and behavioural symptoms of ADHD. General evaluation The authors propose an innovative study that tackles a highly relevant applied issue, namely to identify measures that possibly reduce recidivism among prisoners. As the authors are aware, this relevance in practical terms goes along with some limitations in terms of meeting scientific standards. These limitations are imposed by severe restrictions regarding the study design as well as the examination procedures. Because the investigators are not allowed to interfere with any daily practice in prison, the authors are obliged to resort to a pre-post design instead of conducting a randomized controlled trial. Furthermore, the authors are not allowed to control the referral of potential participants to Running Therapy but will include any participants referred to this therapy by the psycho-medical staff of the respective institution. Despite these limitations, the proposed study promises to yield important data that will hopefully pave the way to a more rigorous study of this issue. Specific comments One of the major problems associated with a pre-post design is that practice effects may be erroneously considered as treatment effects. Would it be possible to run a control group of not imprisoned subjects that is matched with respect to other relevant characteristics in order to estimate the magnitude of to-be expected practice effects? The authors discuss both direct and indirect routes by which Running Therapy may improve executive functions. Maybe it would be possible to distinguish among possible modes of action by running mediational analyses? The measures obtained with Actiwatch offer the opportunity to analyze effects of Running Therapy on sleep quality and other activity related measures in a temporally more fine-grained manner than the primary outcome measures related to executive functions, for example, by using multi-level analyses. Overall, given that prisons are a very hard to access field of observation, it should be worthwhile to make use of more than standard statistical procedures to gather as much information as possible from any data obtained in this setting. 