There is a general excitement about the perspectives of improved medical care and therapies afforded by the recent emergence of cost-effective high-throughput disruptive technologies, allowing the generation and computational analyses of massive amounts of clinically-relevant data and their transformation into useful information. This hype is evidenced by the abounding scientific literature on these subjects. The current manuscript summarizes the field approaching it from the perspective of pharma industries and focusing on chronic diseases. I read it more as representing as a first step, promoting a dialogue between the interested stakeholders, triggering reactions in order to eventually catalyse or crystalize the convergence of synergistic approaches. The manuscript lists numerous elements of discussion and consideration. This list is obviously incomplete, each reader may have his own favourite points to add. But this is also the purpose of this article (to which I could add my pet projects or thoughts). Indeed, in many aspects, this opening call to “put all the pieces of the puzzle together” may suffer from being yet incomplete, partially superficial or presenting an overly simplified interpretation; it may elicit disagreements on particular points. Yet, these limitations essentially reflect the uncertainties in which this field is currently navigating. As such the manuscript warrants publication in F1000, a forum where such discussions are encouraged. Specific comments: I like the wink to the tension between civilization, lifestyles and new technologies or what is referred to as “the other side of the coin”. Future discussions might also consider the potential risk of a further dramatic narrowing of the cultural, ethnic, species and environmental diversity, the consequences of which we don’t fathom fully as yet (although there have been numerous historical precedents, also illustrated in Y Harari's book). I would encourage further discussions on the deer necessity for the implementation of standardized, consistent nomenclatures and ontologies allowing, as suggested, cross-disease interactive channels. This is a real challenge as clinical data are much more complex and heterogeneous than lab data. To this we must add additional obstacles, when considering patient-centred involvement: these concern, among others, language (and cultural) barriers, the abundance of non-clinically approved monitoring devices and the heterogeneity in patients' verbal description of their status. Minor item: Correct ADIS to AIDS (under Modernization of diagnosis and personalized therapy) 