I think that all the data is a quite good contribution, but in my opinion, text should be deeply modified to be more attractive to the readers and to point more directly their main objective. Introduction Paragraph 2: I suggest the authors to focus in the evidences showed by Chang et al. We know that vaccines are not available for COVID yet but your aim is to identify potential drugs for treatment. Paragraph 3: Move this paragraph below “ The World Health Organization (WHO) declared this disease as a pandemic on 11th March, 2020 and SARS-CoV-2 as the deadliest virus till date on earth claiming 217,896 deaths till 30th April, 2020”. Paragraph 4: Please remove this paragraph because is not discussed in the corresponding section. Paragraph 5: I recommend the authors to rewrite this paragraph. Authors performed an approach for searching drugs candidates based on databases. Please, focus in the main objective of the work. In my opinion authors could highlight the importance of bioinformatic tools (docking as the first approach) using available databases. I suggest to rewrite this paragraph because most of it content correspond to the Methodology section. Methods In my opinion authors should be more clear with the methodology. You could cite a work in the introduction section where docking was the better strategy for drugs candidates search. In this section, you should explain your criteria of protein selection, provide a list and finally, the docking process. I suggest to reorganize this section as: "Molecule selection and processing (or edition)" and “Molecular docking”. In my opinion it is not necessary to split this information. Results For a better understanding, I strongly recommend to use a general graphical scheme explaining the selection, the macromolecules edition, and the pipe used for the docking analysis. I suggest to focus only in the docking results against different ligands (from databases, natural etc). Some sentences correspond to the discussion section. Discussion It is not clear if you work with information from databases or with clinical samples. Please, rewrite this sentence. The paragraph underline (2nd) is disconnected from this section, please review. In my opinion the third paragraph of this section is not necessary. Authors could write in a sentence all this information and cite. I also suggest to discuss better your results and make a contrast with the available bibliography; authors repeated in this section the results. I understand that your contribution is relevant but from other perspective: bioinformatic tools for a quick detection of potential antivirals or drugs, using as an example the COVID. Several papers cited in the introduction section are not discussed. Conclusions I suggest the integration of this section with the discussion. Authors proposed several treatments, inferred from HTVS, however, you should be careful with your statements. I recommend to discuss and compare the variables or data as indicators for potential treatments. The manuscript is written with understandable English, though some English revision is necessary. In my opinion, after several major revisions and reorganization of the text, the study will be acceptable for indexing on F1000Research. 