This is a sound and useful contribution to the identified problem of improving laboratory capacity as a key dimension of meeting global NTD control targets. The structure, methods, findings, conclusions and recommendations are clear. The responses to previous reviewers' comments are adequate, both in the text and especially in the exchanges/comments directly. The content of the manuscript stands on its own as a useful though limited contribution. However, I found the gaps and limitations at least as intriguing and important and would encourage the authors to comment a bit further on these (as in the exchanges with other reviewers), notably regarding the Africa region, the zero response from the European region, and what the implications might be of basing policy and funding decisions on the basis of evidence from this smallish sample (though on the pragmatic side, if the objective is to engage with laboratories and build a network, then there is a clear logic to engaging with the ones who responded to the survey). I wonder also if the authors might consider adjusting the title of the manuscript. The manuscript addresses some important dimensions of understanding existing capacity, though more in the form of documenting than analysing or understanding it. But the manuscript does not really address the main title, "Establishing an international laboratory network for neglected tropical diseases". The manuscript does not convincingly show that a NETWORK is the best or an appropriate response to the current situation (as opposed to strengthening the important gaps identified by the studies within countries or institutions, for example), nor does it engage at all with the dynamics, opportunities and challenges of creating and sustaining and mobilizing networks. I do not think that the study design and content lend themselves easily to this dimension, so I would suggest that the authors clarify somewhere up front or towards the end that the findings reported here may contribute to the eventual establishment of a network, and to outline up front at least briefly how they understand networks and why (a) network may be appropriate. If they prefer to refer readers to the NTD STAG recommendations, that is fine, but the paper on its own does not make a case for or directly contribute to the process of establishing a network. The other question that came to mind as I read the paper was how NTD reference (and other) laboratories are situated in the broader ecosystem of laboratories with disease control or public health functions in general. Another reviewer also commented on this parenthetically, but I would be interested in knowing a bit more. Is it the authors' and others' view that separate laboratories are needed (a vertical approach), or that NTDs should be integrated into other health system laboratory services (a fully integrated approach), or something in between (a diagonal approach)? Coming from the public health side of HIV, MNCH and NCD control, I am less than thrilled to envisage a parallel proliferation of separate, vertical structures on the laboratory side to what we see on the health system side. I would appreciate seeing a bit more on this, as I am a novice to the NTD laboratory world as an important domain in its own right. There are a few typo/grammatical awkwardnesses - paragraph 2, "lacking laboratory capacity" feels a bit awkward; paragraph 4, incomplete sentence ("each of which should head a pyramidal..."), under methods I would not usually say that a study can "avoid bias" but rather "decrease, limit, etc". 