I think removing the sentences helped to sharpen the focus of the manuscript. However, I still strongly disagree with the main point of the paper, phrased in the title as it would be "necessity for the observer to examine the system from a first-person frame of reference to trace the path of generation of inner sensations". I think the opposite. We need to step-out to understand the underlying process of perception (the closest to "inner sensation"). The history of science argues that the further we are from the egocentric point of view the better our understanding becomes (e.g. the history of astrophysics). I think the challenge is exactly the opposite of what the author states. Namely, to be able to define the set of mechanisms that explain the emergence of self and embodied cognition. We need to explain how the sensory input is learnt to be integrated during the first few years to generate a corpus of first person experience as an independent entity and able to attribute autonomy to the actions and volition during the early childhood. I am trying to give another example. Sleep. We all sleep so we all have the first person experience. Does that provide us explanation for the mechanisms of sleep? Obviously not. Does the release of serotonin and orexin explain the first-person experience of sleep? Not directly but it may explain the brain state that transitions to dreams, which may take us one step closer to describe the visual experience during dreams. Do we need to leave the third person or a de-personalized paradigm? We don't. Nevertheless, step by step we are getting closer to understand our subjective experience of sleep in simple causal terms. The point is: If we agree that the language of science should be a causal logic, and causality is agnostic to the point of view, then it does not matter which perspective are we taking. The description of the process in terms of causes and effects would not be affected by the observer's position. The data is, but not the process. Secondly, the author is trying to sell two ideas in the one package . One is the "necessity" of the first-person point of view, which is insufficiently supported (see above). The second is that subthreshold dendritic spikes would represent the undisclosed source of the first-person experience. Proposing that there is a separate neuronal signal processing stream, i.e. the subthreshold activity, which conveys a different quality of senses raises more questions than provides answers. What evidence do we have for subthreshold activity is being decoded as a separate quality? What evidence do we have in support of special neural signals generating subjective fist-person sensation as opposed to simply communicating viewpoint independent sensations? In what sense the model of embodied cognition based on the multiple somatotopic representations of the body is insufficient to explain first-person experience of sensory input? These are the questions one need to answer before proposing an idea orthogonal to the current paradigms. Lastly, another example: binocular vision. The first person experience from visual input does not occur until the optic radiation reaches the visual cortex. Only after combining information from the two eyes does the first-person perspective (depth is added) become complete. Hence, the first person experience is computed in the brain. Not given from the source. Was the source of that information different and separated from the known tracts of visual pathway starting from the retina? I doubt. Neither did we have to leave the realm of third-person electrophysiology and anatomy to track down the emergence of first person aspect from information combined across the eyes. There are many questions left unanswered, of course, but we do not need to give up striving for objectivity.