First of all, please allow me to congratulate the authors for attempting to undertake this study which I found quite interesting and useful as a reference for further study in the orthodontics material field. The manuscript itself is well-written and well-structured and I have to also commend the authors for this matter. However, I may require some clarifications on the following issues: The paper is well organized and easy to follow. To improve the readability, it is recommended that the text is checked by a native English speaking person as many of the sentences might be misunderstood. I suggest a revision of the grammar structures by an expert editor in revising manuscripts. Abstract: Please add the p-value used for the Kruskal Wallis test (p0.05 or p0.01) - add homogeneity and normality test p-value used (p0.05) in the abstract section. Please add the exact p-value obtained after the statistic analysis (p=.....). Please check the keywords according to the MESH NCBI data base and sort alphabetically. Introduction: Please add your hypothesis. Please add a statement or sentence about whether there are any similar studies that have been done before or not? Or is your study the first study to investigate this topic? Please add the critical or important issue within this study. Please add the reason why only S. mutans was examined in this study. Material and Methods: It would better if you add the detailed protocol or cite the protocol reference. It would better if you add the confirmation of S. mutans colony or the detail of ATCC. It would be better if you add more specific methods than agar disk diffusion test to examine the combination of propolis and GIC inhibit the S. mutans . In this study, the authors performed the Kruskal wallis test. It would be better if the authors also described the Levene's and Shapiro-Wilk test. Results: It would be better to understand and attract the reader if you present the data in the diagrams. Please add the results of the Levene's and Shapiro-Wilk tests . Please indicate whether the difference is significant or not in your graph/diagrams as well, using some symbols (asterisk). Discussion: Discussion of the results is quite comprehensive. In analyzing the results, the authors also show citations from the previous study to support the explanation of these results. The answer to the hypothesis of this study has been included at the beginning of the discussion section. Please mention the limitation(s) of this study in the discussion section. References: The supporting references are inadequate, please add the newest references that support this study. 