 Title : Root mass was not investigated. “Crop” should be mentioned in the title to specify the plant type. Abstract : Needs major modifications. The key information about this study should be clearly provided here, while not previous study results, which can be mentioned in the introduction section. Some redundant words can be deleted in the section, such as “without outliers”, etc. The reader cannot obtain a clear take-home conclusion after reading the abstract. Introduction : What are the relations between applied residue and root mass? Why choose the rotation system to take the study, but not focus on residue amount for same crop? The reasons for conducting such research were not fully and clearly introduced. Methods : Better to give a schematic diagram showing the design and arrangement for treatments, and also the positions for infiltration rate measurements and crop transplanting. How about the relations between mulching, N application and residue applied? More clear presentation about the treatments is needed. How were the residues of rose grass applied back? When was the okra residue incorporated? Determination and analysis: Does the author think that soil moisture in 0-5cm soil layer can reflect the differences among treatments? How can the residue effect be diminished in the sampling? I cannot understand the last two sentences in this section. Results: The first paragraph can be deleted. The last paragraph should be moved to the discussion section. The results in the figures were not fully described. For example, why are the data scattered and those for rose grass bigger than those of Okra? The data in House B were bigger than those in House A? Discussion and conclusions: Some conclusions are arbitrary without direct data evidences, such as “Our data show a positive relationship between…to the underground biomass.” The discussion and conclusion should be obtained based on the experimental results. It lacks a specific and clear conclusion now. Others: The residues in different (N and corn residue application) treatments should be different and these should be considered. Mulching (plastic film or residue) would change soil conditions such as soil temperature and nutrient conditions, and these will affect crop growth and water requirement, while this was overlooked. The simulated lines should be drawn in the figures. How do the authors consider the differences between the two houses? It seems there is no direct relation with soil erosion, especially in the greenhouse, while connected with water transport and use. The writing and presentation need modification to make it more concise and logical. 