This paper describes a new software tool for modelling epithelial dynamics in 2D. The software, called EpiLog, uses a logical framework that assigns discrete values to the model variables. The approach used for specifying the logical rules was previously presented in a paper from the same senior author (Mendes et al 1 ). The paper is well written, and the software is provided in a nice dedicated website, which also includes documentation and additional information. Furthermore, the source code is provided at GitHub. We have a few comments and suggestions regarding both the methodological approach and the software implementation: In regard to the method: 1) It is stated that the published method can only handle up to a dozen cells. However, the graphical interface seems to describe more. Maybe the authors could elaborate on the limitations of the tool, as well as on its performance for different types of problems. 2) It is not totally clear whether the approach used in this paper is exactly the same as the one published in (Mendes et al 1 ). If it is not, and if there is no other published paper describing the method, an upgraded methods paper could be of interest. On the other hand, if there is another publication describing the method, it should be cited in the paper. It is also unclear if the method has been previously validated in epithelium (hexagonal) case. The authors may want to clarify these points in a revised version. 3) We are aware that, being a software tool article, the present paper is probably not the best place for extended discussions about biological aspects. The following points may therefore be considered as suggestions for the content of an upgraded paper as described in the previous paragraph. Of course, they would also be welcome additions to an extended version of the present paper, if the authors deem them appropriate to address: 3.1) It may be useful to describe how to define a new (toy) model and a grid from scratch. 3.2) What type of cues/signals are considered? 3.3) A real case study would make it easier to follow the pipeline. 3.4) Some additional biological explanation or motivation of potential applications might make the paper more attractive. In regard to the software: 1) We tested EpiLog in Windows. We managed to load and simulate the Drosophila "Eggshell Patterning", but the software reported warnings/errors. Are these relevant? 