This paper introduces a simple approach to data integration that can assist bioinformatics researchers. The RESTful API is easy-to-use and allows gene-centric linking of information from a very large numbers of data sources. We recommend the following revisions: Scope The authors rightly present data integration as a key challenge in bioinformatics (Abstract), and present their work as aiming to solve this problem. However, data integration is a much deeper problem than just data aggregation. Literature review The authors might mention earlier link-based aggregators, e.g. BioMOBY. Gene centricity A gene-centric approach is appropriate for some organisms (notably bacteria and archaea) and problems, but many questions in eukaryote systems biology require a transcript-centric approach. The authors might mention this (significant) limitation. Aliases and catching errors AOF2 is an alias for KDM1A. A search for KDM1A works fine. A search for AOF2 using the search box on the website or using http://link.g-language.org/AOF2 returns a blank page with no error message. A search using http://link.g-language.org/AOF2_HUMAN gives an inappropriate error message (contact root@localhost). The article should describe whether and how the system tries to deal with gene aliases, and appropriate feedback should be given to the user when no results are found. Website G-Links appears to be an extension of the G-language Project. Having the G-Links homepage within the G-language Project wiki is confusing, as menu-items on the left are relevant to the latter. We also suggest that the Quick Star should be near the top of the page to facilitate ease of use. Comments on current Semantic Web technologies The last sentence of the second paragraph of the Introduction states that with current Semantic Web technologies, cross-domain queries require extensive reasoning or manual curation of ontologies. This is not an accurate description of the current state of Semantic Web technologies. The authors might alternatively make reference to the latest version (July 2014) of the Bio2RDF resource, which enables integration and federated queries across 35 datasets, and suggest that a limitation (in comparison to their RESTful API approach) is that the user is required to be familiar with the SPARQL search language. Example use cases The use cases provided in the manuscript are quite simple and dont really demonstrate why the G-Links approach can be more powerful than using (for instance) GeneCards to get an overview of a gene such as BRCA1, or just going to the KEGG website and running a search on . A more comprehensive use case that shows, for example, how easily results from a gene list search in (for instance) TSV format can be programmatically searched to identify common elements for the genes of interest, might better demonstrate the utility of G-Links. Data integration as a current challenge The references given to support the claim that data integration is currently a major challenge for the bioinformatics field are 12 and 6 years old. Several features claimed as advantages for G-Links (linking to multiple databases, retrieving information on genes from multiple organisms, filtering by keywords, extracting by fields) are reasonably common, e.g. in BioGrid or Cytoscape. Licensing If any linked resources have license rights that need to be adhered to, this information should be brought to the users attention, perhaps using a note on the G-Links website. Constraints For best practice, the system should meet the constraints for RESTful stateless, cacheable and so on; these might be described briefly in the paper. The authors might mention that multiple URIs can point to the same resource. A resource can exist in different versions; does the system capture and display the version from which information has been captured? Finally, we recommend that the authors present a Semantic Web-specific example for their statement that G-links can be used programmatically as text data, from Semantic Web services...