This is a very important and ambitious study that focuses on some of the known obstacles of implementing screening and brief intervention in primary health care (PHC). However, whereas some of the inherent problems in the procedures are being tested, others remain untouched. For example, it is quite unclear how the authors intend to maintain the interventions after the project ends. It is well-known that you can bring GPs to test SBI interventions but once the projects are over, they return to practice as before. Below are a few points that came to mind reading the article. It is quite unclear what the focus of this study is because the primary outcome is basically a rise in patients screened and given advice. It should be evident that this number will go up in participating PHCs because of the intervention per se??? The process evaluation is definitely a strength of this study because it is comprehensive with a very clear framework of understanding. It is difficult to see the advantage of involving three different countries with only one intervention city and one control city from each. As pointed out, there are differences among the participating countries that will have to be accounted for and that will limit the robustness of the results. Furthermore, it is unclear how the participating cities will be chosen and how the intervention city will be chosen. Including three different “cultures” with only one intervention and one control site for each does not seem to be a robust design. There should be more considerations about the differences among the participating countries and the impact on the final outcomes. This is a very important study that focuses on some of the known obstacles of implementing screening and brief intervention in primary health care (PHC). However, whereas some of the inherent problems in the procedures are being tested, others remain untouched. For example, it is quite unclear how the authors intend to maintain the interventions after the project ends. It is well-known that you can bring GPs to test SBI interventions but once the projects are over, they return to practice as before. 