 This is a clear and well-researched paper on a very timely topic for science communication. I have just a few issues with some of the conclusions reached and with some of the literature represented in the review. So far it is not well studied how and why its users are accessing publications through Sci-Hub. This isn’t necessarily true. The last year has seen a lot of articles pop up in the science communication and library literature about SciHub and the whys and hows of its use, including last year’s widely shared Science article by John Bohannon, which you briefly mention. This statement should be a bit tempered. Speaking of the whys of Sci-Hub, you discuss the founder’s description of how it is done but did not include any discussion from her about why she chose to develop the database. Her main occupation is as a scientist and she chose to develop SciHub because of being unable to access the literature in her field. I think that story is a compelling backdrop to your own research here. Again, Bohannon’s Science article from April 2016 “Who’s downloading pirated papers? EVERYONE,” gets very little mention in your paper. In any case, it certainly warrants a bit more discussion in your work. What did Bohannon do right in his analysis? Wrong? How does your work build on or diverge from his findings? In addition to Bohannon’s work, there have been a number of scholarly communication experts who have explored and written about they hows and whys of Sci-Hub usage, particularly in the library and information science field. I think a review of some of that literature would really help to ground your work. The analyses presented here suggest that Sci-Hub is used for a variety of reasons, by different populations. You argue that your study shows that users use Sci-Hub for a “variety of reasons” but I don’t know that your research really supports that. Certainly you’ve shown what is being accessed and revealed interesting findings in terms of disciplinary, publisher, and publication date distribution, but your results can hardly be said to reveal the underlying motivations of users accessing materials from Sci-Hub. You posit some interesting theories that could explain the numbers you found (lack of access because of lack of well-funded institutional affiliation, etc.), but they are just that: theories. I’d be a bit more cautious in the conclusions you draw from your data, as interesting as they may be. 