The manuscript reports a study in which spatially separated pairs of participants have been measured with EEG simultaneously. One of them was audiovisually stimulated at random times. The hypothesis was tested whether an evoked response related to the stimulation in one participant could be detected in the EEG of the non-stimulated participant. A nonparametrical analysis using bootstrapping analysis showed a positive effect in the alpha frequency range. The manuscript is written clearly and the experiment and analysis seem to be done in a scientific rigor way. However, several questions arose and some additions and changes should be done before full approval of this paper. These are described in the following: This type of experiment was already done and published by various researchers. Almost none of them is mentioned but I think this is important as the study is a kind of replication of previous studies. Especially, as there are experiments that showed an effect in the alpha band which supports your findings. I would suggest to report previous studies of this type in the introduction and shortly report their findings (E.g.by Wackermann, Radin, Hinterberger,). In the introduction the Generalized Quantum Theory is presented as a rational for the hypothesis. I would be very careful with this approach because it is not clear whether this study design can be used to test the WQT and further whether the WQT actually applies to the phenomenon of distant mental interactions even if it is an elegant model. Spoken as a physicist, I do not really see the conditions for entanglement fulfilled because not every subsystem, that has information of another subsystem and shares the idea of interconnectedness behaves as being entangled. Therefore, it seems to be oversimplified to just state that "this relationship constitutes an entangled state". Another problem arises with the non-signal transfer paradigm which in this type of experiment would be violated if we would find replicable correlations of the same type. In such case one should find a different explanation for the effect. Therefore, I suggest instead of claiming the WQT in the introduction, the study should be presented as a replication of previous studies in a slightly different manner, testing an experiential phenomenon reported by many people. Also please state why you were using this type of stimuli. The WQT would probably fit better as an attempt for an explanation of the findings in the discussion or, if used in the introduction with much more care. Why were you focusing on the frequency range between 9-10 Hz? Was this a post-hoc selection? Could you tell the results of the other standard frequencies such as theta, beta,.. bands? it becomes possible to calculate the R(x) array in a number of combinations of pairs equal to: Nt = NC * (NC - 1)/2 = 91. The result can be written using a new array, R(I, X), in which I = 1... 91 and X = 1... 384 are the calculated values. This description remains unclear to me. Could you describe the meaning of the variables and explain the process a bit more? What is the GW6 method? Is it possible to tell something about the localization of your findings as you recorded 14 channels? In the discussion please compare your findings to those of similar studies. 