In the manuscript by Collins L.M. et al., the authors sought to investigate glucocerebrosidase (GCase) activity and autophagic flux in fibroblast derived from Parkinson’s (PD) and Gaucher disease patients (GD). GD is specifically caused by mutations in the GCase gene that drive defective enzymatic activity. Since GCase mutation is the most single commonest genetic risk factor in PD and is associated with poorer prognosis, the authors set to compare PD, GD and PD-GD patient-derived fibroblast for enzymatic activity and autophagic flux. The major point of concern is the physiological relevance of the cell models studied. Stating the obvious, since both PD and GD have neurological components, it would have been more appropriated to reprogram the fibroblasts in iPSCs and then convert these in the relevant cell type to assess GCase activity and autophagy. Unfortunately, this requires a good year of work. Interestingly, the authors show that mutations to the GCase gene affect both enzymatic activity (Figure 1A) and amount of protein in PD/GD (Figure 1E - Maybe also in other GBA context, but the statistical power is too low to discern this aspect). Since the first can be a consequence of the latter, as a mere suggestion, it would be of interest to investigate this aspect in more detail maybe looking at protein stability, although also this goes beyond the aim of the present manuscript. To this point, the authors state in the discussion about the GCase activity in PD/GD “We also found that the impairments are not due to low protein amounts in line with other studies”. As far as this reviewer understand, there is a significant difference between PD/GD and controls as indicated in Figure 1E. Authors may want to clarify this point. Major comments: The most obscure point to this reviewer is the fact that PD/GD fibroblasts carrying homozygous mutation in DBA show reduced enzymatic activity but normal autophagic flux when PD GBA and GD (carrying similar mutations) have abnormal flux. Could the authors elaborate better their considerations to this point in the discussion? The patient-derived cell lines are actually 13 and not 17 since 4 are derived from healthy donor. Please, amend the entire text on this regard. In Figure 1A, multiple bands are visible in the WB. It is not clear which band is accounted for quantification. Please, highlight the quantified band in the figure, if possible. Figure 1F will benefit from a colocalisation plot and quantification. It is not clear how many cells have been recorder for this phenotype. Minor comments: The second column of Table 1 should specify “GBA genotype” in the title, for clarity. Acronyms are first presented in the method session. Since many readers do not take the time to go through the methods, I kindly suggest repeating the acronyms in the main text. Figure 2C is missing legend for the color-coding. Although, is the same as previous figure, a reminder would improve reading. Legend of Figure 1F it may contain text that actually belong to the panel 1E. In Figure 2A, please specify the subtype of LC3 in the legend. The antibody used for LC3 WB usually recognizes both the LC3II and LC3IIb form of the protein. I wonder whether the authors have an explanation for not detecting the LC3II. 