The authors conducted a genome-wide interaction analysis with smoking, alcohol, and vitamin on cleft lip triads. The analysis was based on 1,908 nuclear families from dbGaP database with both genotyping and environmental exposure status. Their results suggested that three SNPs in ANK3 has a PoOxSmoke effect and two SNPs in ARHGEF10 has a PoOxAlcohol effect. The results may provide evidence for identifying interactions between relevant environmental exposures and PoO effects. Totally, this paper was very well written; however, there are some concerns that should be addressed to improve the paper as detailed below: The GWAS data are available in the dbGaP database (the dbGaP accession number: phs000094.v1.p1). Since the imputed data were provided from dbGaP, it is more appropriate to use that data for interaction analysis to find more meaningful results in this study. It seems the author only presented the process on quality control for SNPs, and the process on quality control for individuals should be added in the part of Methods. In the present study, the author focused the q-value rather than p-value, which is more widely accepted as known. It is confused that the cut off of q-value chosen in each interaction analysis on different population is unclear. It is unclear that the cutoff of q-value in each interaction analysis on different population. The author needs to determine a clear threshold for screening, which should be more strict. There are a lot of tables in the article. It is recommended to add the forest plots of the interaction analysis in order to make the results more intuitive. I am not sure if it is appropriate to state ‘After quality control, 341,191 SNPs remained from the original 569,244.’ in Methods section from abstract, because that seems to be part of the result. All the population and analysis were based on nuclear families with cleft lip with/without cleft palate, it is proper to replace ‘cleft lip’ with ‘cleft lip with/without cleft palate’ in the title of this paper. 