The authors described an approach to hetero-coupling of bacterial photosynthetic apparatuses, LH2 and core complex. I think their approach using copper-free Huisgen cyclization is reasonable. Although reaction yields are unfortunately very low, careful and patient chemistry could overcome these problems that they described. I had tried similar hetero-coupling reactions but it could not work well. I appreciate their work because of the descriptions about some trials, e.g., using TCEP/DTT. I like to suggest some points, for which I guess the authors have done experiments described below. SDS-PAGEs may clearly indicate which polypeptides reacted with . Reacted polypeptides (not only hetero-coupling products, but also NHS-SS-biotin adducts, DBCO- and Azide-bearing ones) may provide better MS after RP-HPLC purification. To make sure the attachment and reactivity of DBCO and azide moieties, small molecules bearing azide and DBCO as their reaction counterparts should be useful. It may make clear whether DBCO and azide conjugates remain active. Characterization using fluorescence spectroscopy is expected to see energy transfer from LH2 to cc. It would be very helpful to understand the position of Lys if amino acid sequences of polypeptides of LH2 and cc used are listed. Other comments: In Abstract: “56 individual polypeptides” Where does this number come from? The title is “making dimers”, but in Abstract description “making small oligomer, dimer and trimmers” is inconsistent. Major products seems dimer (heterodimer), so the description should be better to be just “dimer” to remove ambiguity. page 4, 5th paragraph (right column): Explanations for reaction levels are hard to understand. Descriptions “90.4% unlabeled protein” and “94.6% singly labeled protein” are inconsistent. Figure 4: This is one successful result showing the formation of LH2-cc hetero dimer. However, it is unclear what LH2 and cc were used. The authors used carious LH2 and cc from different photosynthetic bacteria. Origin of these complexes should be denoted. 