This is a thoughtful analysis of PATH data to determine an unbiased estimate of the relation between initial e-cigarette use among never cigarette smokers and subsequent cigarette smoking. I particularly like the idea of using W1 predictors of W2 e-cigarette onset to parcel out the over adjustment that could occur if these variables are assessed at the same time. I also liked the multitude of sensitivity analyses that showed it doesn't really matter, for example, how propensity scores are modeled. I see no major weaknesses. However I have a few suggestions. It might not be unreasonable to have a statistician review the analysis. This is a complete case analysis. Given that there are missing data for each individual variable and that there is loss to follow up, the authors need to convince us with some sort of sensitivity analysis that the results are not largely affected by attrition bias. The literature review makes it seem like these are the only authors who have published on gateway effects using PATH data. They need to cite other PATH papers, point out weaknesses in them, and help us understand why this publication is worthy of attention. One worthy of particular attention used a propensity score analysis similar to these authors' W1-W2 analysis 1 One limitation not mentioned is that cigarette smoking onset does not make addicted cigarette smoker. This needs to be mentioned as a limitation. The authors miss some of the many studies that examined the relation between initial use of e-cigarettes and subsequent cigarette smoking. They could fill in that gap by mentioning and citing a meta-analysis conducted by Khouja in Tobacco Control that identified 17 prospective studies 2 . It is worth comparing their best estimate with the combined estimates presented in that meta analysis. Finally, given that there have been so many prospective studies, and all have pointed to a gateway effect, it seems reasonable to conclude that there is one, that is, that use of these devices independently increases risk for subsequent use of cigarettes. I realize that we could continue to quibble about the effect size, but this study does a good job of convincing us that the relative risk is real and that it is substantial, around 3. It seems like it might be an opportunity to also help us understand the population significance of the finding. The authors could do that with this population-based sample (which includes weights) by determining what proportion of the observed cigarette initiation is attributable to the gateway effect using attributable risk methods (risk difference as opposed to risk ratio). They could use the weights to determine the number of new cigarette initiators there were in the US that year attributable to e-cigarette exposure. This would be a real and novel contribution that would help investigators compare the public health consequences to youth with the public health consequences resulting from increased smoking cessation. 