Thank you very much for the opportunity to review this innovative and timely submission. The manuscript is eloquently written and the study protocol comprehensively described; our comments are therefore few and minor. In this article the authors present a study protocol for a randomized control trial in the field of intraoperative clinical decision support. The authors propose to randomize 12,000 patients to either intraoperative clinical decision support or enhanced intraoperative clinical decision support by utilizing a novel Anesthesia Control Tower (ACT) concept. Throughout the article the authors thoroughly present their pragmatic study with adequate details and a thoughtful patient-centric approach. Their identification of the complexity of the anesthetic practice and cognitive requirements is well founded, and their reference to the ICU remote monitoring systems is established. On page 3, paragraph 1, the authors state that “10-40% of patients will experience some sort of postoperative surgical complication”. The citations mostly refer to elderly and/or high-risk surgical patients. Perhaps the authors could consider adding a reference for a general surgical population. On page 4, the authors state the ACT will function only on days with at least 2 anesthesia providers available. Could this introduce bias into the study as on OR days with high volume, or complex cases requiring lower staffing ratios, the availability of staff for the ACT would be less likely? On page 7, paragraph 2, the authors state an anticipated transition in electronic health records. In our experience, implementation of a new record keeping system can increase cognitive load, documentation errors, and lags in data acquisition. Our concern would be a possible compromise of study data. Do the authors have a contingency/transition plan available? On page 8, the authors base the sample size calculation on core temperature measurements. The rest of the manuscript is less specific as to the site of temperature measurement. Will only core temperatures be utilized in this study? On page 9, paragraph 2, the authors propose an innovative educational curriculum. Would the authors consider providing more detail on the implementation and evaluation of this component? In Table 2, the authors describe secondary outcomes. Would it be possible to add an appendix to provide definitions for these parameters or reference NSQIP/STS documents as the source of these definitions? 