 Introduction 1. I would recommend the authors do a final review of the paper to ensure it is free of grammatical errors and typos (e.g., in the first sentence in the introduction, "were" should be "where"). 2. The authors stated: "This discrepancy may be partly explained by the way that the social desirability bias may affect the accuracy of self-reported data pertaining to socially sensitive topics such as sexual norms." I would like to see more elaboration as it pertains to concurrency. 3. The statement regarding the findings of applying C-IAT on Belgium students is great. Since one of the study purposes is to identify the discrepancies between implicit and explicit norms between Belgium and South African participants, I would like to see the authors add their findings on whether there were discrepancies regarding explicit and implicit concurrency norms in their previous Belgium research. Currently, the authors only provide information regarding implicit norms of concurrency among Belgium students. 4. It would be great if the authors would discuss their rationale for comparing South African and Belgium students. 5. Also, it would be beneficial if the authors could provide more justification for the study aims (e.g., why look at shifts and correlations of the norms). 6. Finally, the rationale of looking at college students should also be provided. Is it because they more likely to be sexually active? More likely to engage in concurrency? Or, more likely to at risks of HIV/STIs? Method 1. Information regarding validity and reliability of the measurements used may be needed. 2. The authors mentioned that they recruited participants who were "similar" to participants in the Belgium study for the comparison of implicit and explicit norms. How did the authors determine similarity when recruiting participants in South Africa? Since they are all college students, I am assuming their age might be similar? How about the concentrations/majors? 3. More info regarding sampling may be needed. For example, how many students were approached? What was the refusal rate? 4. The measurements were used to measure implicit and explicit norms. Why would there be incorrect answers? Could the authors provide some examples? Results 1. Some of the numbers stated in the text do not match the tables. For example, the author stated: "Self-reported concurrency behavior was slightly more strongly associated with explicit (r = 0.13 to 0.58) than implicit (r = 0.05 to 0.11) attitudes to concurrency by country." But, in Table 2, it seems that the correlation of explicit and concurrency behavior is 0.08-0.58. The authors might want to review the numbers. Discussion 1. The authors provide great information in that based on the finding, current efforts of targetting high-risk individuals may not be enough. Could the authors provide more information on, specifically, what may be the potential approach to address concurrency, especially targetting implicit attitudes on a population level? 2. In the discussion section, the authors seemed to imply that the findings may apply to population level. However, given the sampling strategy, I am not sure if such argument may be the case. Could the authors provide more evidence or explanation? 