 General comments: This publication highlights an important topic in examining the effectiveness of universities to facilitate the transfer of new technologies into the marketplace. This work also raises awareness to the fact that only a small number of institutions contribute to the vast majority of the total commercialization activity. This is only one of the many disparities found across U.S. institutions, and the work presented here very effectively puts this particular disparity into a broader context. Therefore, this type of research has the potential to be utilized as a way to press for change in the system as a whole. Particularly for this field, a change in the system would require advocating for the implementation of successful practices from high-performing institutions across a higher number of U.S. institutions, so that eventually these technologies can become commonplace in all universities. To this end, I believe it is particularly important to consider how we might provide similar types of resources to U.S. institutions with less of an access to these tools or with fewer number of tools at their disposal as compared to the high-performing institutions in the area of technology transfer. The publication itself is very well-written, with the motivation for pursuing this work and its purpose being very clearly defined. The authors have also very succinctly articulated the gap filled by this work and its overall significance to the field, and the results support the conclusions drawn. Overall, I believe this paper is suitable for publication in its current form. I have just a few suggestions for improvement, or ideas that might be useful to consider if expanding or revising this paper in the future. These are mostly broad recommendations related to whether and how the disparities described here could be reduced across universities. General considerations: I would like to commend the authors for detailing the steps of the commercialization pipeline early in the publication - this is very helpful for those who might not be very familiar with it. Similarly, the explanations of the data analysis parameters, including the Gini coefficient, are very useful in understanding the conclusions drawn from these studies. One suggestion I would have is to move the information from the Supplementary Table 1 into a main table in the publication, to enable the reader to more easily and quickly refer to these concepts in conjunction with reading Figure 1. I also appreciate the fact that the commercialization pipeline allows the authors to answer key questions using relevant data in the AUTM Licensing Survey. Hower, it would be really helpful to also conduct a more in-depth investigation of how each of the universities in the AUTM Licensing Survey measures up in every step of the commercialization pipeline, in order to obtain a view of the national landscape on this issue beyond just the top 25 institutions. While I realize that looking at all 300 universities may be cumbersome and that analyzing the top 25 was a relevant strategy in this case, a more detailed analysis might allow for looking at broader trends that exist across U.S. institutions in the technology transfer area, which could then be utilized to guide future reforms. In terms of the actual reforms, I would also be curious to know more about the types of policies which the authors propose to be implemented in U.S. universities in order to improve the effectiveness of the commercialization pipeline. As part of this question, I recognize the importance mentioning the grassroot student groups who have launched successful programs at MIT and Harvard. Perhaps it would be helpful to suggest how such universities can best share their strategy for success in technology transfer with other universities in the U.S., which could potentially enable the creation of a shared collection of online resources, and/or a network of professionals interested in helping universities improve in this area who would meet regularly to discuss this issue. Given that there are multiple programs described from these two institutions in Table 2, it may be helpful to discuss more about the specifics of these programs, in terms of the similarities and differences (perhaps in a supplementary figure) in order to point out particular elements that would be useful for other universities to utilize and incorporate into a more universal program that could be adopted widely across the U.S. to improve the technology transfer field. Alternatively, are there differences between these programs that could be pointed out in order to determine their suitability for being adopted by other universities as multiple independent programs? I also wonder if there are other additional types of actions that could be undertaken by graduate students and postdocs who might have an interest in this area, or by university administrators who could assist in potentially reducing some of these disparities described here. One area that might be worth exploring in this regard is implementing technology transfer programs in all U.S. universities (perhaps these could be designed by a local technology transfer office) geared towards training both researchers and administrators in this area, in order to facilitate the commercialization of the findings produced by researchers in U.S. institutions. I believe the idea of a third party organization, which is mentioned, could work very well. However, there could be limitations in terms of what universities (or researchers) are willing to share with an outside group, depending on how the agreement terms are formulated. Therefore, it may be useful to also consider other individuals within universities who could be involved in implementing reforms in the technology transfer process from the inside. I also wonder how to ensure that the third party organization will associate with the institutions that are most in need of this partnership, instead of linking to the already high performing institutions, the latter which could in fact ensure their own success. To this end, these agreements would need to be carefully crafted with the interest of both parties in mind. At the same time, multiple parties should contribute to the implementation of such reforms, including those outside the university. Perhaps it would be useful to add into the current Figure 1 some suggestions at every step along the way, indicating where improvements could be made and by whom (i.e. which stakeholder). This broader analysis might also help with further discussions of the types of changes which should be implemented in universities in order to ensure that all U.S. institutions have the same resources and as the currently high-performing institutions in technology transfer, therefore aiming to reduce some of these disparities and create a more uniform way to analyze this problem across the board. In addition, as multiple groups are likely to be involved in this process, perhaps it would also be useful to expand this discussion by adding in more details on the efforts already undertaken successfully by each of these groups which could help reduced these disparities. For example this could include direct links to such efforts, with clear instructions and concrete actions which other universities could easily adopt and implement locally. Specific suggestions: Overall, the motivation for each part of the study and the actual results are very clearly explained and are insightful. I was particularly intrigued by the findings in Table 1, and the idea that performance of institutions in such these areas can be measured. This is encouraging to see in thinking more broadly about the variables that can be quantified from U.S. institutions. One suggestion is that it may be useful, after each result, or perhaps in the discussion section, to include further explanations of how each of these findings contributes to our broader understanding of academic technology transfer. This might also lead to an obvious list of particular weakness in the commercialization pipeline that must be corrected across institutions. Getting more into the data itself, with respect to Table 1, I understand the top performing institutions are ranked as high performing in all of the presented categories. However, there are a few institutions in the list that I would consider high performing academically, but which have been indicated to perform in a variable manner in some of the particular areas examined within the commercialization pipeline. I am wondering whether more discussion on these “gray area” institutions could be added, and how their particular performance in a given area translates to benefiting the economy itself. For example, does high performance in certain variables lead to benefits in the local economy, and is high performance in all of these areas required to benefit the U.S. economy as a whole, or is this a more mixed population? Along these lines, in thinking about the differences in available resources for technology transfer between U.S. universities, I also wonder if it is possible to perform a type of analysis that would take into account this difference and measure performance in a way that is dependent upon the available resources. For example, a particular university may be considered successful overall for their local area given the limited amount of resources, depending on how this analysis is performed and analyzed. However, if we only consider universities that are high performing overall in all categories, it may be more difficult to analyze the individual success of those institutions who only show high performance in certain areas. Overall, I believe Table 2 contains a wealth of information that could be further analyzed and discussed to draw additional conclusions from the data presented here, including potentially by examining the entire dataset of 300 institutions, which could add another layer of depth and complexity to these findings. The authors also mentioned that this analysis was performed using 2010-2014 AUTM Licensing Survey data. As this survey data is being reported every year, it may be interesting in the future to expand beyond this timeframe and examine more general trends in the factors presented here over a longer period of time (for example in the last 10 years). That kind of analysis could also provide more insights into the landscape of technology transfer as a whole, and highlight particular recommendations that could be made (or maybe have already been made) to improve the technology transfer system in the U.S. Finally, if available, obtaining and sharing the raw data from the Survey itself may also allow other individuals to perform their own additional analyses of interest. 