The manuscript by Ramathan and colleague describes the fluid administration in patients hospitalized for dengue with warning signs (DWS) and evaluate the characteristics related to the amount of fluid received. The important aspect of this work in the “real world” setting where close monitoring of all dengue cases by medical staff may be less than optimum and the patients and relatives play important roles in the primary intervention, namely fluid administration. Although the manuscript addresses an important issue, there are a number of problems in the methodologies and interpretations. The number of cases included in this report is rather small and the enrolment criteria included those that are not true warning signs. These include co-morbidity such as pregnancy, alcoholism, and social reasons. It is not clear how many of cases were enrolled based on these criteria. Further, definitions of severe dengue in this manuscript are different to those according to the WHO 2009 classification and have been expanded to include: a 20% increase in hematocrit reading, at least 3 fold increase in transaminase or CPK levels. The expanded definitions for warning signs and severe dengue in this manuscript may cause confusions to readers and limit the generalizability of the findings in this report. Although detailed information regarding staffing of the medical wards was provided this does not clearly convey the measurable indicators of work load and man power utilized for patient care. Measurable indicators such as the ratio of cases to medical and nursing staffs should provide a clearer picture. Tachycardia was used as an indicator of compensated shock. Tachycardia itself can occur from other reasons including fever, anxiety and discomfort that are not related to volume status. It is not clear whether all cases with tachycardia had been tested for postural hypotension before assigning them as severe. It is notable that the average amounts of fluid received by dengue cases in this study were substantially more than previously reported. A manuscript from Kalaratne et aI 1 was referenced to indicate fluid requirement comparable to this study. Upon reviewing this reference, the amount of fluid administered in DF and DHF cases was approximately 3000 ml per day, which is significantly less than the amount given in this current work. Although there were no report of respiratory complications such as pulmonary edema in this series, careful administration of fluid must be exercised to avoid fluid overload and respiratory complications. This also calls into question the accuracy of the estimated amount of fluid in this study. 