The article links the 100 priorities for AMLO’s government to the SDG and the human and governmental security components. The idea is interesting and I think it has potential for a good quality especially one year after AMLO started as president. However, the authors should think carefully what is the aim of the paper: is it really linking to the SDG? Then frame your results in this approach. I give detailed comments below. Title: I do not understand what does “ don’t stand for tacos ” mean in the context of the paper. It should be clear for the reader, so better explain it in the paper or change the title. Introduction: There is not a literature review. You must show what studies have been done about “human and government security” with the human security framework, and with other approaches. Use other studies with similar research aims. Why do you link them with the SDG? (The answer could be obvious, but you need to clarify it in your introduction). What is the aim and research question of your study? It should not only be about linking the policies with the SDG, what you want to say? What do you want to question? Methods: You use the “Human Security Framework”, but you do not describe what it is. Your reference of that framework is a 2-page-link of the “Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 10 September 2012”. There is no framework explained here. Please give a clear description of what it is and how you decide that each of the 100 policy priorities is linked to each component of the national and human security; as well as for the SDG. Results: Figure 1: It is a very nice figure. In the subsidies section: you mention: “450 tons of fertilizer per hectare, for up to three hectares per participant.” Check this value, this is enormous. Please check the units. Also in this section. Could you elaborate more on “the rules of operation for loss of soil fertility and excessive use of fertilizer”? First it was mentioned that use of “subsidies for fertilizer” were to “prevent soil degradation”. How are they specifying that will be done “depending on the region”? In the animal protein for the people: Why bees? There are no proteins in honey. Who will receive these loans for increasing livestock heads? Discussion: 2 nd paragraph you mention that “In fact, the harvest from most of these small production units … have communal rights” but you do not elaborate why having communal land is a reason to not bear the costs. About the discussion on the fertilizer policies, in the results you mention that it has to be “depending on the region”. The problem with the fertilizer use is the overuse or misuse of them. So the policy should be done with a local-specific recommendation of what is needed. And indeed, as you mention, promote other practices to reduce soil degradation and erosion. Describe what is the Tosepan cooperative. About the livestock policies, cite the journalist that mentioned that animals have been eaten and not used for reproduction. Mention that “foment a la agricultura” is a program or a policy (same for the others), and translate it to English. In this respect, maybe you can add them in Table 1. That is easier to refer to. The paragraph of “fomento a la agricultura” is not clear, you describe a lot about the hurricanes, but not very related with agricultural impacts or insurances, or what has been done in risk management. Also you mention a “First” and not a second etc. Check this sentence and make it relevant for the discussion. In the discussion, you do not compare to any existing literature doing similar analysis of human or governmental security, or about policies related with SDG. So, this looks more like an essay than a scientific article. I think your paper has a strong potential and is very interesting but make it stronger. The last suggestion for the discussion: you give clear suggestions about the fertilizer policy, could you give specific suggestion to the other policies that you discuss? Conclusion and discussion: You do not discuss anything about the SDG. It seems like it was added up by force. You only discuss the components of human and government security. So think if the SDG are what you aim to discuss or not. If you do so, then put all your introduction and discussion in this framework. Finally, AMLO has been president for a year. Which of these policies have happened or started to take place? Is there something different? Or a preference to one of the components of your Figure 1? 