This publication is not a report on the results of a clinical or a basic scientific study. Its an opinion article by the category. We do not have to expect proof of hypotheses, new findings, or innovation. However, we get the logically well-founded opinion of an author, who has been deeply involved in the topic of interstitial cystitis for more than three decades. She points out two challenging, yet not wholly cleared fields of the etiopathogenesis of IC/BPS: namely the role of mastocytosis and the possible presence of unidentified "bacteria or fungi attached to the cells”. Much research was performed worldwide, and many publications are available regarding these two suggested topics, but no conclusion could be drawn. This and the newly available sophisticated lab techniques make still sense to revive these research works. Yet I think, there are a series of other (maybe even more compelling) research topics: to define the role of microbiome in IC/BPS, to develop more objective and non-invasive diagnostic tools, to find the most efficacious composition of the bladder cocktails, to reduce the costs and invasiveness of the IC/BPS therapy, to work out a unified long-term follow-up system of the patients’ condition, etc. I agree entirely with the author on the importance of future cooperation with other specialities of medicine like "gastroenterology, microbiology, infectious disease, and mast cell specialists” as it is mentioned, but also with gynaecologists, pharmacologists, dietetics, physiotherapists, psychologists, etc. There is an evident need for fruitful interactive teamwork, yet it is doubtless for the majority of researchers dealing with IC/BPS, that a well-functioning, complete team is nowadays rather a dream than reality. Everybody knows that certain negative tendencies are setting back the optimal flow of the desired research work. Basic research is less attractive for the younger generation of urologists than laparoscopy, robotics, radical tumour-surgery, infectiology, etc. In summary, I can state that the thoughts of the author are worth to be considered. She does not want to propose a complete program for IC/BPS research, but even in this limited extent, her opinion article is enormously essential to raise the awareness and to direct the attention of the society to this disease. Therefore, I definitely support this article to be indexed. 