 Abstract Provide N, number of children sampled. Clearance zones read in what units of measurements? Results – This need to be tailored as per the objective of the manuscript: patterns of Streptococcus pneumoniae among PCV-10 vaccinated and unvaccinated children ≤5 years old at Gertrude's Children’s Hospital. However, the results are written focusing on day care centres. Key words – italicise scientific names. Introduction Paragraph 1- Repetition of globally and worldwide in the same sentence. The focus of this paragraph need to be antimicrobial resistance. Paragraph 2 - Rewrite to introduce Streptococcus pneumonia as the causative agent of pneumococcal disease. Paragraph 3 – Should focus briefly on the mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance. Paragraph 4 – The problem and uniqueness of the study. Methods This was a descriptive cross-sectional study conducted among children attending Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital (GCH) in Nairobi. Ethical statement: This was obtained and approved from ….. “not given…”. This statement need to be rewritten to reflect: Written consent was sought from each child guardian/parent with each consent form indicating clearly the study purpose, any anticipated consequences of the research, the anticipated uses of the data, possible benefits of the study and possible harm, confidentiality of the data and the option to withdraw their children participation at any given time. Study location: Provide reference for Joint Commission International (JCA). SPSS version 22 – source, city, state? Results Confirm if the 4 kids were smokers, and if smokers what was the criteria used. Consume antibiotics does not sound medically – better word to use is take antibiotics. Have headings for the several parts of the results focusing on: Socio-Demographic characteristics – a brief summary (Table 1). Antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of Streptococcus pneumoniae among PCV-10 vaccinated children ≤5 years (N =?) by selected antibiotic agents. Table 3 need to be split to show vaccinated children, then describe the results in text. Antimicrobial susceptibility patterns of Streptococcus pneumoniae among PCV-10 unvaccinated children ≤5 years (N=?) by selected antibiotic agents. Table 3 need to be split to show unvaccinated children, then describe the results in text. Risk factors and susceptibility patterns of vaccinated children by selected antibiotic agents. Risk factors and susceptibility patterns of unvaccinated children by selected antibiotic agents. 