The author has changed the manuscript according to the recommendation of one reviewer. This has improved the quality of the paper, however, I am still missing the most important data needed for survival analysis of patients with peritoneal metastases: completeness of cytoreduction and the amount of tumor expressed by the Peritoneal Cancer Index. There are many factors that also may play a role. The whole group was in the learning curve and during in this time, oncological results are poorer, as we know by now. The median survival of 23 months was a good as the in the Verwaals trial, however, this trial was performed many years before, still in the 5FU mono-therapy era. The average maximal temperature of 40.5 C was rater moderate. In patients with higher AUC, this may be also related to the perfusion conditions, e.g. extended resection and ascites preoperatively, more peritoneal cavity and increased presentation to heat - but also higher morbidity and longer ICU stay. The Figure 13 is confusing. First, male and female have different survival in colorectal cancer, this is not new. Second, we have no information if the patients of same gender were matched pair, in particular with regard to completeness of cytoreduction and PCI. Only this way we could judge upon the role of hyperthermia. I agree that prospective randomized trials are needed, to analyze the impact of hyperthermia alone in this setting. However, we first have to wait for the final results of the Prodige 7 trial to realize if hyperthermia + i.p. chemotherapy influence the prognosis the way many surgical oncologists believe now, based on the results of several patient series. The next step would be to randomize only hyperthermia, if the study shows an efficacy of HIPEC with regard to survival. Nevertheless hyperthermia was beneficial in many cancer treatment strategies and we know that the level of hyperthermia is important for the outcome. As required, the author may find some interesting ideas in the paper called "Hyperthermia adds to chemotherapy" written by Issels et al in Eur J Cancer 2008, 44:2456-2554. So, yes the manuscript may stimulate to question the role of hyperthermia, however, the analysis have major deficits regarding the survival analysis and the reader can only speculate upon different effects. A bit unusual for me was the fact that the supervisor dissociated himself from any conclusions.