This paper provides an overview of the concept of activity cliffs in structure-activity relationships and provides a number of examples of how the technique can be applied in a drug discovery setting. Activity cliffs can provide a means of better understanding the relationships between chemical structure and biological activity, as well as identifying regions of a molecule that are critical to activity. The review is directed toward the non-expert and should provide an adequate background for those unfamiliar with the topic. Those familiar with activity cliffs may want to consult more specialized reviews written by the same authors. This review is well-written, easy to follow, and provides many key references for those who would like to learn more about the topic. The authors’ breakdown of the activity cliff concept into components will be helpful for those unfamiliar with the topic. It may be useful to point out that utilizing log differences in activity can make activity cliff scores more intuitive to chemists and biologists. Those with a limited knowledge of chemoinformatics will appreciate the discussion of fingerprint similarity. However, a figure might make these concepts even more clear. The authors' point out that " calculated fingerprint Tc values are often difficult to interpret from a medicinal chemistry point of view ". In my experience, Tanimoto similarity typically makes sense, this sentence might be better as " calculated fingerprint Tc values are *sometimes* difficult to interpret ". The authors mention matched molecular pairs (MMP) as a means of expressing molecular similarity. In addition to references 12 and 13, it would be useful to include what I consider to be the seminal paper on matched molecular pairs. Leach, A. G.; Jones, H. D.; Cosgrove, D. A.; Kenny, P. W.; Ruston,L.; MacFaul, P.; Wood, M.; Colclough, N.; Law, L. Matched Molecular Pairs as a Guide in the Optimization of Pharmaceutical Properties; A Study of Aqueous Solubility, Plasma Protein Binding and Oral Exposure. J. Med. Chem. 2006, 49, 6672–6682. As chemists and biologists pursue more complex targets, it is necessary to increase the sophistication of our SAR analysis. I appreciate the fact that the authors point out how activity cliffs can also be used to examine multi-target activity relationships and links between sometimes-distant functional groups. I agree with the authors' assessment that the activity cliff concept is underutilized in medicinal chemistry. Hopefully with the introduction of robust commercial software tools for the identification and exploitation of activity cliffs, the technique will be more widely used. This review provides and excellent introduction to activity cliffs for those unfamiliar with the method. The paper is well referenced and will hopefully inspire a new group of users to continue to advance the method.