I commend the author for carrying out this important study and a very interesting study premise. However, there are a few points that need to be addressed. Major comments: Introduction: The entire second paragraph is irrelevant to the current study. Most of the literature cited in the second paragraph is about flu surveillance activity based on objective hospital data such as hospital deaths, pharmacy use, confirmatory laboratory test. Authors should look for literature about social media use or other similar findings to justify their study. Citation 10 and 11 are appropriate. This paragraph does not support the problem at hand nor justify the study premise. Method: The author has written this aim in the introduction, "we aim to assess the AAS for influenza related articles and its relation to the influenza season in USA. Moreover, we will assess the top articles and journals publishing about influenza in terms of attention they brought.". Methods provided can justify the second objective but not the first one. Authors need to carry out sensitivity analysis to correlate AAS score and flu vaccine. For example, CDC releases weekly data about flu activity, author can show the correlation of that particular week with AAS score. In the current method, the author can state that this is a descriptive study of AAS during the flu season in the last couple of years. Author can not fulfill the first objective without sensitivity analysis and correlation with flu activity. Results: This entire paragraph should be in the method section, "We observed regular monthly mentions of the research output only after January 2012, thus we only included mentions from January 2012 and on. We filtered the search for US mentions only. We collected US mentions of influenza related articles in each month in the years from 2012 to 2018, and we then calculated the average AAS score for each month. This is shown in Table 1 ." Basically, author is describing what they did for the study. I am not sure Table 1 is necessary. You can add standard deviation of table 1 in Figure 1. It is a duplication of information. I have trouble understanding results, particularly this section. "As shown in Figure 1 , there are three peaks for the AAS; the highest is observed in February with a mean AAS of 1076.5 (614.6), the second peak is in October with a mean AAS of 831.4 (441.9), and the third is in June with a mean AAS of 586.2 (271.1)." What do authors mean by "peak"? As far as I can see from Figure 1, the mean AAS score was highest in February, January, October, September, December in that order. Why the author stated that the second peak was in October and then 3rd peak was in June. It seems figure 1 and the reported result are not correlating. What does "peak" mean? Please clarify. It seems authors trying to fit their data with CDC surveillance data. Author has mentioned this in Method, " We filtered influenza mentions for the USA as a country, to correlate with influenza frequency detected by the CDC , then we measured the AAS for each month in the period from 2012 to 2018, we then calculated the average AAS for each month." The cited material here showed that flu activity peaked in February and there is minimal to no activity in April, May, and rest of the summer. If the author is stating that their findings help for flu activity surveillance then accordingly their AAS score should be minimal during those months but instead, the author reported "peak" in June. It is not surprising to see higher AAS during flu season in US. The bottom line is "study findings are overstated." The objective and conclusion of the study are not supported by methods use and reported results, respectively. I would advise authors to turn it around and report this study as a descriptive study of AAS during flu seasons. Based on the method and results, it is difficult to justify that author's findings will help CDC and/or other surveillance agency to monitor flu activity. For that, authors need 1) to do sensitivity analysis using the number of articles published each year or proceeding years and correlate AAS score (increasing or decreasing) with weekly flu activity data, 2) to choose denominator such as the number of articles published preceding years or something like that rather than just mean AAS score. They need to think out of the box for this, 3) finally, validation of the findings. Discussion: Again, the author mention other surveillance studies but they have mostly reported pharmacy data, hospital, ED visits, and lab data. This should change according to method and results. Authors need to make major revisions to the article before it can be accepted for publication. 