The authors of this paper set out to identify antibodies that can be used to identify particular subtypes of GABAergic neurons within the mouse hippocampus. They explain that many of the antibodies that they have tested for this purpose do not seem to work, and they present data for those antibodies that they did find to be useful for this purpose. This article could therefore save readers a lot of wasted effort and money in identifying useful antibodies for their own studies in this area. The article starts with a nice overview of the different subtypes of GABAergic neurons and the markers that are commonly used to characterise them. I am not an expert in this area so I cannot review the accuracy of the information, but I did find it to be concise and useful introduction. There are a few issues that could be addressed to improve the results section of the article. Figure legends should explain what "unspecific staining" refers to. Does this mean secondary only control? If so then this form of labelling could be misleading as non-specific binding of the primary antibody will not be picked up by a secondary-antibody-only control. Why are there no Hoechst positive cells in some of the unspecific staining panels? The evidence that these antibodies are specific to particular subtypes of neurons comes mainly from the observation that their staining pattern is restricted to the expected regions of the hippocampus. However the figures as presented do not make this clear. Is it possible to provide a clearer demonstration of these restricted expression domains on hippocampus sections? Perhaps it would be helpful to see an accompanying diagram showing the expected distribution of each marker on these sections? In Fig 3B, the specific staining of antibody mAB354 is barely visible so it is difficult to assess whether there is a real difference between signal and background. The article reports results from immunostaining of the spinal cord, but no figures are presented to support the authors findings. It would be helpful to see these images. General comments: The article is written clearly and concisely, but would benefit from being proof-read for minor grammatical errors.