In this article, the authors address the question of how much alternative splicing can be identified in 16 different human tissues, and how much of the alternative splicing is specific for one or another tissue. To do so, they analyzed 50-bp paired-end sequences from 16 different tissue samples sequenced relatively deeply (ca. 80 million read pairs per tissue sample). The data has been made available by Illumina as the Human Body Map project. Computational analysis was then performed with the programs TopHat and Cufflinks. This type of analysis assembles the reads into a set of transcripts that are compatible with the splicing patterns inferred from reads that are split over multiple exons. Between 23,000–46,000 partial or complete transcript assemblies (“transfrags”) were obtained per tissue. Approximately 5,000–20,000 transfrags per tissue, or 11–45% of the total, were identified as potentially novel splice forms. As the authors note, it is still difficult to assemble complete transcripts from relatively short RNA-seq reads in this way, and they thus make the very reasonable decision to concentrate their further analysis on alternative splicing events that are likely to be valid. Thus, it is easier to analyze the spectrum of exon skipping/inclusion events at a particular exon. In general, the article is well done and will be of interest to those involved with RNA-seq or alternative splicing. One particularly interesting, if not entirely surprising, finding of this study is the fact that the majority of the novel exon insertion events showed a high degree of tissue specificity, thus providing an obvious explanation of why the corresponding exons are not yet in public databases. This suggests that efforts should be spent to characterize the full range of splicing in tissues in order to understand their biology. Comments: It would be useful if the authors could provide more discussion of the current state of the art of transcript identification using RNA-seq reads. In particular, the authors discuss three other transcript assembly programs in the supplement (S6), finding that they identify 50-60% of the isoforms called by Cufflinks. Have the authors performed their downstream analysis using the results of one of these programs? How different would the results be? The authors should try to place their results in the context of many other efforts at identifying novel isoforms from the literature and discuss the relative merits of their approach. It would be useful to have a table with quality metrics for this dataset, e.g., Phred scores, percent of mapable reads etc. - table S1 could be extended for this purpose. Although much of the results deal with exon skipping/insertion events, it would be interesting to hear a little about results for other classes of alternative splicing that can be identified by the authors’ software, e.g. alternative transcription start and termination sites. In the results section, it would help the presentation of the material to provide a brief description of the relative inclusion ratio at this portion of the text and to define what i and j are (i.e., take some of the material from the methods section that explains this). 