The design of these experiments to test the hypothesis that viable spirochetes exist in genital secretions is appropriate. However, the implementation of the experiments, presentation, and interpretation of data is questionable. Culture of B. burgdorferi from secretions: These are not sterile sources, yet there is no mention of contamination with other microbes. The authors should show (supplemental data) staining of secretions and cultures from healthy controls. One would expect some level of background staining. Images shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3 are not specifically detecting spirochetes and are questionable without appropriate controls. The darkfield and silver stain are of very little use, given that of flagellar bundles can forms in body fluid cultures. No positive or negative controls are shown. The straight morphology and varying lengths of that depicted in Figure 1A (and in all of the dataset 1 darkfield samples provided) are inconsistent with B. burgdorferi morphology. Specific staining shown in Fig 2A is more consistent with spirochete morphology and a legitimate detection method (albeit a low quality image). However, the authors indicate in the Methods section that DAPI counterstain was used but no blue staining is apparent. Does this mean that there were no other sources of DNA in the culture (bacteria or cells)? Clearly, there is ample contamination with other bacteria (seen in darkfield images of dataset 1). Concerning immunostaining with the FlaB probe, the methods are not described and no positive or negative control samples are shown. With the exception of Patient 10, none of the silver stained samples resemble spirochetes. This reviewer encourages readers to examine the images provided in supplementary datasets. Concerning the molecular detection, the sequence for the 23mer FlaB DNA probe should be provided, as should evidence of validation with controls. If multiple genes were amplified from cultures, then those sequences should also be provided. Assuming there was a positive control, 98-100% homology cannot distinguish between a legitimate infection and PCR contamination (with introduction of errors from PCR). Sequences from patients 10 and 11 as B. hermsii is misleading, given that they are short, disconnected regions of homology. Given that 16s was used, the entire product should line up. BLAST input was not provided for Patient 12 and the region of homology for patient 13 was only 50 bp (where for patient 1, 6 and 7 it was ~120 bp). In conclusion, this manuscript would be made much clearer if all of the control (positive and negative) data were also included. Validation of the assays employed is unapparent. The paper cited from the Australian Biologics assay indicated PCR detection of Borrelia in patients at a much higher frequency than IgG or IgM immunoblot detection of exposure. This is inconsistent with multiple reports. Furthermore, the PCR primers are listed as so an assessment of specificity cannot be made. Sending blinded samples to an impartial 3rd party for testing using validated assays is recommended.