Johnson et al’s paper describes Query Tabular, a tool for simplifying text manipulation in the Galaxy platform. The paper describes the tool and shows example use cases for proteogenomics, metaproteomics and metabolomics. The Query Tabular tool can create an SQLite database that can then be queried, saving on multiple text manipulation steps. Example workflows are provided for the use cases. I really like that the tool enables a user to create a database easily from text files. The instructions in the Supplementary Material for running the example workflows were easy to follow and all the workflows ran without issue. The tool also installed easily from the toolshed and ran without error using a example provided in the tool help section. Minor suggestions for future revisions: Part of the text is a bit confusing, Query Tabular is referred to as a single tool in most of the text, but then it is also described as “the Query Tabular tools” in the Implementation section. The user needs to know some SQL to use the tool which could be highlighted more. It could perhaps be noted that this tool might provide a way to introduce/teach SQL to Galaxy users, as it enables them to create a database easily without the need to install anything, so they could just focus on learning SQL queries, like the examples provided by Data Carpentry: https://datacarpentry.org/sql-ecology-lesson/ The SQL query is shown for workflow 3 (Figure 4) but not for workflows 1 and 2. While the queries are available within the example workflows, it could be helpful to show them all in the text, especially for users not familiar with SQL. In the workflows described, it’s not always obvious what some of the steps are for (e.g. the Compute step in Figure 2, why there are two Filter sequences by length steps in Figure 3.) Perhaps the generically-named steps in the workflow figure could be changed to have more descriptive names, similar to what some of the steps already have (e.g. “Deduplicate peptides”) And/or perhaps a table could be provided describing what the individual steps are for. For the workflows, while the inputs and outputs are available in the example workflows provided, it could be helpful to provide screenshots in the text showing what the input and outputs for the use cases look like. The metabolomics workflow utilizes a tool called VKMZ that’s described as a tool under development. Would be good to note if the workflow is very specific to this tool or also relevant for other metabolomics analyses. Are there known limits on how big tables can be e.g. are tables with tens/ hundreds of thousands/ millions of rows possible. The workflows are available in the authors’ Galaxy but it could be noted that the tool is available in other public Galaxies (e.g usegalaxy.eu) for people running analyses there. And perhaps the example workflows could be added to the workflows tested there: https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/workflow-testing Would be good to provide a link to the training material that shows further examples and details on how Query Tabular can be used e.g. https://galaxyproject.github.io/training-material/topics/proteomics/tutorials/metaproteomics/tutorial.html 