This manuscript synthesises, reviews and analyses information on shark landings, fishery characteristics, fisheries management and trade in Peru. Production by shark fisheries in Peru has evidently been and continues to be substantial, and there is clearly a need for work such as this that brings together information and identifies knowledge gaps. The manuscript is interesting, well-researched and includes broad-scale and species-specific data from a range of sources including unpublished and government reports. It is a useful addition to the literature provides a good starting point for further research. Although generally well-organised and structured, in parts the manuscript itself reads more like a report. More critical interpretation of the data is required and careful consideration should be given to the information that is presented. Quantitative analyses are carried out to identify statistically significant trends in the landings data and these seem fairly arbitrary and uninformative. A more useful approach would be to spend more time researching what the historical factors causing these trends are (e.g. economic, market, policy, reporting) and explaining them qualitatively. The correlation of catch with ENSO interesting but quite exploratory and I didnt really see how it fits in with the aims of the manuscript. A major limitation of the manuscript is a lack of any measure of fishing effort. In the discussion there is some mention of the total lengths of gillnets used and number of fishing vessels suggesting some information may be available. Even gross statistics such as these could be instructive for understanding trends in the landings data and may be worth presenting. Also, perhaps I didnt read carefully enough, but one thing that still wasnt clear to me after reading is exactly what the Peruvian shark fishery is in the context of the manuscript. Are pelagic species such as blue shark and mako taken as bycatch in pelagic fisheries for tuna/swordfish etc, or are they specifically targeted? Likewise, are Mustelus and Squatina species bycatch in groundfish fisheries, or are they targeted? My interpretation was that the manuscript was describing all records of shark landings from any in Peruvian waters, but maybe I have misinterpreted this completely. I feel there could be more detailed discussion of the legal framework. In addition to the fisheries legislation, are there any other higher-level pieces of environmental legislation that provide any legal protection for sharks? References are made to a spatial closure for angel sharks. Is this in Peru, and are there any other marine parks in Peruvian waters? Are there other management measures (e.g. limited entry) that may have direct/indirect effects on shark landings? 