The major concern is that this seems like a GUI that is doing a lot of different things and thus should be more modular. The authors emphasize the connection to GDC, but many of the features are applicable to any similar dataset. Ideally, each panel would be its own Shiny module (or maybe even a separate package entirely), and expert users and app developers could select specific modules and integrate them with custom modules to create new applications. There is mention of extensibility in the text. Does that rely on the Shiny module system? It would be helpful for the reader to know that if true. The authors actually compare their tool to Galaxy, a highly modular system. GUIs have a tendency to be monolithic; we should resist that in Bioconductor. This package has 181 total dependencies! Another point is that GUIs for exploratory data analysis should not only be useful for novices in a programming language. There are times when a GUI is more convenient than programming, even for an expert programmer. A GUI provides an alternative interface to the command line, thus opening the underlying functionality to other use cases, whether a bench biologist desperate for a way to see the data, or a computational biologist who wants to quickly explore the data visually while implementing a more sophisticated analysis. Why not include the use case / workflow in the publication itself? It's useful to have an archive of that. Some minor points: The abstract mentions a website but does not link to it (until maybe later) The use of the word "advanced" to describe the R users of TCGABiolinks is ambiguous. What exactly do you mean by "advanced"? Later on, advanced appears to be mean anyone who can write simple R code. Maybe just drop the ambiguous adjective? "Gene expression" do not capitalize "Gene" The phrase "specifically those who can comfortably write strings of common R commands" is awkward, especially since R does not really have "commands". Maybe say something like: "Although TCGAbiolinks is accessible to data analysts who are familiar with R programming, ...", although I would phrase it more positively, rather than as deficiency of TCGAbiolinks, which is just playing the role that it is meant to play in a larger framework. "graphics user interface" should be "graphical user interface" "Web Application Framework" - no need to capitalize 