I was very interested to read this article as the investigation and treatment of pelvic congestion syndrome (PCS) and pelvic venous reflux (PVR) is very topical at the moment and is a major area of interest for me. As clinicians seeing these patients, we need good quality research to develop our understanding of this complex collection of signs and symptoms, which may have underlying causes of both venous reflux and/or venous obstruction. I congratulate the authors on their attempt to define their rationale for their approach to this complex condition. However I do have some concerns about version 1 of this paper as it appears at present. I will detail these concerns below but before getting into the detail, there are two main points that need to be addressed. The first is why only 4 cases were presented when the authors state that they have seen 43 such atypical presentations. The second is why the paper concludes that fluoroscopic venography is a gold standard investigation for PCS when this is essentially a case series concentrating on atypical presentations of PCS and is not a study comparing fluoroscopic venography with any other method of diagnosis. As discussed in the review of the cases that they have presented, an alternative strategy might have been more beneficial to patients and reduced the need for invasive venography. To address the points in order as they appear within the version 1 paper. Abstract: The first and most obvious question as outlined above, why would the authors choose 4 cases “at random” from 43 who presented with atypical symptoms for PCS? As we are at the stage of trying to understand PCS, and the symptoms that PCS may cause 1 the authors are missing a valuable opportunity to write up a case series of 43 atypical cases. To write up all 43 and to show trends and common features in these would represent at large series of typical presentations of PCS and would be a very useful contribution to the literature. I cannot understand the rationale to present only 4 at random of 43 cases as such a small sample of the cases (10% of the total) could potentially miss some vital associations in such cases. The authors do not make it clear where the venous reflux/insufficiency was found. They state: “ The four selected patients for this study were all positive for pelvic venous reflux, pelvic venous insufficiency and ovarian/gonadal vein reflux and varicosities.” However I am unclear as to what they mean by this as some of the terms overlap. As written it appears to say that these patients have ovarian/gonadal vein reflux and varicosities, but also says they have “pelvic venous insufficiency” and also “pelvic venous reflux.” These terms are generally used to mean the same thing and, if the authors aren’t using these terms in this way, do they mean other pelvic veins? This needs to be made clearer. The conclusion of the abstract does not fit with the conclusion of the paper. This is addressed in the conclusion section. Introduction: The authors give their opinion as to the validity of fluoroscopic venography without supporting evidence. They state “ We have found that to truly diagnose active pelvic congestion syndrome and treat the patient’s correlating symptomatic disease, the gold standard diagnostic imaging modality is fluoroscopic venography. ” The authors should reference where they have published this finding from studying it appropriately or, if they have not done such a study, they should reference the study they use that does justify this claim. As PCS is difficult to diagnose, for the authors to state that they can “truly diagnose” the condition with venography, there needs to be very good evidence supporting this. If evidence cannot be produced, it should be made clear that this is the authors opinion and even that it may be a widely held opinion, especially in the light of our work with transvaginal duplex ultrasound scanning (TVS) 2 . Our own work suggests that transvaginal duplex ultrasound (TVS) performed with our specific protocol is the gold-standard way of assessing pelvic venous reflux. The authors do not state whether their duplex ultrasound examination was external (transabdominal) or transvaginal: “ After our suspicions were confirmed with duplex sonography revealing ovarian vein reflux and/or pelvic varicosities … ” In the discussion, they do say it can be performed standing and during Valsalva, but as they don’t comment on the imaging of internal iliac veins and their territories, it appears that it is an external trans-abdominal scan. Trans-abdominal duplex ultrasound is not able to see reflux in distal ovarian veins, internal iliac vein tributaries, nor deep varicosities in most normal patients – hence the superiority of TVS over trans-abdominal scanning. As our published research shows that most pelvic vein reflux is in the internal iliac vein tributaries 2 , 3 the authors should note that if their criteria for proceeding to venography is as stated: “ suspicions were confirmed with duplex sonography revealing ovarian vein reflux and/or pelvic varicosities … ” then they are potentially missing some cases too – something they have criticised others for doing by relying on cross-sectional imaging. The authors state that all 4 patients: “ did indeed have advanced pelvic congestion ”. How was this confirmed to be “advanced”. Do they mean there was massive reflux in the relevant pelvic vein? Or that more than one pelvic vein was involved? Or that there were large varicosities? As there is no proven classification for PCS yet, the authors would be better to describe what the hemodynamic abnormalities were, rather than claim that these were “ advanced pelvic congestion ”. The authors cannot make the claim that they do in their statement: “When each patient was treated for their specific disease state in the pelvic congestion syndrome treatment spectrum all symptoms resolved” as in 2 of the 4 cases they present, there were residual symptoms noted at the end of the reported follow-up. (Case 3 and case 4). In view of the shortcomings noted above and also some more to come below, the authors stated aim of: “Our intention is that the documentation of this experience will help other clinicians in their vigilance to rule out pelvic congestion syndrome with fluoroscopic venography before starting patients on a long road to a differential diagnosis” might not be the optimal advice to give to other clinicians. Despite the current conclusion in version 1 of the paper and the authors stated view that fluoroscopic venography is the gold standard for PCS, the cases as presented does not support this protocol when compared to a protocol starting with diagnostic TVS. Case 1: This patient had reflux in left ovarian and bilateral internal iliac veins which is the commonest pattern of reflux 2 , 3 . This diagnosis can be made with one TVS without the need for trans-abdominal duplex followed by invasive diagnostic venography. Even if the case should be made that the diagnostic venogram is also a therapeutic intervention, the protocol and patient pathway as outlined in this report results in neither the doctor nor patient knowing the extent of the intervention (i.e. how many vein needing coil embolization) before the procedure. Also, as the authors have noted that they use the femoral approach for their initial venogram, but a right jugular approach if they subsequently find the right ovarian vein requires treatment, a TVS would give them the information that they need to plan the therapeutic approach, something that their current protocol does not allow for. Case 2: This patient had all 4 territories involved - bilateral ovarian vein (with accessory vein on the left) and bilateral internal iliac vein reflux. The patient had transabdominal duplex (as in the introduction to suggest PCS) 2 venograms to attempt to treat the left ovarian and bilateral internal iliac veins reflux, IVUS to diagnose the right ovarian vein reflux – leading to a third venogram and embolization. If TVS had been used to diagnose the reflux, all 4 veins would have been found to be refluxing on the first diagnostic test and all 4 would have been targeted in the therapeutic venogram for embolization. Case 3: Again, this patient had the most common pattern we have reported of left ovarian vein and bilateral internal iliac veins refluxing 2 , 3 albeit with an accessory left ovarian vein in this case. This patient was somewhat successfully treated with one diagnostic/therapuetic venogram and so there would not be a clear advantage to state a TVS would have changed the course of this treatment. However, it needs to be noted that the symptoms are not fully resolved and the patient is due an IVUS to investigate this residual pain. Case 4: Once again the commonest pattern of left ovarian and bilateral internal iliac vein reflux 2 , 3 where the patient ended up having with 2 venograms and a negative IVUS. They would probably have had only one therapeutic venogram with embolization if diagnosis by TVS had been the primary diagnostic text. Discussion: The authors state that the symptoms of PCS were found in all patients in their series. Do they mean the 4 presented or all of 43 that had atypical symptoms? This is the sort of data that reporting all 43 would have elucidated. The authors quote the incidence figures from a review article by Lopez 4 rather than going to the source data that Lopez quotes. By doing so, they have repeated the inaccuracies that Lopez made in his article. They state: “As many as 15–20% of patients with lower limb varicosities have demonstrated pelvic venous reflux on venogram or duplex ultrasound, with a 30% incidence among those patients with varicosities that have recurred after prior treatment”. However, the sources that Lopez quotes don’t actually give those figures. The first figure given for “patient with lower limb varicosities” was from Marsh’s paper in 2009 3 which only included females and actually gave the figures of approximately 20% of patients having non-saphenous lower leg venous reflux arising from the pelvis and approximately 16% having truncal pelvic vein reflux. Indeed, in men, our recent presentation at the American Venous Forum has shown it is only 3% 5 , and so when copying the figures from Lopez, the wrong impression to prevalence is given as there is no mention of sex. With respect to the quoted “30% incidence among those patients with varicosities that have recurred after prior treatment” , once again this is taken from Lopez where he has not appreciated the data in the source paper 6 . In fact the 30% incidence is related to legs with recurrent varicose veins rather than patients, and this rate was only found in females who have had children. When a smaller number of men were added (group 1 in the study F:M 97:12) this dropped to 25% showing that this is predominantly a female problem, but not exclusively 5 . The authors state as fact what most of us believe that “It is important to remember that PCS affects its patients due to the local compression and consequent irritation and inflammation of organs in proximity to the engorged and swollen plexus of pelvic veins.” However to quote this as a fact requires a reference showing that inflammation has been measured in the veins or surrounding tissues, related to the venous dilation. This becomes very important when considering PCS from obstructive causes rather than reflux, as well as when considering other possible treatment strategies such as anti-inflammatory medication. The authors state that “Findings suggestive of PCS on ultrasound include ovarian veins 6 mm in diameter” and later in the same section “Venography findings include an ovarian vein diameter 5 mm.” However ovarian vein diameter has been shown to be irrelevant in ovarian vein reflux 7 . Therefore the authors should state that this was their protocol and should note that there is now some doubt as to the validity of this measurement. Once again the authors state that “ Diagnostic venograms remain the gold standard in identifying PCS,” which requires evidence or references to good evidence. Unless there is clear proof, then this should be changed to a more accurate statement such as “Diagnostic venograms are believed by many to be the gold standard in identifying PCS,” and the authors should quote the TVS work to inform readers that this might not be the case anymore 2 . The authors also claim that “In all of our patients, pelvic venograms successfully identified the condition.” This is not correct according to their own text. Case 2 required IVUS to diagnose the right ovarian pathology. The authors have written “ … or compression of a left common iliac vein by a right common iliac artery (May-Thurner syndrome) 8 .” This reference is not correct. Reference 8 corresponds to the Marsh paper which looks at prevalence of non-saphenous leg vein reflux and the association with pelvic venous reflux – not May-Thurner syndrome. I am concerned by the statement that “Given the effectiveness and safety of these procedures, our practice recommends aggressive management of patients whose symptoms and venogram findings suggest the presence of PCS.” in that the authors had been including stents as well as coils in the preceding text. In view of some reports now being presented at academic meetings relating to long-term complications of venous stents, principally occlusion by intimal hyperplasia/fibrous tissue and the subsequent need for removal, reconstruction or bypass, the authors may wish to consider this statement carefully. There is good reason to add a cautionary note to this paragraph, particularly as these patients tend to be younger, being pre-menopausal women (as noted by the authors earlier in the discussion). Conclusion: Version 1 concludes: “Our experience has shown us that fluoroscopic venography is the gold standard diagnostic imaging modality providing us with anatomical correlation as well as physiological confirmation of our suspicions. In this specific patient population, a diagnostic venogram will go far in preventing patients with PCS from missing out on effective and low-risk treatment.” The conclusion, as stated currently, does not arise from the information given within this paper. The paper is a case series of four patients, according to the authors chosen at random from 43 possible cases. They have not shown that fluoroscopic venography is a gold standard within this paper. Indeed patients have had to have more than one venography and, in one of the four cases, required IVUS to complete the diagnosis. As was shown multiple times at the end of the last century when colour flow duplex of the leg veins was being compared with venography, refluxing on venography is not necessarily physiological. This is due to the contrast having different physical characteristics than blood and also being injected under pressure hence possibly changing normal flow patterns. Duplex ultrasound, by its very nature, allows observation of flow by reflection of ultrasound from the blood cells, allowing true physiological flow to be seen in real time. It is also perplexing that the final sentence of the abstract, usually regarded as the conclusion statement in the scientific method, concentrates on the resolution of the atypical symptoms after treatment whilst the conclusion of the actual body of the paper tries to persuade the reader that fluoroscopic venography is a gold standard. In reality, the only conclusion that can be gleaned from this very small subset (less than 10%) of the atypical presentations that this group have stated that they have seen, is that the atypical symptoms do appear to be related to PCS as correction of reflux identified on transabdominal ultrasound and then fluoroscopic venography, and in one case IVUS, largely resolved. There is no evidence given to support the claims regarding fluoroscopic venography being a gold standard. References 1. Dos Santos SJ, Whiteley MS: Pelvic congestion syndrome masquerading as osteoarthritis of the hip. SAGE Open Med Case Rep . 2016; 4 : 2050313X16683630 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Whiteley MS, Dos Santos SJ, Harrison CC, Holdstock JM, et al.: Transvaginal duplex ultrasonography appears to be the gold standard investigation for the haemodynamic evaluation of pelvic venous reflux in the ovarian and internal iliac veins in women. Phlebology . 2015; 30 (10): 706-13 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Marsh P, Holdstock J, Harrison C, Smith C, et al.: Pelvic vein reflux in female patients with varicose veins: comparison of incidence between a specialist private vein clinic and the vascular department of a National Health Service District General Hospital. Phlebology . 2009; 24 (3): 108-13 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Lopez AJ: Female Pelvic Vein Embolization: Indications, Techniques, and Outcomes. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol . 2015; 38 (4): 806-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Dabbs E, Santos S, Shiangoli I, Holdstock J, et al.: Male Patterns of Pelvic Venous Reflux can be Investigated with Duplex Ultrasound and Treated with Coil Embolization. Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders . 2017; 5 (1). Publisher Full Text 6. Whiteley AM, Taylor DC, Dos Santos SJ, Whiteley MS: Pelvic venous reflux is a major contributory cause of recurrent varicose veins in more than a quarter of women. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord . 2014; 2 (4): 411-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Dos Santos SJ, Holdstock JM, Harrison CC, Lopez AJ, et al.: Ovarian Vein Diameter Cannot Be Used as an Indicator of Ovarian Venous Reflux. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg . 2015; 49 (1): 90-4 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Whiteley MS. Reviewer Report For: Atypical presentations and treatment variations of pelvic congestion syndrome: A four patient case series [version 1; peer review: 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2906 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11290.r19932 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1#referee-response-19932 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 31 Mar 2017 Andrew Amorosso , New York City Surgical Associates Surgical Group, New York, USA 31 Mar 2017 Author Response Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I ... Continue reading Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I had sent you, your points where so glaringly clear and relevant that I am currently restructuring and rewriting this paper to be more inclusive of all of our valuable work. There is no reason why we shouldn't share all of our experience. I can tell you that I wanted to put this paper out in 2016 and that is why I put it out as a 4 patient case series. I take your suggestions to heart and hope you find the re-write I send in shortly to be more reflective of the type of work we do at our practice. Your point on the conclusion is absolutely spot on and I guess all I can say is I got lost and didn't circle back to check the two out at the end. I am focused on that as piece together version 2. We will have that loaded in the next week or so and I will then eagerly await your input as it is very valuable to us and the patients we treat. Thank you so much for your help. Kind Regards, Andrew Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I had sent you, your points where so glaringly clear and relevant that I am currently restructuring and rewriting this paper to be more inclusive of all of our valuable work. There is no reason why we shouldn't share all of our experience. I can tell you that I wanted to put this paper out in 2016 and that is why I put it out as a 4 patient case series. I take your suggestions to heart and hope you find the re-write I send in shortly to be more reflective of the type of work we do at our practice. Your point on the conclusion is absolutely spot on and I guess all I can say is I got lost and didn't circle back to check the two out at the end. I am focused on that as piece together version 2. We will have that loaded in the next week or so and I will then eagerly await your input as it is very valuable to us and the patients we treat. Thank you so much for your help. Kind Regards, Andrew Competing Interests: No competing interests were declared. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 31 Mar 2017 Andrew Amorosso , New York City Surgical Associates Surgical Group, New York, USA 31 Mar 2017 Author Response Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I ... Continue reading Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I had sent you, your points where so glaringly clear and relevant that I am currently restructuring and rewriting this paper to be more inclusive of all of our valuable work. There is no reason why we shouldn't share all of our experience. I can tell you that I wanted to put this paper out in 2016 and that is why I put it out as a 4 patient case series. I take your suggestions to heart and hope you find the re-write I send in shortly to be more reflective of the type of work we do at our practice. Your point on the conclusion is absolutely spot on and I guess all I can say is I got lost and didn't circle back to check the two out at the end. I am focused on that as piece together version 2. We will have that loaded in the next week or so and I will then eagerly await your input as it is very valuable to us and the patients we treat. Thank you so much for your help. Kind Regards, Andrew Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I had sent you, your points where so glaringly clear and relevant that I am currently restructuring and rewriting this paper to be more inclusive of all of our valuable work. There is no reason why we shouldn't share all of our experience. I can tell you that I wanted to put this paper out in 2016 and that is why I put it out as a 4 patient case series. I take your suggestions to heart and hope you find the re-write I send in shortly to be more reflective of the type of work we do at our practice. Your point on the conclusion is absolutely spot on and I guess all I can say is I got lost and didn't circle back to check the two out at the end. I am focused on that as piece together version 2. We will have that loaded in the next week or so and I will then eagerly await your input as it is very valuable to us and the patients we treat. Thank you so much for your help. Kind Regards, Andrew Competing Interests: No competing interests were declared. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (1) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 22 Dec 2016 Author Response 18 May 2017 Andrew Amorosso 18 May 2017 Author Response As the primary author of this paper I am obliged to disclose to the referees and readers that this paper was based on our experiences however , You should know ... Continue reading As the primary author of this paper I am obliged to disclose to the referees and readers that this paper was based on our experiences however , You should know that I am no longer employed at NYC Surgical Associates. I continue to document my experience in working with the PCS patient population. I believe ovarian vein embolization and pelvic outflow revascularization to be a curative solution to the horrific effects and symptoms caused by the chronic PCS disease state. Currently I am increasing embolization safety and efficacy in these patients by utilization of a vascular plug. I size once, deploy once and achieve rapid embolic effect without the risk of the dreaded coil migration. I hope others see the value added in this algorithm and treatment methodology because the safer we make curative therapy the greater the benefit to the patients we treat. Thank you and may your next case be your best case. Kind Regards, Andrew S Amorosso RT(R)(VI) Endovascular Revascularization and Embolic Expert As the primary author of this paper I am obliged to disclose to the referees and readers that this paper was based on our experiences however , You should know that I am no longer employed at NYC Surgical Associates. I continue to document my experience in working with the PCS patient population. I believe ovarian vein embolization and pelvic outflow revascularization to be a curative solution to the horrific effects and symptoms caused by the chronic PCS disease state. Currently I am increasing embolization safety and efficacy in these patients by utilization of a vascular plug. I size once, deploy once and achieve rapid embolic effect without the risk of the dreaded coil migration. I hope others see the value added in this algorithm and treatment methodology because the safer we make curative therapy the greater the benefit to the patients we treat. Thank you and may your next case be your best case. Kind Regards, Andrew S Amorosso RT(R)(VI) Endovascular Revascularization and Embolic Expert Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Comment ADD YOUR COMMENT keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 Version 1 22 Dec 16 read Mark S. Whiteley , The Whiteley Clinic, Guilford, UK; University of Surrey, Guildford, UK Comments on this article All Comments (1) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Whiteley M. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 20 Feb 2017 | for Version 1 Mark S. Whiteley , The Whiteley Clinic, Guilford, UK; Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey, Guildford, UK 0 Views copyright © 2017 Whiteley M. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Not Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I was very interested to read this article as the investigation and treatment of pelvic congestion syndrome (PCS) and pelvic venous reflux (PVR) is very topical at the moment and is a major area of interest for me. As clinicians seeing these patients, we need good quality research to develop our understanding of this complex collection of signs and symptoms, which may have underlying causes of both venous reflux and/or venous obstruction. I congratulate the authors on their attempt to define their rationale for their approach to this complex condition. However I do have some concerns about version 1 of this paper as it appears at present. I will detail these concerns below but before getting into the detail, there are two main points that need to be addressed. The first is why only 4 cases were presented when the authors state that they have seen 43 such atypical presentations. The second is why the paper concludes that fluoroscopic venography is a gold standard investigation for PCS when this is essentially a case series concentrating on atypical presentations of PCS and is not a study comparing fluoroscopic venography with any other method of diagnosis. As discussed in the review of the cases that they have presented, an alternative strategy might have been more beneficial to patients and reduced the need for invasive venography. To address the points in order as they appear within the version 1 paper. Abstract: The first and most obvious question as outlined above, why would the authors choose 4 cases “at random” from 43 who presented with atypical symptoms for PCS? As we are at the stage of trying to understand PCS, and the symptoms that PCS may cause 1 the authors are missing a valuable opportunity to write up a case series of 43 atypical cases. To write up all 43 and to show trends and common features in these would represent at large series of typical presentations of PCS and would be a very useful contribution to the literature. I cannot understand the rationale to present only 4 at random of 43 cases as such a small sample of the cases (10% of the total) could potentially miss some vital associations in such cases. The authors do not make it clear where the venous reflux/insufficiency was found. They state: “ The four selected patients for this study were all positive for pelvic venous reflux, pelvic venous insufficiency and ovarian/gonadal vein reflux and varicosities.” However I am unclear as to what they mean by this as some of the terms overlap. As written it appears to say that these patients have ovarian/gonadal vein reflux and varicosities, but also says they have “pelvic venous insufficiency” and also “pelvic venous reflux.” These terms are generally used to mean the same thing and, if the authors aren’t using these terms in this way, do they mean other pelvic veins? This needs to be made clearer. The conclusion of the abstract does not fit with the conclusion of the paper. This is addressed in the conclusion section. Introduction: The authors give their opinion as to the validity of fluoroscopic venography without supporting evidence. They state “ We have found that to truly diagnose active pelvic congestion syndrome and treat the patient’s correlating symptomatic disease, the gold standard diagnostic imaging modality is fluoroscopic venography. ” The authors should reference where they have published this finding from studying it appropriately or, if they have not done such a study, they should reference the study they use that does justify this claim. As PCS is difficult to diagnose, for the authors to state that they can “truly diagnose” the condition with venography, there needs to be very good evidence supporting this. If evidence cannot be produced, it should be made clear that this is the authors opinion and even that it may be a widely held opinion, especially in the light of our work with transvaginal duplex ultrasound scanning (TVS) 2 . Our own work suggests that transvaginal duplex ultrasound (TVS) performed with our specific protocol is the gold-standard way of assessing pelvic venous reflux. The authors do not state whether their duplex ultrasound examination was external (transabdominal) or transvaginal: “ After our suspicions were confirmed with duplex sonography revealing ovarian vein reflux and/or pelvic varicosities … ” In the discussion, they do say it can be performed standing and during Valsalva, but as they don’t comment on the imaging of internal iliac veins and their territories, it appears that it is an external trans-abdominal scan. Trans-abdominal duplex ultrasound is not able to see reflux in distal ovarian veins, internal iliac vein tributaries, nor deep varicosities in most normal patients – hence the superiority of TVS over trans-abdominal scanning. As our published research shows that most pelvic vein reflux is in the internal iliac vein tributaries 2 , 3 the authors should note that if their criteria for proceeding to venography is as stated: “ suspicions were confirmed with duplex sonography revealing ovarian vein reflux and/or pelvic varicosities … ” then they are potentially missing some cases too – something they have criticised others for doing by relying on cross-sectional imaging. The authors state that all 4 patients: “ did indeed have advanced pelvic congestion ”. How was this confirmed to be “advanced”. Do they mean there was massive reflux in the relevant pelvic vein? Or that more than one pelvic vein was involved? Or that there were large varicosities? As there is no proven classification for PCS yet, the authors would be better to describe what the hemodynamic abnormalities were, rather than claim that these were “ advanced pelvic congestion ”. The authors cannot make the claim that they do in their statement: “When each patient was treated for their specific disease state in the pelvic congestion syndrome treatment spectrum all symptoms resolved” as in 2 of the 4 cases they present, there were residual symptoms noted at the end of the reported follow-up. (Case 3 and case 4). In view of the shortcomings noted above and also some more to come below, the authors stated aim of: “Our intention is that the documentation of this experience will help other clinicians in their vigilance to rule out pelvic congestion syndrome with fluoroscopic venography before starting patients on a long road to a differential diagnosis” might not be the optimal advice to give to other clinicians. Despite the current conclusion in version 1 of the paper and the authors stated view that fluoroscopic venography is the gold standard for PCS, the cases as presented does not support this protocol when compared to a protocol starting with diagnostic TVS. Case 1: This patient had reflux in left ovarian and bilateral internal iliac veins which is the commonest pattern of reflux 2 , 3 . This diagnosis can be made with one TVS without the need for trans-abdominal duplex followed by invasive diagnostic venography. Even if the case should be made that the diagnostic venogram is also a therapeutic intervention, the protocol and patient pathway as outlined in this report results in neither the doctor nor patient knowing the extent of the intervention (i.e. how many vein needing coil embolization) before the procedure. Also, as the authors have noted that they use the femoral approach for their initial venogram, but a right jugular approach if they subsequently find the right ovarian vein requires treatment, a TVS would give them the information that they need to plan the therapeutic approach, something that their current protocol does not allow for. Case 2: This patient had all 4 territories involved - bilateral ovarian vein (with accessory vein on the left) and bilateral internal iliac vein reflux. The patient had transabdominal duplex (as in the introduction to suggest PCS) 2 venograms to attempt to treat the left ovarian and bilateral internal iliac veins reflux, IVUS to diagnose the right ovarian vein reflux – leading to a third venogram and embolization. If TVS had been used to diagnose the reflux, all 4 veins would have been found to be refluxing on the first diagnostic test and all 4 would have been targeted in the therapeutic venogram for embolization. Case 3: Again, this patient had the most common pattern we have reported of left ovarian vein and bilateral internal iliac veins refluxing 2 , 3 albeit with an accessory left ovarian vein in this case. This patient was somewhat successfully treated with one diagnostic/therapuetic venogram and so there would not be a clear advantage to state a TVS would have changed the course of this treatment. However, it needs to be noted that the symptoms are not fully resolved and the patient is due an IVUS to investigate this residual pain. Case 4: Once again the commonest pattern of left ovarian and bilateral internal iliac vein reflux 2 , 3 where the patient ended up having with 2 venograms and a negative IVUS. They would probably have had only one therapeutic venogram with embolization if diagnosis by TVS had been the primary diagnostic text. Discussion: The authors state that the symptoms of PCS were found in all patients in their series. Do they mean the 4 presented or all of 43 that had atypical symptoms? This is the sort of data that reporting all 43 would have elucidated. The authors quote the incidence figures from a review article by Lopez 4 rather than going to the source data that Lopez quotes. By doing so, they have repeated the inaccuracies that Lopez made in his article. They state: “As many as 15–20% of patients with lower limb varicosities have demonstrated pelvic venous reflux on venogram or duplex ultrasound, with a 30% incidence among those patients with varicosities that have recurred after prior treatment”. However, the sources that Lopez quotes don’t actually give those figures. The first figure given for “patient with lower limb varicosities” was from Marsh’s paper in 2009 3 which only included females and actually gave the figures of approximately 20% of patients having non-saphenous lower leg venous reflux arising from the pelvis and approximately 16% having truncal pelvic vein reflux. Indeed, in men, our recent presentation at the American Venous Forum has shown it is only 3% 5 , and so when copying the figures from Lopez, the wrong impression to prevalence is given as there is no mention of sex. With respect to the quoted “30% incidence among those patients with varicosities that have recurred after prior treatment” , once again this is taken from Lopez where he has not appreciated the data in the source paper 6 . In fact the 30% incidence is related to legs with recurrent varicose veins rather than patients, and this rate was only found in females who have had children. When a smaller number of men were added (group 1 in the study F:M 97:12) this dropped to 25% showing that this is predominantly a female problem, but not exclusively 5 . The authors state as fact what most of us believe that “It is important to remember that PCS affects its patients due to the local compression and consequent irritation and inflammation of organs in proximity to the engorged and swollen plexus of pelvic veins.” However to quote this as a fact requires a reference showing that inflammation has been measured in the veins or surrounding tissues, related to the venous dilation. This becomes very important when considering PCS from obstructive causes rather than reflux, as well as when considering other possible treatment strategies such as anti-inflammatory medication. The authors state that “Findings suggestive of PCS on ultrasound include ovarian veins 6 mm in diameter” and later in the same section “Venography findings include an ovarian vein diameter 5 mm.” However ovarian vein diameter has been shown to be irrelevant in ovarian vein reflux 7 . Therefore the authors should state that this was their protocol and should note that there is now some doubt as to the validity of this measurement. Once again the authors state that “ Diagnostic venograms remain the gold standard in identifying PCS,” which requires evidence or references to good evidence. Unless there is clear proof, then this should be changed to a more accurate statement such as “Diagnostic venograms are believed by many to be the gold standard in identifying PCS,” and the authors should quote the TVS work to inform readers that this might not be the case anymore 2 . The authors also claim that “In all of our patients, pelvic venograms successfully identified the condition.” This is not correct according to their own text. Case 2 required IVUS to diagnose the right ovarian pathology. The authors have written “ … or compression of a left common iliac vein by a right common iliac artery (May-Thurner syndrome) 8 .” This reference is not correct. Reference 8 corresponds to the Marsh paper which looks at prevalence of non-saphenous leg vein reflux and the association with pelvic venous reflux – not May-Thurner syndrome. I am concerned by the statement that “Given the effectiveness and safety of these procedures, our practice recommends aggressive management of patients whose symptoms and venogram findings suggest the presence of PCS.” in that the authors had been including stents as well as coils in the preceding text. In view of some reports now being presented at academic meetings relating to long-term complications of venous stents, principally occlusion by intimal hyperplasia/fibrous tissue and the subsequent need for removal, reconstruction or bypass, the authors may wish to consider this statement carefully. There is good reason to add a cautionary note to this paragraph, particularly as these patients tend to be younger, being pre-menopausal women (as noted by the authors earlier in the discussion). Conclusion: Version 1 concludes: “Our experience has shown us that fluoroscopic venography is the gold standard diagnostic imaging modality providing us with anatomical correlation as well as physiological confirmation of our suspicions. In this specific patient population, a diagnostic venogram will go far in preventing patients with PCS from missing out on effective and low-risk treatment.” The conclusion, as stated currently, does not arise from the information given within this paper. The paper is a case series of four patients, according to the authors chosen at random from 43 possible cases. They have not shown that fluoroscopic venography is a gold standard within this paper. Indeed patients have had to have more than one venography and, in one of the four cases, required IVUS to complete the diagnosis. As was shown multiple times at the end of the last century when colour flow duplex of the leg veins was being compared with venography, refluxing on venography is not necessarily physiological. This is due to the contrast having different physical characteristics than blood and also being injected under pressure hence possibly changing normal flow patterns. Duplex ultrasound, by its very nature, allows observation of flow by reflection of ultrasound from the blood cells, allowing true physiological flow to be seen in real time. It is also perplexing that the final sentence of the abstract, usually regarded as the conclusion statement in the scientific method, concentrates on the resolution of the atypical symptoms after treatment whilst the conclusion of the actual body of the paper tries to persuade the reader that fluoroscopic venography is a gold standard. In reality, the only conclusion that can be gleaned from this very small subset (less than 10%) of the atypical presentations that this group have stated that they have seen, is that the atypical symptoms do appear to be related to PCS as correction of reflux identified on transabdominal ultrasound and then fluoroscopic venography, and in one case IVUS, largely resolved. There is no evidence given to support the claims regarding fluoroscopic venography being a gold standard. References 1. Dos Santos SJ, Whiteley MS: Pelvic congestion syndrome masquerading as osteoarthritis of the hip. SAGE Open Med Case Rep . 2016; 4 : 2050313X16683630 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Whiteley MS, Dos Santos SJ, Harrison CC, Holdstock JM, et al.: Transvaginal duplex ultrasonography appears to be the gold standard investigation for the haemodynamic evaluation of pelvic venous reflux in the ovarian and internal iliac veins in women. Phlebology . 2015; 30 (10): 706-13 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Marsh P, Holdstock J, Harrison C, Smith C, et al.: Pelvic vein reflux in female patients with varicose veins: comparison of incidence between a specialist private vein clinic and the vascular department of a National Health Service District General Hospital. Phlebology . 2009; 24 (3): 108-13 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Lopez AJ: Female Pelvic Vein Embolization: Indications, Techniques, and Outcomes. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol . 2015; 38 (4): 806-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Dabbs E, Santos S, Shiangoli I, Holdstock J, et al.: Male Patterns of Pelvic Venous Reflux can be Investigated with Duplex Ultrasound and Treated with Coil Embolization. Journal of Vascular Surgery: Venous and Lymphatic Disorders . 2017; 5 (1). Publisher Full Text 6. Whiteley AM, Taylor DC, Dos Santos SJ, Whiteley MS: Pelvic venous reflux is a major contributory cause of recurrent varicose veins in more than a quarter of women. J Vasc Surg Venous Lymphat Disord . 2014; 2 (4): 411-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Dos Santos SJ, Holdstock JM, Harrison CC, Lopez AJ, et al.: Ovarian Vein Diameter Cannot Be Used as an Indicator of Ovarian Venous Reflux. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg . 2015; 49 (1): 90-4 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 31 Mar 2017 Andrew Amorosso, New York City Surgical Associates Surgical Group, New York, USA Dr.Whiteley, thank you for taking the time to give such a thorough review of our work. I want to let you know that in addition to the initial response I had sent you, your points where so glaringly clear and relevant that I am currently restructuring and rewriting this paper to be more inclusive of all of our valuable work. There is no reason why we shouldn't share all of our experience. I can tell you that I wanted to put this paper out in 2016 and that is why I put it out as a 4 patient case series. I take your suggestions to heart and hope you find the re-write I send in shortly to be more reflective of the type of work we do at our practice. Your point on the conclusion is absolutely spot on and I guess all I can say is I got lost and didn't circle back to check the two out at the end. I am focused on that as piece together version 2. We will have that loaded in the next week or so and I will then eagerly await your input as it is very valuable to us and the patients we treat. Thank you so much for your help. Kind Regards, Andrew View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were declared. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Whiteley MS. Peer Review Report For: Atypical presentations and treatment variations of pelvic congestion syndrome: A four patient case series [version 1; peer review: 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2906 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11290.r19932) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1#referee-response-19932 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "Atypical presentations and treatment variations...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Greuner D et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906",
 templates : {
 twitter : "Atypical presentations and treatment variations of pelvic congestion.... Greuner D et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2906/v1"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: Atypical presentations and treatment variations of pelvic congestion syndrome: A four patient case series", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Clinical Practice Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: Atypical presentations and treatment variations of pelvic congestion syndrome: A four patient case series", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/10477/11290")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "11290");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "20168": 0,
 "19371": 0,
 "19372": 0,
 "19373": 0,
 "18767": 0,
 "18768": 0,
 "18769": 0,
 "18770": 0,
 "18771": 0,
 "18740": 0,
 "19930": 0,
 "19931": 0,
 "19932": 28,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "cb8ca53c-a546-4126-b18f-2b849d5d29fe";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 