 General comments I agree with the authors that much of the assessment of reintroduction success is focused on the ecological aspects of reintroduction programs, with little attention paid to how humans manage reintroduction programs. I agree also that some of these management aspects can be critical to program success, although I think the authors could have elaborated on this in more detail in the Introduction (Objectives) section. A survey of wildlife practitioners involved in reintroduction programs is therefore a useful addition to the literature. The study employs a fairly basic survey instrument delivered via email. More information on the survey instrument (design, types of questions, justification for questions included etc.) could have been provided, including a copy of the survey published as supporting information. The response rate to the survey was low, and I wonder if this introduced any biases to the results? Finally, the Discussion doesn’t really elaborate on how the trends in the responses might actually impact on the success rate of reintroduction programs. Would greater expertise lead to more success? How much expertise might be needed and in what areas specifically? Would more partnerships with corporate bodies actually improve reintroduction success? Why? Specific comments Objectives : For the sentence ‘ Regardless, they maintain a low success rate, estimated in the past 12 years between 26% and 32% ’ it would be instructive to know how the cited authors measured ‘success rate’. This section could include a more detailed argument regarding why ‘types of leadership’ or ‘styles of management’ are likely to be so important to reintroduction success. Methods : Change ‘ Emails of reintroduction practitioners… ’ to ‘Email addresses of…’ to avoid confusion. ‘ There was no bias in participant selection relating to species, size or length of project, or budget .’ - Were practitioners asked about these things? It would have been instructive to know the spread of responses (e.g. types of species dealt with). Survey design: It would be useful to include more information about survey design including a copy of the actual survey published as supporting information. Additional information could include details of question design and type, and justification for inclusion. Results: Did the low response rate lead to any biases in the results? Task supervision and organizational structure: Please define ‘autonomous’ in this context. Success and progress: Again, a short definition of ‘success’ would be useful here. Was a definition included in the questionnaire or were practitioners just asked something like ‘Was your project successful?’ and just left to self-define the meaning of ‘success’? Discussion A broader discussion of how specific results might influence reintroduction program success would be highly beneficial and help guide future research in this area. 