Note: I am a co-author of the kallisto tool, one of the tools that is used in this pipeline. Colombo et al. describe Arkas, a tool that takes raw RNA-Seq data and produces several different types of downstream analyses. Arkas leverages existing analysis tools (e.g. kallisto and limma) and platforms (Illumina BaseSpace) to create an easy to use, fast, and reproducible pipeline. A very useful (unique?) feature is that it documents software versions and enforces consistent software versions allowing users to see the potential differences with different software versions. This is made explicit in the "Results" section. Having all of these tools together greatly reduces the time to setup analyses and also reduces the complexity for RNA-Seq novices who might have no idea where to start. Arkas makes all of the typical figures one might make in a standard RNA-Seq analysis. It also provides gene-set analyses which are often excluded from other pipelines. In my experience, gluing together analyses from differential expression to gene-set analyses can often be an annoyance due to inconsistencies and annotations and versions of these annotations. Arkas nicely solves this problem. While I think the idea is very good and the tool seems comprehensive, I feel the manuscript needs a bit of work. Here are a few points: - There are a few areas where the scope seems too broad. In general, I feel that the manuscript can be shortened to be more clear as well as more precise. In particular, the Docker section in the discussion is too broad and the role of Arkas seems lost. I strongly recommend shortening this section and discussing the role of Docker in Arkas more clearly. - While the abstract and introduction provide a description of Arkas in RNA-Seq analysis, they do not provide a motivation. It is sort of hinted in several sections in the paper, but it is not explicit. The motivation of building another pipeline should be explicit. - How does this pipeline compare to other pipelines such as Galaxy, DNANexus, etc.? Should probably be noted in the introduction/discussion. - Perhaps I missed it, but the interface of Arkas does not appear to be described. There is a short subsection "Operation" that doesn't describe the type of interface. It appears to be available on Illumina BaseSpace, but does this make it a commandline tool or an online web form style tool? A short description of this interface and possibly supplementary figures (if it is a web form style) should be provided. This is unclear to folks who are not familiar with BaseSpace. - It should be greater emphasized how this tool can be used to reanalyze existing SRA data with relative ease. In my opinion this is a very strong argument as to why one might want a tool like this. Areas that can be shortened: - "Data variance between software versions" can be shortened as some of this is repeated in "Results." - "Complete transcriptomes enrich annotation information..." Specifics of annotations can probably be removed/condensed. It is probably sufficient to say that some are 3x times larger which can change results drastically. - "Docker as a cornerstone of reproducible research" The role of Docker in general can probably be shortened and how Arkas leverages it should be made more clear. More minor points: - A short sentence at the beginning of "Methods" should give an overview of the two-step process. - The Galaxy Project (https://usegalaxy.org/) should probably be cited even though the scope is a bit different. - Figure 1a: "Receiver Operator Characteristic plot" of what? This is stated in the main text, but should also the stated in the figure caption. - Swap Figure 1d and 1c. - It seems like BaseSpace sessions can easily be shared? If so, this is an additional strong point of using BaseSpace in Arkas. Overall, I'm very excited to see this comprehensive tool exist and be described in this paper. 