In this article, the authors describe a protocol for a scoping review of the distribution of serotypes and antimicrobial resistance of Streptococcus pneumoniae in children aged under 5 years in China since the introduction of the 13-valent conjugate pneumococcal vaccine (PCV) in China in 2016. Pneumonia accounts for quite a large number of deaths for children under 5 years old worldwide and Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of the disease. In China, approximately 30,000 children die of pneumonia each year. The introduction of PCV has quite dramatically reduced the impact of the disease in many areas of the world. However, infections by S. pneumoniae are still a problem because of the many serotypes for this bacteria and also because immunization triggers serotype changes. In China, PCVs were introduced quite recently (2008), with only 10% of the children that received the vaccine. Furthermore, there is no systematic surveillance program for pneumococcal diseases. Therefore, the main goal of the protocol described in this study is very timely and will be very useful for researchers and epidemiologists. The article is well written, concise, and with enough precision. The authors focus on the PCV 13-valent which was introduced in China in 2016, and they intend to analyze all the relevant literature published on the subject till February 2020. The criteria defined for the selection of the articles are well described and relevant. The authors intend to use three main databases to conduct their survey, namely PubMed, the China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) and Wanfang Med Online. Review epidemiological data will also be included from the World Health Organization and the China Antimicrobial Surveillance Network (CHINET). I only have a few remarks that could help to improve further the quality of the manuscript: In the methodology section, the authors mention a potential “risk of bias”, but do not elaborate much on that topic. I would suggest explaining what this risk is about and if possible give one or two concrete examples. It seems that a couple of studies have investigated with simulations of the cost-effectiveness of PCV-13 usage in China. See for instance Mo et al. Pediatr. Infect. Dis. J. 2016 PMID 27753771, Tyo et al. Vaccine 2011 PMID 21745516. 1 , 2 I would suggest to lookup for more publications of this type and to include a small paragraph summarizing the results in the introduction. Maybe it would also be useful to include a small paragraph on the serotype distribution in China before the introduction of PCV-13, see Lyu et al. Expert Rev. Vaccines PMID 28745918. 3 