 Introduction The antecedent hypothesis for this work might be summarized in this way: excitatory overstimulation is a homeostatic response to inhibitory overstimulation. What is actually needed is to reduce inhibitory activity (the primary problem) so compensatory excitatory overstimulation is no longer required. Given the widely accepted working model that reduced inhibitory and excessive excitatory neuronal activity contributes to ALS through neuronal excitotoxicity, the hypothesis asks that we look at ALS with new eyes. In this devastating disease for which we have no satisfactory treatment, looking with new eyes is certainly warranted. The current work provides evidence that co-treatment with PENG and hydrocortisone beneficially slows ALS progression, even in ALS patients that did not have syphilis. The current work’s hypothesis might be summarized in this way: PENG helps ALS symptoms because it is a GABA receptor antagonist. Hydrocortisone helps with inflammation also present in ALS. Apart from the limitations of our understanding ALS pathology, the current work opens an array of complexities, including regulatory interneuron networks, inhibitory receptor subtypes, antagonist drug properties and side-effects, neuronal ion channel composition, neuropeptide modulation, central pattern generator function, and neuroinflammation. For example, why tiptoe into GABA antagonism with PENG when more refined and specific inhibitors are available. Or, patient-to-patient variability in blood-brain barrier leakiness could make it difficult to control CNS PENG levels and the probability of seizure induction. Or, should somatostatin-expressing interneuron networks be selected for in our treatment approach? Should studies include cohorts that do not receive hydrocortisone, or only hydrocortisone? Combination drug studies, if anything is to be learned from them, require expensive designs that test each drug separately and the identification of a basis for doses used in the combination, or combinations. The complexity is formidable. But in the end, what is really important is whether PENG plus hydrocortisone actually slows ALS progression, i.e. “does it work?”. Even if we don’t understand why we have an obligation to try what works. The true purpose of understanding the complexities above is to try to design a reliable therapeutic regimen for clinical application. We want the therapy to work predictably and we don’t want it to do harm. The comments and references that I have compiled below are intended to stimulate the process of making the potential therapy safe and predictable. Comments and References: The outcome of homeostatic regulation depends on the complement of ion channels expressed in cells: in some cases, loss of specific ion channels can be compensated; in others, the homeostatic mechanism itself causes pathological function 1 . There may be a need to target restricted GABAergic subpopulations and cell types characterized by distinct laminar location, morphology, axonal projection, and electrophysiological properties 2 . Increasing GABA May Be Helpful The GABA analog Pregabalin increases extracellular GABA by inducing its synthesis and transport. Cacna2d2, the gene encoding the Alpha2delta2 subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs), is a developmental switch that limits axon growth and regeneration. In vivo, Alpha2delta2 pharmacological blockade through Pregabalin administration enhanced axon regeneration in adult mice after spinal cord injury. Since Pregabalin is already an established treatment for a wide range of neurological disorders, targeting Alpha2delta2 may be a novel treatment strategy to promote structural plasticity and regeneration following CNS trauma 3 . Electrophysiological and histological studies support the pathophysiological concept of an impaired inhibitory, namely GABAergic, control of the motoneurons in the cerebral cortex of ALS patients. However, in the prefrontal and temporal cortex of ALS patients the GABA synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) was significantly upregulated 4 . There are reduced levels of GABA in the motor cortex of patients with ALS. Patients with ALS had significantly lower levels of GABA in the motor cortex than did healthy controls. Riluzole-naive patients with ALS had higher levels of glutamate-glutamine than did riluzole-treated patients with ALS or healthy controls 5 , 6 . Increasing Glycinergic Function May Be Helpful The selective loss of inhibitory glycinergic regulation of motoneuron function or glycinergic interneuron degeneration contributes to motoneuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 7 . Anti-glutamate drugs don’t have major disease-modifying effects clinically in ALS. Nevertheless, hyperexcitability of upper and lower motor neurons is a feature of human ALS and transgenic (tg) mouse models of ALS. Motor neuron excitability is modulated by presynaptic glycinergic and GABAergic innervation and postsynaptic glycine and GABA(A) receptors that mediate synaptic inhibition. Inhibitory glycinergic innervation of spinal motor neurons becomes deficient before motor neuron degeneration is evident in G93A-hSOD1 mice. GABAergic innervation of ALS mouse motor neurons and GABA(A) receptor function appear normal. Abnormal synaptic inhibition resulting from dysfunction of interneurons and motor neuron Glycine receptors may participate in ALS pathogenesis 8 . Muscle paralysis during REM sleep requires activation of both GABA and glycine receptors together. Glycine alone doesn’t paralyze the muscles; GABA is also required. To prevent muscle paralysis during REM sleep both types of receptors have to be off. GABA antagonists like bicuculline, metrazol, and flumazenil would remove the GABA effect and reverse paralysis, stimulating muscle movement. In general these drugs produce stimulant and convulsant effects, and are mainly used for counteracting overdoses of sedative drugs. There is no clear way to direct their activity in a specific direction to solve ALS paralysis. GABA interneurons are part of most neuronal networks in the brain and spinal cord. They act to modulate activity through the networks and they do so by monitoring activity level and responding to the level in a way that keeps it within normal limits. They participate in rhythm and pattern generating networks that coordinate many kinds of brain and spinal cord activity, including breathing and movement. GABA loss seems to be less influential than glycine loss. In mice lacking physiological levels of GABA, there are distinct regional changes in motor neuron number and muscle innervation, which appear to be linked to their physiological function and to their rostral-caudal position within the developing spinal cord. For more caudal (lumbar) regions of the spinal cord, the effect of GABA is less influential on motor neuron development compared to that of glycine 9 . GABA(A) and glycine receptors are the major inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors and contribute to many synaptic functions. Gephyrin promotes recruitment of GABA(A) receptors instead of glycine receptors. This mechanism could affect the balance of GABA(A) vs. glycine in ALS 10 . Reduced short interval intracortical inhibition that leads to development of cortical hyperexcitability in ALS represents degeneration of inhibitory cortical circuits, combined with excessive excitation of high threshold excitatory pathways. Neuroprotective strategies aimed at preserving the integrity of intracortical inhibitory circuits, in addition to antagonizing excitatory cortical circuits, may provide novel therapeutic targets in ALS 11 . “A wide range of evidence from clinical, histological, genetic, neurophysiological, neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies, suggests that a loss of central nervous system inhibitory neuronal influence is a contributing factor in ALS pathogenesis. This loss of inhibitory function points intuitively to an 'interneuronopathy', with natural differences in cortical and spinal inhibitory networks reflected in the hitherto unexplained variable compartmentalization of pathology within upper and lower motor neuron populations. An excitotoxic final common pathway might then result from unopposed glutamatergic activity. If correct, therapies aimed specifically at supporting interneuronal function may provide a novel therapeutic strategy.” 12 . Along with GABA and glycine, the coexpressed interneuron neuromodulatory peptides, like somatostatin, VIP, CCK, and parvalbumin have major influences on the network functions and channel expression. Other neuropeptides also contribute to the complexity. α-MSH preserves GAD67 expression and prevents loss of the somatostatin-expressing subtype of GABAergic GAD67+ inhibitory interneurons 13 . GABAergic Interneurons Contribute to Central Pattern Generators Well controlled pharmacologic manipulation of GABAergic networks may be difficult. Central pattern generators are neuronal circuits that when activated can produce rhythmic motor patterns such as walking, breathing, flying, and swimming in the absence of sensory or descending inputs that carry specific timing information 14 . A class of GABAergic sensory neurons contacting the CSF in the vertebrate spinal cord are referred to as CSF-cNs. These cells modulate components of locomotor central pattern generators. CSF-cNs form active GABAergic synapses onto V0-v glutamatergic interneurons, an essential component of locomotor Central Pattern Generators. Spinal GABAergic sensory neurons can tune the excitability of locomotor Central Pattern Generators in a state-dependent manner by projecting onto essential components of the excitatory premotor pool 15 . Motor neurons themselves can control, by retrograde transmission, upstream glutamatergic V2a interneurons that drive locomotion 16 . The lumbar central pattern generator for locomotion selectively modulates the intracellular activity of spinal respiratory neurons engaged in expiration. Medullary respiratory network activity of both thoracolumbar expiratory motor neurons and interneurons is rhythmically modulated with hindlimb ipsilateral flexor locomotor activity. Locomotion and respiration must to be tightly coordinated to reduce muscular interferences and facilitate breathing rate acceleration during exercise 17 . Conclusion The question remains. Can we identify a safer, more predictable, therapeutic regimen than PENG/Hydrocortisone by trying to understand which inhibitory interneuron networks require interventions and which do not? And which specific antagonist (or agonist) drugs would optimize our test of the hypothesis? Can specific peptide neuromodulators contribute to improving the regimen? These considerations do not preclude the importance of carefully testing the PENG/Hydrocortisone regimen itself. The complexity of this task alone is significant. Refinements of the regimen only add complexity, but may make the difference between safe, practical use in ALS and early rejection of the approach. References 1. O'Leary T, Williams AH, Franci A, Marder E: Cell types, network homeostasis, and pathological compensation from a biologically plausible ion channel expression model. Neuron . 2014; 82 (4): 809-21 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. He M, Tucciarone J, Lee S, Nigro MJ, et al.: Strategies and Tools for Combinatorial Targeting of GABAergic Neurons in Mouse Cerebral Cortex. Neuron . 2016; 91 (6): 1228-43 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Tedeschi A, Dupraz S, Laskowski CJ, Xue J, et al.: The Calcium Channel Subunit Alpha2delta2 Suppresses Axon Regeneration in the Adult CNS. Neuron . 2016; 92 (2): 419-434 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Petri S, Kollewe K, Grothe C, Hori A, et al.: GABA(A)-receptor mRNA expression in the prefrontal and temporal cortex of ALS patients. J Neurol Sci . 2006; 250 (1-2): 124-32 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Foerster BR, Pomper MG, Callaghan BC, Petrou M, et al.: An imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis revealed by use of 3-T proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. JAMA Neurol . 2013; 70 (8): 1009-16 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Nieto-Gonzalez JL, Moser J, Lauritzen M, Schmitt-John T, et al.: Reduced GABAergic inhibition explains cortical hyperexcitability in the wobbler mouse model of ALS. Cereb Cortex . 2011; 21 (3): 625-35 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Chang Q, Martin LJ: Glycinergic innervation of motoneurons is deficient in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mice: a quantitative confocal analysis. Am J Pathol . 2009; 174 (2): 574-85 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Martin LJ, Chang Q: Inhibitory synaptic regulation of motoneurons: a new target of disease mechanisms in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Mol Neurobiol . 2012; 45 (1): 30-42 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Fogarty MJ, Smallcombe KL, Yanagawa Y, Obata K, et al.: Genetic deficiency of GABA differentially regulates respiratory and non-respiratory motor neuron development. PLoS One . 2013; 8 (2): e56257 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Maric HM, Kasaragod VB, Hausrat TJ, Kneussel M, et al.: Molecular basis of the alternative recruitment of GABA(A) versus glycine receptors through gephyrin. Nat Commun . 2014; 5 : 5767 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Vucic S, Cheah BC, Kiernan MC: Defining the mechanisms that underlie cortical hyperexcitability in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Exp Neurol . 2009; 220 (1): 177-82 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. Turner MR, Kiernan MC: Does interneuronal dysfunction contribute to neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis?. Amyotroph Lateral Scler . 2012; 13 (3): 245-50 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Ma K, McLaurin J: α-Melanocyte stimulating hormone prevents GABAergic neuronal loss and improves cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease. J Neurosci . 2014; 34 (20): 6736-45 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 14. Marder E, Bucher D: Central pattern generators and the control of rhythmic movements. Current Biology . 2001; 11 (23): R986-R996 Publisher Full Text 15. Fidelin K, Djenoune L, Stokes C, Prendergast A, et al.: State-Dependent Modulation of Locomotion by GABAergic Spinal Sensory Neurons. Curr Biol . 2015; 25 (23): 3035-47 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 16. Song J, Ampatzis K, Björnfors ER, El Manira A: Motor neurons control locomotor circuit function retrogradely via gap junctions. Nature . 2016; 529 (7586): 399-402 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 17. Le Gal JP, Juvin L, Cardoit L, Morin D: Bimodal Respiratory-Locomotor Neurons in the Neonatal Rat Spinal Cord. J Neurosci . 2016; 36 (3): 926-37 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Gill A. Reviewer Report For: Syphilis may be a confounding factor, not a causative agent, in syphilitic ALS [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1904 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10034.r16950 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1904/v1#referee-response-16950 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Gaillard P. Reviewer Report For: Syphilis may be a confounding factor, not a causative agent, in syphilitic ALS [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1904 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10034.r15388 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1904/v1#referee-response-15388 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 22 Aug 2016 Pieter Gaillard , 2-BBB Medicines BV, Leiden, The Netherlands Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10034.r15388 Dr Bert Tuk has provided the readers with a fascinating Opinion Article, in which he sets out his hypothesis that syphilitic ALS is actually not caused by syphilis. And as a result, the pharmacotherapy that was used to treat and ... Continue reading READ ALL 