This report from Aslam et al. , provides data on the lack of an effect of over-expression of CD40L on the number and location of anergic 3H9 B cells that respond to DNA. This follows on from their 2012 PNAS study which used similar methods investigating the effects of CD40L on anergic B cells from 56R mice. The paper is well constructed and all sections are clear. However, I believe that the data could be presented in a manner more helpful to the reader and provide a firmer foundation for their conclusions. I think that these changes (especially those concerning figure 2) are necessary to substantiate their conclusions and abstract. Both figure legends should contain information on how many mice were used in each group. This information is essential for all publications involving animal work and is necessary to allow proper judgment of data. Whilst the methods do state that the mice are caged in groups of 3 this is within the details of animal husbandry and, as such, it is not clear if this related to the experimental group size. In addition to the representative flow cytometry plots provided Figure 1A and B would benefit from a graph that shows the percentage of splenic Ig 位1 L chain B cells of each mouse in the experiment. This would provide an opportunity to be made aware of the variation between the mice within each group as well as compare between groups. If there are sufficient mouse numbers a statistical analysis comparing groups would also be useful. I am puzzled by the choice of images for Figure 2. Firstly, due to the shape of the follicle it is difficult to compare the location of Ig 位 L chain cells in 2C with those in 2A and B. As the follicular exclusion of 位 L chain B cells within the CD40L/3H9 mouse is a key conclusion of this paper it would be helpful for the reader if 2C was replaced with a representative white pulp area that provides a clearer demarcation between follicle and the T zone. Secondly, I would suggest that Figure 2B makes it appear that the 3H9 mice have substantially fewer Ig 位 L chain B cells than the CD40L/3H9 mice shown in Figure 2C. If it is representative of all 3H9 spleens I do not think that this corroborates the conclusions drawn from Figure 1. As they stand the images make my suggestions regarding an extra graph for Figure 1, and the mouse numbers used, more compelling. Without these changes I cannot truly say that the title and conclusions are appropriate. However, these are quick changes and I trust that it is just a bad image choice.