 The manuscript is composed well and has been presented in a very simple way making it very easy to understand by the readers. As indicated by the other reviewer, more in-depth analysis and comparison to explain the similarities and differences in knowledge and perception of JE disease and JE vaccine may be considered along with the explanatory variables for coverage of JE vaccination. The comparisons would thus help identify the important aspects that could be targeted for improvements. The sampling design could be better explained with sampling ratios planned at different phases of sampling. Vector distribution / density has been indicated in title, however it is not dealt in abstract, objectives, methods and results. Therefore, this aspect may be dropped from title also. It could be mentioned in discussion section as the secondary data and indicated for its importance for understanding of study findings. The higher coverage of vaccination in spite of low level of knowledge and perception of JE disease and JE vaccine is difficult to understand. It may be highlighted and discussed in details. The objectives may be clearly mentioned at the end of background section. The potential sources of bias in selection, verification of information and interpretation of information given by respondents needs to be critically appraised and discussed. The confounders also need to be addressed properly. The verification of vaccination card for ascertaining vaccination recall needs to be addressed with efforts made for data quality. The sample size and statistical analysis plan could be included with specific details on the basis of assumptions and proposed analysis. The sample size estimation could have been based on reported coverage of vaccination to be 93% in small survey findings earlier. The weighting approach needs to be provided clearly with its application in crude/unadjusted and adjusted/corrected coverage. The survey currently presented is mostly descriptive in nature and needs to be made analytical with comparisons that could be made and presented. The questionnaire validity may be presented with variable responses for similar aspects. Non-responses and its handling in analysis may be included. The baseline characteristics of respondents may be compared with good or bad knowledge, acceptable perception or otherwise and vaccinated and unvaccinated. Limitations of study may be discussed with interpretations based on the same. Generalisability of study findings may be considered and discussed. 