The PASH of the breast tissue is well known histological finding, firstly described by Vuitch et al . more than 30 years ago. However, some examples of PASH with unusual clinical, imaging, or pathohistological features may be worthy of publication. Here, Hoggard et al . presented the case of so-called nodular or tumorous PASH, which was associated with pregnancy and which on US guided core biopsy simulated a lactational adenoma. The case is well presented on the clinical and radiological ground, but it is less persuasive in the histological part, mainly due to the only one presented micro-photograph of the lesion. Major revision points: 1.There is a strong evidence that the PASH is caused by hormonal stimulation of mammary myofibroblasts, with particular role of progesterone, which well explains the rapid enlargement of the lesion during pregnancy in the presented case. Curiously, I could not find any observation about the role of hormones in pathogenesis of PASH in the manuscript. 2.The presented micro-photograph of the lesion (Figure 4) is insufficient in several ways: Only the PASH is visible in the figure, and therefore the figure legend with the observations about visible gynecomastoid-like changes, oedematous stroma and lactational changes are completely inappropriate. This may be an unintentional error related to the article technical editing after the submission. Related to the previous point, it would be appropriate to show micro-photographs with visible lactational changes, as well as with visible gynecomastoid hyperplasia and central galactocoele. One low power micro-photograph of the nodule (or at least of the part of the nodule) with visible distribution of the PASH and epithelial elements is crucial for the correct pathohistological diagnosis (see the major revision point 3). 3.The major differential diagnosis here is mammary hamartoma, and again without any notification about it in the text. The PASH is common finding in the stroma of the breast hamartoma, as well as gynecomastoid-like changes. The lactational changes are expected in the epithelium of hamartoma during pregnancy, as well as rapid enlargement of pre-existing small hamartomatous nodule. The authors must stress out in the discussion why that presented nodule better fits to the diagnosis of nodular PASH than to the diagnosis of mammary hamartoma. Minor revision point: 1.The abstract should be more concise. 