The revised manuscript should be indexed with minor edits to correct errors. Although the hypothesis that a bacterial transcript causes human neoplasms through a mutagenesis of MED12 lacks experimental and observational evidence, it is not a major weakness for an opinion paper. The provocative discovery of a homologous sequence between Staphylococcus genome and human MED12 gene merits further discussion. In my opinion however, the high incidence of MED12 mutation can be explained by random mutations and subsequent selection. As I have already explained in the critique for the original version, the incidence of tumorigenic MED12 mutations is expected to be high: diverse MED12 mutations appear to be tumorigenic, and monoallelic mutations are dominant, as MED12 is a X-linked gene. The symmetric distribution of the beginning and ending bases of deletions around the mutation hotspot in MED12 exon 2 (Figure 4) demonstrates that hotspots for missense mutation are also hotspots for deletion mutations. Thus, the distribution pattern is explained by a critical role of the hotspot amino acids in the tumorigenic activity of mutant MED12. Additionally, there is no known mechanism through which a naked nucleic acid of microorganism origin is internalized and hybridized with genomic DNA in human cells. Therefore, the sequence homology seems to be the only supporting data for the provocative hypothesis. To establish the feasibility of the hypothetical model, the presence of Staphylococcus hairpin RNAs must be demonstrated in human tissues. On the other hand, the absence of Staphylococcus infection or Staphylococcus hairpin RNAs in tumor tissues does not reject the hypothesis because pathogenic MED12 mutations should occur years earlier than tumor presentation. The approach by which the authors identified the homologous sequence to the mutation hotspot of human MED12 in bacterial genomes does not determine the frequency of homology between such bacterial transcripts and human genes. Nevertheless, if free RNAs of microorganisms can trigger mutagenesis in human cells, there should be genomic loci other than MED12 exon 2 that would also be targeted by microbial RNAs through the same mechanism. Thus, a systematic screening of bacterial genomes for homologous sequences to human genomic loci, in which somatic mutations are frequently detected, may provide evidence for the hypothetical model. Errors There is an extra “a”: “In general, epidemiological studies have "a" revealed a lower risk of fibroid development associated with parity which may be related to tissue remodeling during pregnancy.” A period is missing between sentences “Between 50% and 60% of the FA harbor MED12 mutations ( Lim et al. , 2014 ; Mishima et al. , 2015 ; Pfarr et al. , 2015 )”and “Histologically, the ….”. 