The article is well written, treats an actual problem (the risk of development of valvulopathy after long-term cabergoline treatment in patients with macroprolactinoma) and provides evidence about the reversibility of valvular changes after timely discontinuation of DA treatment. Title and abstract: The title is appropriate for the content of the article. The abstract is concise and accurately summarizes the essential information of the paper although it would be better if the authors define more precisely the anatomic specificity of valvulopathy mild mitral regurgitation. Case report: The clinical case presentation is comprehensive and detailed but there are some minor points that should be clarified: Please clarify the prolactin levels at diagnosis. In the Presentation section (line 3) At presentation, prolactin level was found to be grater than 1000 ng/ml on diluted testing but in the section describing the laboratory evaluation at diagnosis (line 7) Prolactin level was 55 ng/ml. Was the difference due to so called hook effect? Figure 1: In the text the follow-up MR imaging is indicated to be after 10 months of cabergoline treatment . However, the figures 1C and 1D represent 2 years post-treatment MR images. Please clarify. Figure 2: Echocardiograms 2A and 2B are defined as baseline but actually they correspond to the follow-up echocardiographic assessment at the 4 th year of cabergoline treatment. Did the patient undergo a baseline (prior to dopamine agonist treatment) echocardiographic evaluation? If he did not, it should be mentioned as study limitation in the Discussion section. The mitral valve thickness was mentioned to be normal. Did the echographic examination visualize increased echogenicity (hyperechogenicity) of the mitral cusps? How could you explain the decrease of LV ejection fraction (from 60-65% to 50-55%) after switching from cabergoline to bromocriptine treatment and respectively its increase to 62% after doubling the bromocriptine daily dose? Was LV function estimated always by the same method during the follow-up? Final paragraph: Authors conclude that early discontinuation and management with bromocriptine may be effective in reversing cardiac valvular dysfunction. Even though, regular echocardiographic follow up should be considered in patients who are expected to be on long-term high dose treatment with bromocriptine regarding its partial 5-HT2b agonist activity. 