 Summary: Arrizabalaga et al. address the important issue of accessibility in biomedical publishing. Utilising data from Unpaywall the authors investigate the open access status of COVID-19 articles published within the first four months of 2020. The majority of the COVID-19 literature investigated in this study are classified as bronze open-access, potentially subject to removal behind a paywall at any time. There is also a comparison to other epidemics (SARS-Cov-1 and MERS) and more recent literature that enables some comparisons between the literature. There are inherent weaknesses to such a study due to the time period chosen which, due to the nature of the temporary open-access of many articles, is subject to change in the future. However, this is acknowledged by the authors in the text and can be further addressed through additional discussion. Overall, this is an important topic assessing the early phase of the pandemic with this study requiring some relatively minor changes. Major concerns: Clearer definitions for the different levels of open-access and licences, perhaps as a table. For those not familiar with the open-access terminology this would make the manuscript much clearer and easier to follow. Better distinguish between open-access articles and those that are temporarily open-access through further discussion and analysis. The publisher motivations are highly important, particularly if a large proportion of the current bronze open-access subset is likely to be placed behind a paywall in the future. Clear details on how data were collected, for example, was the data collected via the Unpaywall API or by a list of DOI's? This is particularly relevant for the date of collection, which will impact the results should others attempt to replicate as the authors themselves state in the limitations. Fig. 1A is misleading, presenting all articles and the open access articles summed together. Data should be presented as a stacked bar not summing the articles with the open-access subset or as a Venn diagram. Moreover, Fig. 1C is confusing as currently displayed and may be better removed, with the information communicated in the text instead. It would be nice to see the data for licences used for SARS-CoV-1, MERS, low grade glioma and peptic ulcers in the relevant figures. This is important information that helps to further understand the re-usability of open-access articles. Minor concerns: The number of preprints has increased dramatically as a means of sharing COVID-19 research. It may be useful for the authors to discuss this especially considering the limited nature of some of the open-access COVID-19 literature. Licence “CC” should be “CC0” in text and figures throughout. Clearer discussion over what the authors recommend as good open access principles (including the licence types). 