This study provides normative data on the Lezak’s Tinkertoy test for Italian population ranging in age from adolescence to older adulthood (range: 15-86 years). In this vein, the word “adults” in the title seems to be not completely appropriate. Even more importantly, I don’t see any reason why ethnicity should impact performance on this test. To sum up, I strongly suggest a shorter and more appealing title: Normative data for Lezak’s Tinkertoy test. Actually, so far normative data for this test are limited and based on a relatively small sample. Thus, I commend the authors for their intent to address this lack of evidence. There are, however, some shortcomings that should be addressed in a new version of the manuscript. If my understanding is correct, the authors treated age as a continuous rather than discrete variable. If so, Table 1 is not necessary since it leaves the reader the idea that the age effect is spurious, due to the fact that the different age groups are not the same size. Alternatively, the authors could consider the opportunity to use statistical analysis like ANOVA – quite robust against different group sizes - rather than linear regression. The main problem with the present paper, however, has to do with the fact that the authors missed a great opportunity to demonstrate that the Tinkertoy test has good construct validity. Previous studies reported that among elderly, demented, and traumatic brain injury patients the Tinkertoy test score has a significant, positive correlation with performances on the Trail Making and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. In particular, the Tinkertoy complexity score turned out to be very sensitive to disorders of executive functions. In no way, however, can this be taken as convincing evidence that the Tinkertoy test is a reliable and valid instrument to assess executive functions in healthy people. I encourage the authors to provide further data on this topic. Finally, I want to focus authors’ attention on some grammatical and lexical issues. As to grammar: Methods section, second paragraph: subject and verb are not in agreement as to number “Each subject…… were told…”. As to lexicon: For more than 100 years, in the field of experimental psychology, the term “subjects” has been used to describe people who take part in research and its use is still widely accepted. In the last decades, however, several psychological societies argued that the term “subject” is disrespectful, and recommended to replace it by “participants”. Authors could consider this possibility. Analogously, notwithstanding the taxonomic label “frontal lobe syndrome” is still very popular among clinicians, it has really had its day and should be replaced by "dysexecutive syndrome" or “prefrontal lobe dysfunction” according to whether the emphasis is put on the function or the localization.