I am afraid that I did not find this manuscript and the results to be compelling. The experimental design is straightforward but the analysis is questionable and the report is not as scholarly as it should be. Statistics are used questionably. 1) t tests are used for post-hoc comparisons, when they are not justified, For example, post-hoc t tests are performed after ANOVA has failed to find relevant differences. 2) Furthermore, the alpha level for post-hoc t tests seem not to be corrected for multiple comparisons. The reported significant difference on trial 3 may not maintain after correcting alpha for multiple comparisons 0.05/4, although it might - a reader can’t know. Regardless, what is the justification for the t tests after the ANOVA results were not significant? Dataset 1: Given no effects of genotype or interaction in the ANOVA, what justifies data snooping as follows: "Further independent samples t-testing revealed no differences between WT and KO at any of the 8 different trials, p 0.05.” ? Dataset 2: Given the ANOVA was not significant for a 1-way ANOVA, there is no justification for a t test and in fact it is numerically equivalent to the F-test, so even more so not warranted. "Further independent samples t-testing revealed no differences in duration in any of the quadrants, p 0.05.” The manuscript states that "Fmr1 KO mice showed deficits in their ability to learn the new location of the platform, Fgenotype (1, 23) = 3.93, p = 0.059.” Why is p= 0.059 indicative of a deficit? The Introduction is written as if the water maze is the only way to test spatial memory and cognitive flexibility, when of course it is not. The Discussion states "The current study did, however, demonstrate impairments in cognitive flexibility in the Fmr1 KO. As previously mentioned, other studies have not before detected such changes“ Remarkably, the authors fail to consider the work from the Fenton lab which explicitly has investigated cognitive flexibility in Fmr1 KO mice (Radwan et al., 2015 Neurobiol. Dis.; Dvorak et al., 2018, PLoS Biol 1 .) along with electrophysiological correlates of the ability. Something is wrong with the initial statement: "Male Fmr1+/+ and female Fmr1+/- FVB.129P2-Pde6b+Tyrc-ch Fmr1tm1Cgr/J (Stock No: 004624, The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME, USA) mice were used as breeders (9 total breeding pairs) to produce the following groups:” because WT mice cannot contribute to breeding involving a KO male. Fig 1B should have the days indicated, as well as the rest period. Fig. 2C shows poor learning even in WT, despite the significant effect of trial. Could the paradigm simply not be robust in mice? There is a literature on this possibility, see Wolfer et al., 1998 News Physiol Sci 2 .). What justification is there for the assertion that "Moreover, this ability to adapt to a new location is mediated through multi-synaptic connections between the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex13.”? What is the mechanism that is referenced by the statement "This proposed mechanism further supports our findings of no change to the initial spatial learning phase, as lesions to this area did not impact initial learning performance in spatial navigation11.”? The final statement seems untrue given that the authors claim to find a reversal deficit but say there had not been one detected previously "Overall, this study corroborates and extends previous evidence of impaired cognitive flexibility in the male Fmr1 KO mouse.” What is "t-testing" should this not simply be stated as "t tests” ? 