The paper under consideration presents an elegant approach to efficient mapping of chemical space using principal component analysis. Being technically sound in general, well-written and easily understandable, the paper lacks several technical details without which it is not complete. In particular: The concept of 'chemical satellites' is discussed in a rather concise manner, a bit more details may be added and the seminal paper by Oprea Gottfries [1] needs to be cited. The approach suggested here is rather different from the Oprea's one, because satellites are defined there as intentional outliers, whereas in the current work they are just extracted from the mapped dataset. This difference should be stated in a clearer way. Dataset processing routine is not presented. Although the suggested technique would work on totally random datasets (by the way, addition of such a dataset to the list of examples would be beneficial and illustrative), standardization of structures should be performed for consistency and for more informative application of similarity measures. Targeted datasets in the supplement look standardized, but DrugBank contains metal ions, unconnected molecules, and macromolecules, all of which may significantly distort the comparison. For HDAC1 inhibitors the procedure to obtain this dataset from ChEMBL should be provided, because simple target keyword search for 'hdac1' gives 9 different datasets. Diversity of datasets may be additionally illustrated by any of currently available visualization methods. A method that clearly shows compound clustering or diversity of the dataset would be preferred. Visual comparison of figures is not sufficient to make conclusions about preference of random selection over diversity-based (Figures 1, 2, S2, S3). Differences are visible, but their importance and significance are not obvious (maybe just for me), so use of a quantitative measure would be highly appreciated. Random selection shows sometimes lower stability of the backwards analysis (larger difference between the iterations), and this observation could be discussed. Some analysis of the technique applicability domain would significantly improve the conclusions of the paper. One parameter that deserves attention is dataset diversity threshold above which the technique becomes unstable or less useful. Will it work good for totally random or intentionally diverse compounds or for datasets with two or three large congeneric series? A slightly more thorough characterization of example datasets would be useful to deal with this question. 