I am happy to have reviewed the article 'Cortical auditory evoked potentials and hemispheric specialization of speech in individuals with learning disability and healthy controls: A preliminary study'. The need for the study is well supported by the literature, authors have used cogent method and the results are reported well in light of hemispheric asymmetry in children with Learning disability. The study has the potential to make significant contributions to the understanding of hemispheric specialization in speech processing. However, I have few important concerns which I would like the authors to address, in order to bring more clarity and precision in the presentation of their findings. Abstract It is not appropriate to state that there are no ERP studies. You may state that ‘there is dearth of studies’. ‘However, there is no event related potential (ERP) evidence, hence the main objective of the study is to explore hemispheric asymmetry using cortical auditory evoked potential (CAEPs) in normal hearing adults and also to compare the same in children with LD and healthy controls.’ Split this into two sentences. ‘main objective of the study is to explore hemispheric asymmetry using cortical auditory evoked potential (CAEPs) in normal hearing adults and also to compare the same in children with LD and healthy controls’. I am not convinced with this statement. I think the main objective of this study is to assess hemispheric specialization in LD and the compare the same with a group of control subjects. The stimuli are syllables not consonants. The syllables should be uniformly reported in IPA. P1, N1 and P2 are independent components. Do not report as ‘P1-N1-P2’. ‘The current study results suggest no statistically significant difference between the two stimulus in monaural condition and absence of order effect in dichotic condition’. This is in which group? ‘In healthy controls’, who are the healthy controls? Overall, the abstract needs to be rewritten with the help of an English expert. In Dichotic tests, the two stimuli are presented simultaneously, not independently. ‘CAEPs in DL is evidenced by larger amplitudes and shorter latencies over the left hemisphere’. Please specify the stimulus used in these studies (speech versus non-speech). Authors need to justify why the findings of independent studies on latency and amplitude cannot be taken together to understand the cortical dynamics. Why does a new study with both together need to be carried out? ‘Stimulus-specific’ instead of ‘stimulus specific’. Methods Avoid using the term ‘healthy volunteers’. How did the authors ensure that the control participants did not have auditory processing deficits? In this study, it is not sufficient to ensure that they have normal hearing sensitivity. Syllables to be reported in IPA. How was LD diagnosed? Give more information about the degree of impairment. 6cm distance from whom? What does ‘Extended data’ refer to? What do authors mean by ‘normal native speaker’? Write it as ‘Speaker of Kannada’ not ‘Kannada speaker’. Define Kannada. I think the authors mean neutral tone and not ‘normal intonation’. Why were participants not tested with behavioural DL? If tested, they could have been sure of normal binaural integration in their control participants. Further, relating the ERP findings with behavioural DL would have shed more light into the underlying mechanisms. What was the final duration of the stimuli? Was any kind of quality judgement done for the stimuli? Was normalization carried out for the two stimuli to keep the intensity equivalent? Consider providing waveforms of the stimuli, maybe with the time alignment as presented in the experiment. CEAPs to be changed to CAEPs. ‘A 32 channel electrode cap used with combined mastoid as reference’. Add ‘was’ in between. The spacing between the digit and the corresponding unit (For example, 100 Hz) is not correct in most places. ‘artifact rejection was also be done offline’ - please rephrase. ‘The stimulus was presented in 3 conditions’. Please rephrase this because you presented more than one stimulus in the third condition. ‘In both, the monaural conditions patient will be asked to watch a silent movie and ignore the stimulus presented to the ear.’ Needs to be changed to past-tense. Same comment for the next sentence. Why is it ‘passive attention condition’? The authors, I believe, did not have an active attention condition. As I understand, the stimulus paradigm has not changed the order of the stimuli but only the ear to which they were delivered. In terms of time, in dichotic condition, /pa/ and /ta/ were presented simultaneously. In such a case, it should not be termed as '. The paragraphs on stimulus effect and the order effect needs to be rewritten to bring better clarity to the readers. I suggest that the section on ‘stimulus’ be shifted before the section on ‘LLR recording’ What was the total number of stimulus presentations? What was the task of the participants, particularly during dichotic listening? If they were passive, what were they doing during the recording? timelocked should read as ‘time-locked’. Low pass should read as low-pass. Similarly for high pass. ‘In the current study, two 2 ROIs with three electrodes in each hemisphere were selected, here in after synonymously referred to as right and left hemisphere electrodes’. Split this into two sentences. ‘Here in after’ should read as ‘Hereafter’. ‘the latency of N1 component from C3, FC3, and CP3 are 108ms, 110ms, 112ms respectively; then the left hemispheric ROI is 110ms’. Start the sentence with an ‘if’. How was ‘mean amplitude’ measured? Results I do understand that there was no significant difference between /pa/ and /ta/ in their latency or amplitude. That does not mean that there were no differences at all. Therefore, I am not convinced that the LLRs elicited for two different stimuli are clubbed together. This is likely to increase the variability in the data and mask subtle differences if any in the future analysis. I do see changes in the latency and amplitude LLR for different stimuli in the grand average waveform. Therefore, instead of comparing the mean amplitudes and mean latencies, a point-to-point comparison of the waves would have given a better idea of the differences between the stimuli. ‘significant main effect between groups’ should be written as ‘significant main effect of group’. ‘Though children with normal hearing had shorter latencies than children with LD, the latency difference did not reach significance’. Did children with LD have hearing loss? Please use the name of the groups uniformly. ‘p’ is not reported uniformly. In some places the exact ‘p’ is reported while in others, it reports p as 0.01. Please bring uniformity. The names of groups in tables and figures are not acceptable. Participants with LD cannot be termed as ‘LDs’. Other groups cannot be termed as ‘normal groups’. Figure 1 is expected to represent data of P1, but it has latency of P2. Giving the same data in tables as well as figures will add redundancy. Please give only one. The title of the figures and tables needs to be lot more descriptive and precise. Number of decimal points given in the table could be restricted to 2. Consider clubbing together all the grand average waves in one panel if the journal permits. Discussion Rephrase ‘While the preliminary aim of the study understands the neurophysiology of dichotic processing, the fact that monaural differences in CEAPs itself are not well understood’. ‘CEAPs’ to be changed to ‘CAEPs’ - throughout the article. Conclusions ‘The study failed to categorize learning disability subjects based on their specific learning disability’. This was not the objective anyway and no analysis was meant to do this. Why is this coming here? Again, avoid using the term LDs. Conclusion will be better if it is precise and short. Present the most salient contributions for your research here. This can be followed by caveats and limitations. Please write the implications of your findings. General Comments The manuscript needs a thorough editing of grammar, punctuation and spellings. 