The author now includes references to previously published annotation tools and services such as BioMart and MyGene.info and points out several limitations of the extant tools that are addressed with Biobtree. In addition, the author now includes an online portal for exploring data with a structured query language along with a few examples of specific use cases and a table of databases implemented. Given the improvements, the work can now be beneficial for biologists interested in mapping and annotation of specific genes or terms, which can serve as an alternative to already established annotation databases and services. However, there are still several limitations to this work. First, supposedly one of the main advantages of Biobtree is that it can be run as a standalone executable tool. This is great in theory but there doesn't seem to be any executables in the referenced repository or an explanation of how to install the Biobtree in various environments. The manuscript goes into some detail about the underlying algorithms and datastructures, but there is no explanation of what is required for you to install the program or get it working in either the manuscript or the repository. Therefore, without documentation or description the only way to use the tool currently is through the online portal. The second major limitation is that while there are three use-cases described, there is no documentation provided for how one would build arbitrary queries. A manual or easier to use interface is needed before the full power of the tool can be leveraged. Finally, I couldn't find a way to download the results from the online portal. There is often hundreds of pages of results but it seems there is no way to obtain a table of the results for use in downstream tools or analyses. Given the fact that there is no description of how to install the tool or which prerequisites are needed, and the fact that you can't download the results from the online portal, this tool is currently only useful for manual exploration of the mappings and not suitable for inclusion in bioinformatics pipelines. Since it seems the author intended for the latter, instructions for how to install the tool, a detailed description of the API or commands, and a way to save the output to a table of some kind is still needed. I look forward to seeing the revised manuscript.