INTRODUCTION: If we accept the mentioned issues that presented in the last paragraph of INTRODUCTION (line 1: In Bangladesh, there is no established routine mortality registration system ....), then the line 4 issue ( Drowning mostly occurs among the rural populations) is in opposite / contrast with the paragraph starting issue. 1. Please delete the sentence of line 4 of last paragraph ( Drowning mostly occurs among the rural populations). METHODS: Study Population: If the population size of each UNION was 20,000 persons and the study sample was all of the eligible persons of the selected UNION, then almost 88,000 persons were included from 4-5 UNIONs. 2. Please clearly describe the sampling method and specify the numbers of Upzila and UNION (in total population) and the number of selected Upzila and UNION. 3. Please specify the sampling frame or list for including the selected households and selected eligible persons. Data collection and interview: The time-frame of this survey is unknown. 4. Please report the study (data collection) time-frame (from data collection starting point to the ending) 5. Why the investigators use 6-months period for assessing the drawing occurrence? As you know, we need the 12-months period for assessing the seasonality pattern. Statistical analysis: The investigators used Mixed sampling method (combining Cluster, Systematic and Simple random sampling methods) and this situation causes the estimator variance inflation (increasing) and the widening the 95% CIs for the prevalence, incidence, mean and relative risk indicators. It should be noted that cluster sampling method mainly leads to the phenomenon. In other hand, the common event in community survey is the different distribution of main demographic variables such as gender and age groups. The "Survey Data Analysis" (SDA) or "Complex Sampling Analysis" method was developed for correcting or adjusting the two essential pitfalls as well as the finite population problem and the stratified random sampling consideration. Unfortunately, if the investigator(s) don't perform SDA in the mixed sampling methods (similar to the above paper), the point and interval estimation (95% CIs) of incidence or prevalence measures are not valid and also the effect size measures (Risk Ratio, Rate Ratio, ...) may be inaccurate an imprecise. 6. I suggest that the authors/ investigators indicate to Survey Data Analysis (SDA) method as the statistical method for estimating the valid and reliable INCIDENCE data (point and 95% interval estimation). Please specify the important components of SDA method (PSU or Primary Sampling Units, Stratum/ strata, Sampling weights, ....). 7. It is obvious the investigators should be carried out the data re-analysis using SDA method (based on previous item) by the relevant statistical package such as STATA. RESULTS: 8. As I mentioned, all of the study findings should be corrected based on the above suggestions (items no 6 and 7). 9. In reference to the item no 5 (Major limitation for assessing the incidence seasonality), please delete to the seasonality pattern. Of course, the investigators could report the time fluctuation of the incidence data based on the collected data and indicate to this limitation in DISCUSSION part. DISCUSSION: 10. Unfortunately, the study limitations were not indicated. Please specify the study limitations. 