The authors have performed whole genome sequencing of eight esophageal adenocarcinoma cell lines and one esophageal high grade dysplastia cell line to an average depth of 30x. The authors have made the BAM and VCF files available through the EBI repository and this will be an excellent resource for researchers working on this cancer. We feel the methods used are appropriate and most of the analyses described are informative. We do however have a few suggestions for the authors to address, these are listed below: Dataset validation WGS section: Clarify the % of variants that fall in each sequence context, coding, intronic, regulatory, intergenic. We assume this should sum to 100%. In the next sentence there is a “(“instead of a ” ,” “in front of the 21% and 11% respectively” Table 1: ploidy state of CP-D, should this be hypotetrapoid? Paragraph 2 of this section: Change 4,8x10 3 to 4.8x10 3 MuTect was used as variant caller in the Dulak paper and SomaticSniper was used in the Weaver paper. The authors should explain that they can’t use a somatic variant caller as these require a "normal" sample and also that application of a different caller for this cell line project may also make comparisons with the Dulak and Weaver papers less powerful. Analysis of putative EAC driver genes: There isn’t an ARID1A UTR variant shown for any of the cell lines in Figure 2b yet the authors mention 1 of the 9 cell lines has such a variant in the text. On a related note we think the authors should consider the relevance of including UTR and synonymous changes in figure2b. We don’t think that these are considered in the Dulak and Weaver papers and are, as far as we understand, unlikely to be functional. Second sentence of the second paragraph needs clarifying. Presumably missense mutations were found in MET and EGFR? IH-EsoAd1 should be JH-EsoAd1 in the same sentence. Authors should make more of the fact that they have sequenced whole genomes whereas the COSMIC cell line project has only sequenced cell line exomes. The authors could perhaps highlight the useful extra data that is available from this sequencing effort, such as identification of mutations in putative regulatory regions and germline variants. Both classes of variants will be of interest to researchers working on understanding the genetics of oesophageal adenocarcinoma and wishing to identify appropriate cell models to work with. 