 KEGGViewer is a BioJS component for easy visualization of KEGG pathways. Although the article is quite short it provides all the essential information about the BioJS component for KEGG pathway visualization and points interested users to the source code for its implementation. We do however have some minor comments about the text: The emphasis of signaling pathways is not reasoned enough in the text. KEGG has signaling pathways, but it is so much more (e.g. metabolism, information processing, diseases, etc). For the usage of the given component it makes no difference between pathway classification, this should be clarified. KEGG also has information about metabolites but this has not been mentioned in the text nor in the documentation of the component. I would assume that KEGGViewer is capable of handling metabolite data as well, but it would be nice to have it specified in the text and/or in the documentation of the component. Although KEGGViewer is an easy plugin for visualizing KEGG pathways it is not a unique way for visualizing user data and alternative options could be mentioned in the Introduction section. KEGG itself allows for user data mapping, for example, KEGGanim is a special web tool for mapping metabolite and gene expression data to the pathways. Other alternatives that could be mentioned include Reactome , which allows expression analysis from user provided data. Although the BioJS KEGGViewer component page has enough information to create working examples of the component, not all the requirements are self-explanatory (missing UI icons, display problems on certain mac chrome versions, expression range setup bar is confusing and it could be set to a default state at 0,0, the proxy setup is confusing and needs better documentation). Currently, the description of parameters and options allows only basic usage. To make the component usable for a wider range of users and to display it's full power, the authors will have to considerably update the component description with additional details and 3-4 use cases. 