Wolstencroft et al presents a pilot protocol designed to improve the social cognition of adolescents with Turner syndrome (TS) based on the PEERS program. Overall, this study is very interesting and timely, given that many with TS have a social skills deficit. I have some comments: Design and sample size: uncontrolled, with the aim of including 6-10 TS. The uncontrolled design is acceptable in a pilot trial. I’m more worried about the rather low n. There is a large variability, perhaps even larger than among normal females, in the presentation of females with TS and that may not be captured satisfactorily with a n of 6-10. However, one could ask if it is at all necessary to perform a pilot study, given that this program has shown to be a success in other study groups? Inclusion criteria: the inclusion criteria are rather strict, and I think that the authors will end up excluding a rather large proportion of females with TS, which is a pity. Many females that in their youth may not present with social skills difficulties, will actually do this at a later age, and I think it would be interesting to have some of these females included as well. Can females with hearing difficulties, but treated with a hearing aid, be included? The intervention program, PEERS, is certainly very relevant. The scales used to monitor effect seem relevant. The primary and secondary outcomes are relevantly described. The intervention program seems rather massive with multiple scales and 12 times 90 minutes interventions. Have the authors considered how this will affect the participation rate in the study? I guess they must have contemplated this. Are there experience from other groups of patients? The authors expect 2 family dropouts – and if the inclusion ends at 6 families, that would then leave 4 families – hardly enough to call it a pilot study? Conclusively, if this pilot study proves successful, it will be a welcome addition to the program of care established by excellence center for TS around the world. 