This paper does indeed provide food-for-thought for proponent science communicators. There are a plethora of science communication definitions and modes of delivery and this paper raises the intriguing possibility that science communicators may be getting left behind as the online revolution continues to take place and evolve. Although I feel there are a couple of caveats, for example with the audience reached through the particular sampling technique employed by the authors, this raises intriguing questions about the move towards two-way engagement and the difficulties that this will raise if online or indirect modes of delivery appear to be most valued by the public or at least members of the public reached by these authors. I wonder if the authors would like to contextualise why they have chosen to talk about science festivals within the Introduction? It may also be of value to expand this section a tad. For example, authors could provide examples of science festivals within the UK and perhaps more globally. What does a typical science festival look like? How long does it last? Where does it take place? Who is invited?.. etc Also, perhaps the authors could describe why scientists choose this direct interaction as a medium? What are the advantages or disadvantages and is it a format that engenders two-way participatory engagement? Also, as the results indicate a desire for indirect science communication methods through online material etc perhaps the authors could expand a little on these types of delivery in the introduction too. In the introduction the authors state that: "This paper describes a preliminary small-scale study to assess what science communication output the public may like to see, and suggests how academics may be able to better engage with them as a result of this." I would temper this slightly. I suggest to the authors that instead they state: "This paper describes a preliminary small-scale study to assess which science communication outputs the public may like to see, and suggests how academics may be able to better engage with them, within their own personal constraints, as a result of this. With the methods section: The questionnaire raises some interesting questions. Would the authors be prepared to share why they chose these particular questions? This may help others who may be considering undertaking similar research into other aspects of science communication. With the results section: The authors state: "The majority of respondents agreed that they were interested in science (87.5%), with only 7.1% stating the opposite." How does this compare to MORI surveys carried out every four years in the UK that asked similar questions? https://www.ipsos-mori.com/researchpublications/researcharchive/3357/Public-Attitudes-to-Science-2014.aspx Figure 1 I suggest replacing theme with themes. The authors state that "One respondent had mixed views about these aspects, noting that whilst science allows people to discover the unknown, the ‘dogma’ of science and the inability to access scientific literature made it difficult for people to interact with", would they consider illustrating this with a quote from the material? The authors suggest that interestingly, the top four are all online methods of communication, and represent all of the online options provided. Academics too are actively engaged with social media to network, discuss, plan and carry out studies, with 80–90% of research scientists being at least aware of Twitter and Facebook. This rich and existing community of academics could therefore be utilised more frequently and imaginatively to engage members of the public. This is an interesting comment and I know a lot of scientists would be glad to hear this. However I suggest that the authors temper this by stating...'in this study". It is worth remembering that respondents to the survey were contacted via online/ social media and you may be getting the views of the online-literate members of society that might not reflect the wider non-social media society. I wonder about the concept hinted at in the introduction, that academics practising science communication and engagement appear to favour these types of activities for public engagement events. I think there are many scientists who are turning to online indirect methods of sci comm to share areas of personal and wider science interest. Do the authors know if anything has been written about this at all? As a keen online provider of science material and functioning within these type of communities I wonder if I am seeing the result of my own biases as I feel all scientists are equally engaged this way as the community is vibrant and active and perhaps masks a wider science community that doesn't engage in this way. I am also intrigued that if this appears to be a preferred way for non-scientists to engage with science what does that mean for two-way engagement? Finally "Despite the interesting opportunities for active involvement that citizen science and crowd sourcing can offer" As someone actively involved in a citizen science project myself, I am intrigued by this result. It is thought provoking and deserves further attention. There are some interesting finding within this publication especially within the context of the deficit/fully engaged models that have framed the science communication discipline and community. I recommend that is is indexed.