I read the revised manuscript (ver. 4) and the Author Response (dated on 21 Feb 2020) to my comments on its ver. 2 (12 Nov 2019) that was reported on 19 Feb 2020. As a result, I found that the response was quite unsatisfactory to accept. The authors responded to many of my comments that they think the matter of writing style is not constructive. However, I do not agree with that because those comments are not the matter of writing style but that of fundamental requirements for a scientific paper. I cannot understand their statement that ‘because that is largely affected by the background of the main journal we have read’. Also, the term ‘natural flood’ or ‘annual flood’ is still unclear. It is written that ‘natural flood of two months (starting from around late September to late October) limits the rice cultivation period. The 1st crop (winter-spring) begins after the natural flood, … (Introduction, 2 nd paragraph lines 1–4)’. Then, when was the period ‘Flood’ in Figure 1? It is difficult to understand the periods written in the ‘Emission level’ section of Results: ‘after the natural flood (line 11)’, ‘during the flood period and the 1st crop (lines 12–13)’, and ‘the flood period (line 14)’. In addition, the response to other minor comments are not satisfactory as listed below: Management of rice straw: Authors added the average rice straw dry weight, but it is still unclear how much of the straw was returned to the soil. Statistical analysis: Authors added 95% CI and the numbers of replication, but not analyzed the significance of difference between seasons. After Vo et al. , 2018 has published, it cannot say ‘these emissions are not well studied’. Also, the knowledge in the IPCC Guidelines should be cited and included. The details of the soil properties should be provided if they have not been published in another paper. The reason why the result was not consistent to the ‘previous’ report (Results, Emission level, Lines 13–15) is still unclear. The ‘previous’ report (Oda Chiem, 2019) reported that rice suppressed overall methane emissions. In conclusion, because of the result of above-mentioned assessment, I have no other choice to recommend ‘reject’ for this paper, despite that it includes original and remarkable findings that are valuable to the scientific communities. 