The authors describe the effects of PDGF and H2O2 treatment on the oxidation state of Prdx6 using a thiol probe, that when attached to free thiols increases the molecular weight of the protein by 15 kDa for each probe attached to the protein. The authors demonstrate that H2O2 treatment causes a change in the redox status of Prdx6 as compared to PDGF treatment. There are a number of issues that need to be resolved and validated by the authors before they can make some of the statements made within the manuscript. It is essential that the authors fully describe the sample preparation before analysis as this could greatly affect the results and interpretations made. In Figure 1 the authors describe that Prdx6 when the “Protein-SHifter” is added the protein has a mol weight of 55 kDa in controls and the PDGF treatments and one free thiol with the H2O2 treatment, but in Fig1B they show the native state of Prdx6 forming an intra- disulphide, was a reducing agent used in the sample preparation to reduce this disulphide? Does the catalytic Cys47 of this 1-Cys peroxiredoxin form an intra-disulphide with Cys91? It would also be helpful if a non “Protein-SHifter” treated sample was included in the blot to demonstrate the native band at 25 kDa. From Fig1A it would appear that there is a much more intense band for Prdx6 in the H2O2 treated samples, is there a loading control that can be included for this blot? Carbonylation usually refers to the introduction of an aldehyde or ketone group on an amino acid, I am not sure if this is what the authors are referring to in the title and throughout the manuscript. It is well known that Cys47 of Prdx6 forms a sulphinic (-SO2H) and/or sulphonic (-SO3H) acid. Indeed Prdx6 has been described as having quite a number of various modifications (Jeong, J et al, Proteomics, 2012) so the authors need to confirm the carbonylation or other modifications by mass spectrometry. It is clear that one of the Cys residues is not amenable to “Protein-SHifter” after H2O2 treatment, it would be helpful if they could identify which cysteine residue is susceptible to oxidation. 