Evidently the Dong et al. Nature article 1 made some major, though elementary, mistakes: (a) an incorrect rounding procedure; and (b) choosing data from an historical period (1900-1990) that generally fit a limited lifespan expectation, while neglecting to consider other data. Newman and Easteal 2 correct the rounding error and look at human cohort data from a broader range of historical dates. However, they fit log-linear Gompertz models to the data, though doing so is questionable as they themselves admit, if in fact human mortality rates plateau 3 . It is often the case that extrapolating regression models beyond the range used to fit them is fraught with danger. Of most interest for us was whether the fundamental concept of inferring a species-wide maximum lifespan from one or even many cohorts of demographic data is cogent at all. With that in mind, we used mortality data from a twenty-cohort study of Drosophila melanogaster that we and our colleagues recently published 4 . Specifically, we used “A-type” populations to predict sex-specific “maximum lifespans” for populations of “C-type” populations. Each of the ten pairs of A and C type populations share a common ancestral population in our laboratory, though they have since evolutionarily diverged. We took the initial sample size of, say, cohort CO-i, sex-j ( N ij ), and then computed the age at which the probability of survival in the matching ACO-i, sex-j cohort is = 1/(10* N ij ). We plotted the maximum lifespans predicted from the 20 “A” sex-specific cohorts versus the observed maximum lifespan in the 20 corresponding “C” cohorts (see Figure 1) using a double plateau Gompertz model 4 . If the concept of species-wide maximum longevity were cogent, we would expect all the observed maximum lifespans to be near or well below the y=x line. In fact, most are well above that line, and show no correlation with the predicted values. Effectively, the maximum lifespan estimation procedure is not generally reliable. In the case of the example that we give here, the maximum lifespan was altered by substantial genetic changes caused by natural selection. We have long used experimental evolution to reconfigure the onset and end of periods of aging in carefully handled cohorts, as illustrated in publications 3 and 4. We do not regard maximum lifespans as characteristic of entire species, however they might be defined demographically. Rather, we view them as phenotypes that depend on both genotype and environment even in so-called “wild-type” populations, like most components of life history, as the extensive evolutionary literature on life history and aging has long suggested. More importantly, in cohorts that show a cessation of aging 3 we doubt that the concept of maximum lifespan has any biological cogency. Figure 1. The predicted maximum lifespan based on 10 A-type populations 4 and the observed maximum lifespan in 10 C-type populations: https://f1000researchdata.s3.amazonaws.com/supplementary/11438/8c2e3298-9ed0-4ac5-8b85-ce62336a9bbb.png 