 General comments: This is a topic of interest to obstetric anesthesiologists and obstetricians, and highlights the role of obstetric anesthesiologists in providing access to a needed service that often goes unprovided (postpartum tubal ligation—PPTL). The authors examine success rates of pre-existing labor epidurals for surgical anesthesia for tubal ligation. Study design: This is a retrospective study of undergoing postpartum tubal ligation at a single institution over a 6 year period. Method of labor analgesia and method of anesthesia for the PPTL were collected, and rate of successful re-use of the labor epidural for the PPTL was calculated. Abstract: The abstract provides an accurate synopsis of the paper’s design and findings. Introduction : Overall the introduction is quite short, but does provide appropriate background and citations. Do the authors have a citation to support the statements “Within our practice, and sometimes in the broader obstetric anesthesia community, providers have suggested that rates of failure when attempting catheter “reactivation” for PPTL do not support the practice leaving a labor epidural catheter in place for an interval PPTL. Instead, these providers advocate the routine removal of the epidural catheter followed by a de novo spinal anesthetic (SA)”? Materials Methods: This is a retrospective review of all women undergoing PPTL over a 6 year period. Data were collected regarding demographic and obstetric factors, anesthetic method and dosing, and factors previously identified as predictors of failure of epidural “reactivation” after delivery. Results, Tables/Figures: In general, the results are clearly communicated. During the study period, only 93 women undergo PPTL, 70 of whom have labor epidurals. Of these, only 33 actually have an attempt to reactivate the epidural for use during the PPTL—this then represents the target population, a very small number. Of these, 67% had successful reactivation of their epidurals. For women who received spinal anesthesia (SA) to complete their PPTL, fewer had successful SA if they’d had a prior epidural (74% successful spinal vs 91% of those who had not had a labor epidural.) Discussion: The discussion section is very long in proportion to the remainder of this paper and could be substantially trimmed. Paragraph 2 could be moved to the introduction/background. While the authors state that previously published predictors of epidural re-activation were not confirmed in this study, they are underpowered to evaluate some. For example, the number of patients requiring “top ups” (redoses of the epidural) was 9, with 4 in the successful reactivation group and 5 in the failed group—for rates of 18% and 45%. Because of small numbers, the p-value for this comparison is 0.09, but it is likely that it would reach statistical significance with greater numbers. One of the most significant limitations, as acknowledged by the authors, is the lack of information about why/how decisions were made by the anesthesiologists about whether or not to use an existing epidural, and what to use next or instead. This introduces the potential for selection bias of subjects having re-activation attempts. It would be ideal if the authors concluded their discussion by tying their findings back to the larger question they are investigating—can they make any recommendations about what the optimal method would be? Or, as their study may not provide this, what type of investigation would they recommend to get to that answer? Summary: This retrospective study of anesthetic use for PPTL demonstrated a lower rate of successful re-activation of labor epidurals than previous reports. There is no clear explanation of this unanticipated finding. A prospective trial would better address this by removing clinician bias/practice patterns from the decision-making about anesthetic mode, and limiting differences (known and unknown) between the two groups of patients. Given the infrequency of PPTL, a multicenter trial would be required to accrue patients in a reasonable amount of time, so the choice of a retrospective review is understandable. 