This study is addressing an important issue in geriatrics curriculum that is relevant in every country because of global aging. The authors have conducted a qualitative study to determine the success and challenges of geriatrics clinical clerkships. Some areas to consider editing: Abstract - The first sentence of the Background can be removed because this is universal. Introduction Why is there reference to UK or Australia? Could reference international global data for all aging. No need for revision but rationale is not clear. Sentence: "... over 75 years old take five or more drugs" - remove "according to their medical background". "Most hospital beds are occupied by older patients and they have a lengthy hospital stay..." - is there a reference or evidence that they have lengthy stays? Most older adults are staying longer than 30d, just in Iran or other settings? "Hence the medical profession needs to handle..." - Suggest changing from "Medical profession" to note that all healthcare professionals need to be better prepared to provide care in geriatrics. "The main challenge ... is a better quality of life." I'm not following the thought in this sentence - are we assuming, without any references given, that geriatrics specialists improve quality of life, and by educating more people we will improve quality of life? "Furthermore, dissatisfaction..." - it sounds like this started out negatively, rather than saying that you were going to determine the level of 'satisfaction'. Methods I was surprised that you included patients, as you state that you were including those who were involved in curriculum planning. Are patients usually involved in this? Semi-structured interviews - this is quite detailed and with the questions appended this much detail is not needed. But it is not clear from the appended list of questions if all were asked or which ones were definitely asked and which ones were optional depending on the dialogue. You note that the discussions were recorded - digitally or manually? - Minor edit. . Focus groups - how were these groups selected? Pulled from the same people as the original participants? If the same provide rationale why you needed to survey them and do focus groups. Field observations - you describe this in Methods but then note in Results that you do not report this. Movies - why was there a short movie? How was the movie selected and how did it pertain to the study? It is not usual to show movies as part of a qualitative study, so please provide rationale. Data analysis - second paragraph is quite detailed and could be summarized in terms of following the general processes for qualitative research. No edits needed if word count is okay. "We also tried to avoid any bias..." - explain how you did this. Was it just mental focus, or was there a mechanism by having someone blinded? How did blinding take place - those who did the surveys and focus groups also did the coding of statements? For Methods, it may help to have more subheadings to guide this long section. Ethics - is it standard in Iran for the researcher to provide their phone number and email? This is fairly standard that anyone can stop being in a study at any time, so I think this does not need to be stated. Results Some of the language may be challenging in the translation but overall this is reasonable. Table 1 is easy to follow and rational. Tables 2 and 3 could be set up so that the right hand column was in bullet points vs a long list that is hard to read. In the tables, note if there was a priority for some of the codes given - or are all equal? The quotes used throughout the text are quite informative but the subheadings don't seem to match. For example, the first few quotes make me think of "empathy" rather than effectiveness, but that could be partly a cultural interpretation. Some of the quotes, such as describing the setting or lack of resources, is that specific to geriatrics, or would it apply to every situation, such as pediatrics, maternity units, etc? Please provide a short paragraph in the Intro or Discussion about the context of care in Iran, especially if this will be indexed internationally. Why is insurance described so often? Is there socialized healthcare? How does someone get admitted to a hospital? What is the current context in terms of number of geriatricians? Discussion Some of the issues in the results appear to be ageism, which is in all cultures. "The present study shows that the medical students don't have enough competency in geriatrics." - I don't agree with this because that wasn't the objective or purpose of your study. Overall I find the Discussion is a bit long but fairly well written with reference to current literature and potential solutions for the problems identified. 