The authors must be congratulated for this thoughtful and exhaustive review on a difficult topic. I hope that their ongoing initiative ( www.NewTics.info ) will provide answers to many of the questions raised in the manuscript. My comments are few and as follows : The definition of tics varies but a reasonable argument has been made that they are not abnormal movements of vocalisations but rather normal or physiologic but occuring in an inappropriate context and/or in an inappropriate fashion. As a net result, one can of course speak of abnormal motor or vocal manifestations but as a movement disorder neurologist, I think it is important to stress that the semiology of tics does not give us clear diagnostic clues , as opposed to dystonia of parkinsonina tremor, for instance. Also, it is worth mentioning that tics can be (temporarily) suppressed, which is not the case in the vast majority of movement disorders. Finally, like it or not, stereotyped has been removed from DSM-5. I sympathize with the idea that early intervention, especially using behavioral therapies such as CBIT, may alter disease course, maybe through cerebral plasticity. However, there are no data to support this at present, even in confirmed TS cases. Moreover, CBIT (as opposed to ERP) depends on sensing premonitory urges, which are rarely present before the age of 10, and most PTD cases are likely to fall into this category. Finally, I believe that for patients with PTD, motivation and thus adherence for these kind of treatments will be low, except for severe cases. Thus, the therapeutic angle appears slightly artificial to me. Rather, and this is the main question raised in the manuscript and by parents of children with PTD, is the issue of individual prognosis, and especially conversion of of PTD into TS. The problem, at least in France, is that tics are considered benign, and TS almost malignant. In other words, the terminology we use is paramount. My personal concern is not so much whether one or several tics will persist for more than a year but how damaging they are. This brings us to the talmudic discussion on the utility of DSM criteria and even more on what Tourette syndrome means or not (the authors point out quite rightly that in current clinical pratice, we are usually light years away from the Marquise de Dampierre). If I had a wish, I would get rid of the term Tourette syndrome and switch to tic spectrum disorder (or something like that), although I concede this may be a mushy term. However, I don’t expect to see this happen in my lifetime. 