The report provides a summary of the findings of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics The culture of scientific research project. The report provides insights into the conditions faced by scientists in the UK and makes a number of constructive suggestions at all levels of the academic enterprise that could help improve the culture of research and ensure continued high quality research. The work done by the Council has already been of great importance for the discussion of scientific culture in the UK. I have some issues with the structure and focus of the report that prevent me from accepting without reservations. First, the report summarises the items that are considered particularly important for high quality science: collaboration, multidisciplinarity, openness and creativity. The discussion throughout the report and especially the concluding chapters would benefit from referring back to these four elements and how they can be fostered. For example, it is not clear how the suggestions for action will improve the conditions for multidisciplinary research. Second, the subsections in project findings are not clearly divided. While the first two subsections look at what research is and why people do it, the remainder is dedicated to the various elements that have a negative effect on the culture of research and that need to be improved. I would therefore suggest to split the section into two. The competition subsection could then serve as an introduction to the other elements (funding, assessment, careers etc.) as it is defined by them. Competition is seen as bad due to the problems with funding, assessment and careers and not because it is bad per se . In fact the report finds that half the survey respondents see competition as a good thing, because it is a driver for high quality research. A clearer split of the section and a better discussion of the role of competition would therefore benefit the report as a whole. Finally, the box headings in Figure 1 should correspond to the sub-section headings in project findings (which they partially already do). Finally, I have one very specific comment regarding the funding section. At the end of the section it says that information on trends in levels of funding and themes supported was not available. However, considering that most of the survey respondents come from the biosciences a look at BBSRC funding data, available on their website, can give a first indication of a time trend. There it becomes clear that the number of funded project did not increase over time (unlike the number of academic staff) which may result in more funding competition.