This article worked at the differences between organic and conventional soil management. This research examined an important and topical issue especially the soil respiration under changing plant and soil conditions. Introduction and methods The research investigated 23 soil samples in Ecuador. The samples were located from organic (17 samples) and conventionally managed neighboring farms (6 samples). In the research trials broccoli, potato, tomato and carrot were applied as test plant. Soil properties were measured after 1000 g soil samples of 0-20 cm depths of soil were taken in every picked area. The soil moisture, texture, pH, electrical conductivity, cylinder volume, organic matter, phosphorus content, sand/silt/clay ratio and cation exchange capacity, and the soil respiration were analyzed in laboratory. The values of the soil parameters are presented in a dataset, which inform about the important soil parameters especially the calculated soil respiration in kg (CO 2 )/ha/day). The protocols (description of the tests) are clear and traceable, especially the formula to calculate soil respiration. The study describes the applied type of fertilizers especially the concentration of NPK fertilizers. Comment on the Methods - The sampling time and vegetation status are important for the evaluation, this information is missing in the study. If it’s possible, describe the followings: When the soil sampling happened? What was the state of the vegetation of test plants? - A bit more detail of the soil properties inform us about the actual soil status. The studied soils are classified as sandy textured soil, according to the soil classification (Franco Arenoso). The most typical parameters of the samples are the following: high sandy texture, neutral pH, good/very good organic matter-nitrogen and phosphorus content, 10-20% moisture content. I suggest describing it in the Methods. Results The results of the study are described with sufficient statistical analysis. It also describes the statistically significant/not significant results. There were solely statistically significant differences between crop types (for soil respiration by one-way ANOVA correlation test). - The Figure 1 contains a typographical error (Orgacin matter instead of Organic matter). - It may be more informative, if you use a line diagram instead of dot diagrams in the first figure. - The Figure 2 include the soil respiration values in kg CO 2 /ha /day, which would be more clear with the average values. Conclusion The results have briefly evaluated and conclusions straightforward formulated. I quite agree with observations of the study that emphasizes the importance of further microbiological studies. 