This manuscript develops an interesting and very much debated aspect of science communication i.e. which means ought be adopted by scientists and science communicators in order to successfully reach the lay-audience. Given the steep rise of different sources of scientific information (inside and outside the academic community), it is a timely submission that provides an analysis of the different possible ways to reduce the distance between scientific researchers and broad public. Importantly, this publication offers valuable food-for-thought coming from a privileged point of view, the layperson, attempting to address the flaws that the deficit model in communication may pose. As a matter of fact, by using an ad-hoc survey, Redfern et al . investigate which are the expectations of a non-scientific audience in terms of their engagement in scientific discussions. Remarkably, even though science fairs, festivals, citizen projects are the mainstream in many academic communication policies, the output of the survey intriguingly indicates that, if requested to choose, the public would prefer to be engaged with “time-saver” and less constrained approach like what can be found within the online environment. The authors have widely addressed the survey results, providing a perspective that should be carefully considered by academic policies, not only in terms of communication departments, but also in terms of scientists training. However, there are some minor points that, as a reader, I would be interested to see expanded and that the authors may wish to include in their final version: the authors mention that science festivals that are more present in UK than in every other country - a brief description of some of them in terms of format and public-deliverables would be an asset for the introduction; in order to better contextualize the preference of being engaged on an online format rather than with a science festival (fairs, open doors, hands-on workshops, citizen projects), it would be useful to know how much the selected audience of the survey have had the possibility to be “immunized” with such kind of events. Specifically, is there any correlation between the geographical origin of the public reached by the authors and the presence (or not) of science festival within the region? This would allow the authors to define weather if the lack of interest in science fairs is due to geographical proximity ( i.e. among the 112 selected participants, none or few of them lives close to the place where a festival has been taking place lately) or if it is an opinion generated by the comparison between the two way of engagement (festivals vs. online tools). In my opinion, this would clarify if festivals were not a preferred choice due to their non-commutable distance from the surveyed respondent. Provided that one of the preferred choices of engagement are website and blogs, a brief description of some of these available supports and the way they deliver the scientific information would be a plus To conclude, I believe that, with this submission, Redfern et al. provide a seminal data-driven publication about the expectations that the broad public may have when being engaged with science. Even though, the sampling of the survey is made on a reduced scale (112 participants), it definitely poses the basis for further research which will push forward the methods used by the science communication community in order better reach the lay-audience in the fast-pace-changing and hyper-connected era that we are living in. I am looking forward to reading the final version of the manuscript and, in the meantime, I definitely recommend this article for being indexed. 