Although the main issue I raised in my earlier review regarding the ‘gold standard’ was not addressed, the authors did make mention of the issue, and they did address some of it in Figure S5. While I’m not totally satisfied with this, I feel that their work is ready for publication, but with the reservation regarding the issue just mentioned. This issue should be considered in more detail in their future work. The authors have made some helpful improvements in their manuscript, but there are still some issues they may want to consider to further improve it, although it is not necessary for them to do so. Step 1 in the ‘Backwards approach’ is unclear. Perhaps an example would help clarify exactly what is being done. I could not reproduce Step 1 as it is currently written. In step 3 of the ‘Backwards approach’ the authors state that: Compute all pair-wise Euclidean distances based on the scores of the 2 or 3 PCs generated in step 2. The set of distances are later used as reference or ‘ gold standard ’. It should be noted that the “real” distances or true gold standard would consider the whole distance matrix. However, for visualization purposes it is unfeasible to render more than 3 dimensions. Therefore, we selected as reference the best 2D or 3D visualization possible by means of PCA. With regard to the underlined text in the authors’ statement above, I believe they are missing the point. The reason for considering the full or a significant subspace for a given compound collection and not the 2- or 3-dimensional subspaces derived from a PCA has nothing to do with the impossibility of rendering the data in more than three dimensions because this ‘gold standard’ is not going to be graphically depicted. The important point is that the distances calculated in this space are exact within the limitations of the methodology and means of data collection used. Hence, they form the best ‘gold standard’ that can be achieved within these limitations. The difficulty with this approach is the need to compute Euclidean distances in the full higher-dimensional space, which may require some additional work. However, this distance matrix need only be computed once. I feel the authors should consider this in the future work. Alternatively, the authors need not necessarily involve the complete space, but they should chose a subspace of sufficient dimension to ensure that a significant percentage of the variance, say greater than 90%, is accounted for as a basis for the gold standard. In Step 8 the terminology ‘prior steps’ is used. Does this include all prior steps? I think it would be clear to name the actual steps as is done in earlier steps in this section, e.g. step 4 states “Repeat steps 4 and 5 increasing…” Although unnecessary, might the authors comment on less well behave character associated with the iterations of the DNMT1 inhibitors dataset compared to the other datasets depicted in Figure 1. Line 2 in the ‘Forward approach’ should read: “… e.g., step 1 in the backwards approach.” If I understand the %variance plots in Figure S5 correctly, it seems that the %variance for two PCs are for three of the databases greater than or equal to 50%, but three are less than 50%, with the SMARCA2 database only reaching about 20%. Is the %variance in the latter three cases, but especially for the SMARCA2 database, sufficient to provide a basis for a reasonably faithful representation for all of the respective datasets? 