This paper represents a vanguard analytical investigation on the role of adhesion molecules in regulating the size of enteric ganglia. This paper demonstrates that both in vitro and in vivo , Hu +ve enteric neural crest cells showing a neuronal phenotype tend to sort out within the centre of ganglia and adhere together while Hu -ve enteric neural crest cells show less adhesion and are located more in the periphery. I have a few comments that I would like to be addressed in order to increase the clarity and impact of this manuscript for the reader. In the Introduction the authors state : Hypoganglionosis (fewer, smaller ganglia) is associated with persistent constipation Could they please provide a citation for this statement? On page 2 the authors wrote. Formation of each the NC-derived sympathetic ganglia, for example, relies on the scattered NC cells self-aggregating Please delete from this statement. On page 4 The tubes were then incubated on a rotating platform (120 rpm, radius 1 cm) at 37 o C. At t=0, 15, 30, 60 and 120 min., Please clarify the position that the tubes were incubated, vertical or horizontal? On page 6. HNK-1+ve sorted cells plated on fibronectin or laminin surfaces showed neural immunoreactivity, including SoxE (recognizes Sox9 and Sox10). In the description of the antibodies it states that this antibody also recognizes Sox8. Therefore, could Sox8 please be added within the parentheses. In Fig. 1 . The y axis label reads cells per 100mm2, I think that this might be error and should be cells per 100 microns squared. Could the authors please amend this? On Page 6. The authors wrote, The sensitivity to EGTA showed involvement of Ca 2+ -dependent (i.e. cadherin) mechanisms, but the residual aggregation indicated Ca 2+ -independent mechanisms (such as NCAM) were operative as well, suggests that the initial phase of adhesion in these conditions was largely due to Ca 2+ -independent adhesion. This section could be made more clear with some revision. As the words residual aggregation suggest that it is a later time point and so maybe the removal of the word residual would make this sentence easier to read and understand what the authors are trying to say. Figure 6 needs to be modified so that each of the fluorophores are shown separately, especially 6D. It would be useful for the reader to be informed where the optical section was taken from. Are we looking at a section from the surface or deeper within the aggregate as this changes how we can interpret what we are looking at. Figure 6. It is not clear from visual inspection that the levels of NCAM are really different as stated Labelling for NCAM showed that this adhesion molecule was most strongly expressed on the internal Hu +ve cells with lower immunoreactivity on the SoxE +ve cells,. The level is quite low between some Hu cells. Some quantification of the intensity of the NCAM staining would greatly improve the validity of the authors statements here. Fig 7B. This image doesnt support the assertion from the authors that the Hu cells are found in the center of the aggregates as many Hu +ve cells are found on outside in this image. Do the authors have an alternative image that could be used to demonstrate their conclusions? Alternatively could they make sure that they state the proportion of aggregates that had Hu +ve cells on their surface. On page 10 the authors wrote, "This shows that the outer surface of pre-formed aggregates is relatively non-adhesive, and is consistent with the observation that the outer surface of the peripheral cells of aggregates showed low immunoreactivity for CAMs (Figures 6D, E). The outer surface of the aggregates must be sticky at initial stages or the aggregates would not have increased in size during these stages since the authors have already shown us that aggregate formation at the early stages is not being regulated by cell proliferation. Could the authors please amend this statement to ensure that it is a true reflection of what is occurring within their experiments? On page 11. Culturing these cells in Terasaki wells confirmed this was the case, both populations had SoxE+ve cells but HuC/D+ve cells with E-C8+ve, Tuj1+ve neurites occurred only in the NCAM high fraction. It would be really good if the authors could show this data. If this is not possible then could they please state, data not shown here. Fig 9A. Box plots show the first quartile to inter quartile range and whiskers show minimum and maximum range of data, while the median is represented by a vertical line. The authors are very imaginative but some readers dont shave. Please change to vertical lines show minimum and maximum range of data respectively, while the median is represented by a horizontal line. On page 11 the authors state, Interestingly, the internal structure of the aggregates was strikingly different: SoxE+/Hu-ve cells and SoxE-/Hu+ve neurons were mixed not segregated (Figure 9B inset). Please add in the DRG at the end of this sentence. 