“Design and Implementation of Semester Long Project and Problem based Bioinformatics Course” describes a “multi-omics” bioinformatics course at the University of South Carolina intended for advanced undergraduates and graduate students. The course was implemented in Fall 2017; nine students took it. Per the authors, the primary learning objective of the class was to introduce students “to the breadth and depth of the field of Bioinformatics for ‘omics’ data analyses.” The course was divided into seven modules (e.g., “Genome Assembly and Annotation,” “Comparative Genomics”). Each module had an associated graded problem set, and students completed a research project at the end of the course. A three-question, pre-course survey was used to place students into user groups—bioinformatics tool users, bioinformatics data scientists, and bioinformatics engineers. The article has many strengths. The authors make a compelling case for the need for courses like it to prepare students for graduate school and to address the need for specialists in the field, and they do a good job of putting their course in the context of other bioinformatics education efforts. The contents of the course are clearly laid out (Table 3), and the authors provide a large amount of material (syllabus, slide decks, problem sets) developed for the class as a supplementary file—both will be invaluable for others wishing to implement the entire course or parts of it. As how a course could be improved is often more instructive than what went well, their discussion of potential changes in subsequent iterations of the class is very helpful. Finally, the article is clearly written and easy to read. That said, the manuscript has several issues that should be addressed. First, a number of references are potentially mis-cited. For example, References 6 and 7 cite a Global Organization for Bioinformatics Learning (GOBLET) study that showed that basic data stewardship skills are only taught in 25% of education programs. However, neither of these papers mention the GOBLET survey or the 25% statistic. In addition, References 11 and 12 do not deal with bioinformatics courses and Reference 15 does not discuss the competencies of different bioinformatics users as their use would imply. Similarly, I am concerned about the bioinformatics user groups given in Table 1. Specifically, the descriptions of the three groups are very similar to the three personas described in Reference 14, and the name of one (bioinformatics engineer) is the same (the names of the other two are almost the same). In short, it’s not clear if the authors are restating the results of Reference 14 or are proposing a slightly different grouping. Although the posted resources are clearly an important contribution, I found them to be incomplete in one important aspect. In particular, the authors state that every module had a problem set/project associated with it, but this was missing from three of the seven modules. Furthermore, a brief description of the final research projects the students worked on would be helpful as it would indicate what the students were able to do at the end of the semester. In addition to the above, very little is provided in terms of results. One of the results seems to be the placement of students into the three user groups. However, how the results of the pre-course survey were used to place the students into these groups and if and how they impacted the way in which the course was taught is not clear. Similarly, Table 4 and the corresponding description of it in the narrative, particularly the use of the word “expected,” is confusing. Does Column 3 of the table refer to the group a given student was in at the end of the semester or where they were expected to be at some other point in the semester? In any event, how was this determined? Although the course evaluation is helpful in understanding how students felt the course went, I would have liked to have seen more assessment results, particularly if the learning objectives of the course had been met. In general, the paper would be strengthened by the results of another iteration of the course, one in which the proposed changes had been made and the learning gains of the students were assessed. As previously mentioned, the article is well-written. However, I did notice two small errors. The first sentence of “Course design” should probably be “We had nine students register for the course.” Also, “bioinformatics” is incorrectly capitalized in “This course was designed to provide a structured Bioinformatics course. . .”. 