In this study within a trial, the authors included surrogate decision-makers (SDM) approached for potential consent to the enrollment of patients in a randomized trial. The aim of this trial within a trial was to compare the satisfaction and comfort of the SDM (and of patients, but finally very few patients were included) regarding the consent encounter, between two groups who were randomly allocated to video-augmented consent encounter or standard consent encounter. The main findings are that SMD reported similar satisfaction and comfort scores in both groups. Finally, only 5 subjects in each group could be studied. The obvious, main weakness of this study is its very small sample size. This has several consequences: First, estimates of outcome measures (satisfaction and comfort scores) are imprecise; Second, comparison tests between groups have very low power; Third, the authors conclude that comfort score was very high in both groups. Indeed all SDM gave a score of 7 on the 7-point Likert scale. Imagine the “very high score” was defined as a score of 7. In the convenience sample studied, the proportion of patients with very high score was 100% (5/5) in each group. This only tells us that the proportion of high score in the population is between 57% and 100% (95% Wilson confidence interval) (and perhaps close to 57% in one group and close to 100% in the other group). Is a very high score proportion of 57% satisfactory? This is a qualitative judgment, but I would say no. Scores on Likert scales are presented as means and SD and compared using parametric test. This assumes that the Likert scale is a homogeneous continuous scale where the distance or the increase in comfort is the same between each point, and that the distance between, say point 4 and point 6, is two times the distance between point 1 and point 2. This assumption is likely not true. For this reason, I would give median and percentiles to report scores and perform between-group comparison using a nonparametric test (Mann-Withney U test). Also, given the small samples studied, presenting all individual data, in boxplots, for example, would give an honest picture of what was observed. As explained above, and although the authors were cautious in referring only to “high scores” in their conclusion, even this conclusion is not fully supported by the observed data. 