 Gurevicius and colleagues provided a revised version of their study, but I consider the improvements as marginal and, unfortunately, many issues I raised in my previous review have not been addressed. Furthermore, an inspection of the submitted data file revealed some inconsistencies with the reported statistics. Gurevicius and colleagues make two claims: (1), there is no evidence for an MMN in the hippocampus of the rat. (2), there is a long-term habituation effect of the cortical P60 component. However, there is a considerable lack of transparency in the data presentation; on the basis of the provided information, the reader cannot fully evaluate the reported results. Figure 2 has now been re-labelled, as showing grand average data from Day 1. At the same time, the graphs are still labelled as representative examples. This is not as clear as it should be. First, it is not clear what is meant by . Second, grand average data should not be called . Moreover, in Figure 2 the absolute amplitudes of the cortical P60 are larger than the absolute amplitudes of the cortical N40. This is somewhat in contrast to Figure 3 that shows similar absolute amplitudes for the two components. Finally, given the significant difference in the hippocampal P60 between standards and deviants, grand average data of Experiment 2 need to be depicted, as previously requested. The authors do not describe how artefacts were identified and on what basis data were excluded. It is insufficient to state that data were excluded due to a poor signal (i.e. bad electrode contact) . Such a description hinders any replication of the study. It is still not fully clear what reference electrode was used. The authors state a common reference electrode was used but they do not describe which electrodes were used for calculating it. As also previously criticized by other reviewers, the description of the conducted statistics is incomplete with some F values missing, but there are some inconsistencies as well. (a), Table 1 implies that one data point each was excluded from the analysis of Experiment 1. However, the submitted data file does not contain missing values. Consequently, the data file is hardly suited to reproduce the study results. (b), it is also worth noting that the algebraic signs are reversed in this data file (with positive values for the N40 and negative for the P60 and P110 amplitude values). (c), furthermore, attempts to reproduce the study results are hampered by the fact that sometimes the degrees of freedom are incorrectly reported (in particular for the repetition effects). Moreover, for the repetition effects, it is unclear whether the reported results of the ANOVA were Greenhouse-Geisser corrected when necessary. This needs to be indicated. - When I re-calculated the repetition effect of the cortical P60 in an ANOVA with Day (Day 1 vs. Day 2 vs. Day 3) and ODDBALL (standards vs. deviants) as within-subjects factors with the provided data, I revealed an insignificant main effect of DAY [F (2, 16) = 3.451, p = 0.094 after Greenhouse-Geisser correction, epsilon = 0.556]. As previously mentioned, the concepts of long-term habituation, short-term habituation and long-term adaptation are poorly described and no explicit operational definitions are provided. On the basis of previous long-term habituation studies in humans, I would not expect to see response decrements from day to day but within each experimental day (i.e. within an experimental session); on the basis of the provided data, I am little convinced that there were actually any substantial response decrements from day to day in Experiment 1 (see comment point 4 c). The authors argue that the contrast between the present and previous studies can be ascribed to the confounding effect of anesthesia on neuronal functions, as evidenced in a human anesthesia study . This is not particularly convincing since the cited study of Heinke et al. (2004) showed that the human MMN is diminished by anesthesia rather than the other way around. Moreover, the authors claim in the Introduction that the " severity of Alzheimers disease, and presumable the progression of hippocampal damage, is related to the MMN amplitude decrement ", referring to the study of Pekkonen et al. (1994). However, the severity of Alzheimers disease and the progression of hippocampal damage were not related to the MMN amplitude decrement in this study. The authors need to clarify to what data the correlation matrix in Table 2 refers to, as previously noted. The title of the study needs to be re-considered, as previously outlined. 