In this manuscript, the authors discuss the detection and potential sources of chimeric reads from minION (nanopore) sequencing. Though the manuscript has some interesting analyses and ideas, I have some problems with the results that should be addressed, specifically points 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7: Though 2D libraries were prepared - only *0.3%* of the reads were actually 2D, the vast majority were 1D. This is in my view quite surprising - though with 2D libraries I have seen plenty of 1D reads mixed in, this level of 2D/1D for a 2D prep suggests something strange upstream of sequencing is occurring. However, the authors decline to address it, “The reasons behind this basecall failure were not investigated”. I think this must be addressed more carefully to understand the results. I feel the low % of 2D reads is important because it may play into the source of the chimeras - if the 2D calling is failing due to heterogenous DNA strands - i.e. hybridization of an IFN to an Actb for example, then end polishing and adapting would lead to a 2D read where the two strands don’t match, hence called as 1D. The authors suggest that amplicon sequencing is more susceptible to chimeras because “the same sequencing will appear in increased abundance” - I’m not clear on why that makes chimeras more frequent, just that it makes them more likely to be easily detectable. The authors discuss “multiple hairpin adapters being ligated in the same sequence”. I don’t understand how the authors think this is possible? There are only two free ends of DNA, and if there are hairpins on both, the DNA will not be able to enter the pore. Instead I suggest it could be the proposed “in silico” chimerism the authors later discuss. PCR Chimeras are not unknown in the literature - having been described, for example, in Sanger and 454 here (PMID: 21212162, 20833233). The authors’ assumption that the chimerism is occurring downstream of PCR needs to be demonstrated - Figure 3 suggests that the length of the chimeric is not outside the range of either Illumina or Sanger sequencing, so could be easily validated with these technologies. But - given the multiple ligation steps of this protocol, it seems likely that the dA-tailing failing some fraction of the time could results in blunt-end ligation and chimeric reads. How does enrichment look comparing the overnight to quick ligation for the different categories of chimerism detailed? The only results given are overall chimerism. The authors only tried overnight ligation/quick ligation for the last ligation step, but not for the barcode ligation step. I also wonder if a PCR-barcode may have given better results - the multiple ligations may have led to a higher rate of chimeras, as the end-polishing likely had some fraction of blunt-ended amplicons. Another possible point was the the authors may have not added enough (relative) adaptors - the relative high concentration of template allowed self-ligations to be more frequent. Adaptor dimers are probably easier to eliminate in this case than chimeras. 