In this manuscript, Weiss and colleagues present a novel algorithm for removing electromyographic (EMG) artifacts from ictal EEG recordings, called AR2. Moreover, they evaluate the performance of the algorithm on data from 8 patients and compare it to a similar commercial algorithm, AR1 (i.e., Persyst v12’s artifact correction software), using readings by 26 neurologists. The data chosen were so corrupted by EMG artifacts that they were not interpretable using conventional frequency-based filtering. Both AR1 and AR2 rely on independent components analysis (ICA) to remove EMG artifacts via spatial filters that are learned from the data. There is strong evidence that ICA is effective at removing EMG (and other EEG-artifacts) from data acquired in controlled, research settings[ref1] - 2 . However, there may be too many EMG sources in highly polluted ictal recordings for ICA to work. In general, the authors found that both algorithms (1) made around 50% of the seizures interpretable with typically low levels of rater confidence and (2) produced very low-levels of inter-rater agreement. Nonetheless, when compelling seizure-onset lateralization was available from other sources of data (e.g., PET, SPECT), the algorithms led to EEG interpretations that were in concordance in about 80% of seizures (Table 2). Moreover, AR2 tended to slightly outperform AR1. Specifically, neurologists could interpret more seizures and tended to have more confidence in their interpretations following AR2 artifact correction. However, there was no statistically significant difference in inter-rater agreement between algorithms. The authors conclude from this that their AR2 algorithm “may improve the validity of ictal EEG artifact reduction.” In general, I think the authors’ work is laudable and that it is a valuable contribution to the literature. AR2 is well motivated given the evidence that ICA is successful at removing EMG (and other EEG artifacts) from data acquired in controlled research settings and the approach they have taken to validate their algorithm is generally sound. Moreover it is impressive that all of the seizures were read by a large number of neurologists, (26; although it is not clear how many were board certified in epilepsy or clinical neurophysiology) and that they have made all of their code and data public. However, there are some significant issues with this work that qualify their findings and should be addressed in revisions or future work: -As the authors note, the data for this study was obtained from a small number of patients (8, only 5 of whom had lateralized seizure foci based on independent data). Thus, it is not clear how robust some of their findings are (e.g., the small differences between AR1 and AR2 performance). -Although AR2 is a fully automatic algorithm, there are some arbitrary parameters of the algorithm (e.g., the mutual information threshold used to include an electrode in the artifact correction procedure) that must have been set based on exploratory analyses. If the data used to set these parameters are the same data used to validate the algorithm, then the authors are surely over-estimating, to some extent, the automatic performance of the algorithm. The authors need to specify what data were used to fix the parameters of AR2. -It is important to note that the authors chose extremely contaminated data to evaluate AR1 and AR2 and that these algorithms might be more useful when applied to less contaminated data. -If I understand the text correctly, AR2 excludes non-artifact contaminated electrodes from its analysis. You should include these electrodes in the ICA decompositions because they will help capture the neurogenic signal you are trying to preserve. -Since ICA necessarily removes some neurogenic signal along with EEG artifacts, it can help to quantify this by applying your algorithm to non-artifact polluted data 2 . Adding such an analysis to these findings would help us to understand how and how much AR2 might be distorting EEG seizure activity. Electrodes closest to muscles are likely most affected. -For many statistical hypothesis tests the authors provide only p-values. It would be much more informative if the authors provided test statistics (e.g., t-scores, degrees of freedom), named the type of test (e.g., cumulative logit mixed effect model) and confidence intervals. In particular, confidence intervals will be much better than p-values at communicating how important and robust these effects are 3 . -Figures 4-5 report p0.05 for the results of a large number of statistical tests (23 per subfigure) with no correction for multiple comparisons. You should perform some type of correction (e.g., Bonferroni-Holm or Benjamini Hochberg’s false discovery rate control algorithm). -To interpret these results, it would greatly help to have inter-reader reliability and reader confidence values for non-artifact contaminated data. Can you get these from the existing literature? -I think the primary finding of this work is that neither AR1 nor AR2 provide robust artifact correction when applied to such heavily contaminated data and need to be improved. You should discuss what improvements (if any) you think could be made. For example, using higher-density EEG recordings could greatly help. With more electrodes, ICA’s performance should improve (given sufficient training data). In addition to those major points, here are some additional suggestions and points of consideration/clarification: The abstract should specify the consistency of AR1-derived lateralization with behavioural, neurophysiological, and neuro-radiological findings. Currently, only the consistency with AR2-derived lateralization is reported. -[pg 3]: Saying “ICA removes artifacts based on source-related features instead of frequencies.” is too vague to be informative. You might consider providing more details, such as “ICA derives spatial filters that can remove artifacts that have static scalp topographies and time courses of activity that are distinct from that of EEG sources. ICA artifact correction is necessarily imperfect and will remove some neurogenic components of the EEG as well 4 . However, the degree of EEG distortion may be negligible and ICA has proven effective at removing EMG and ocular artifacts from EEG data recorded from neuronormal individuals in laboratory settings 2 .” -The introduction should note why ICA might not be able to correct for EMG-ictal artifact, even though it has proven useful for less artifact-polluted research data. Specifically, it may fail because the number of EEG artifact sources may be much greater in ictal data. -You should include the article by De Vos et al. (2011) 5 in your review of previous algorithms for correcting EEG artifacts in clinical epilepsy data with ICA. -You say that EEG readings were provided by “26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG.” Please specify how many were board certified in epilepsy or clinical neurophysiology. -It appears that AR2 is applied to epochs that are not contaminated with EMG (pg 3, bottom left). Why try to correct artifacts that aren’t there? -Instead of saying “independent components of greatest order,” I think it is more conventional to say “independent components that account for the most variance.” -Please provide the specifications of the analog filter used to acquire the data. It would help to explicitly report the number of data points per electrode fed to ICA. The reliability of ICA is a function of this 6 . -It might help to clearly state that the AR1 and AR2 processed data were both read using the same graphical user interface (i.e., Persyst’s). It took me a little while to figure this out and it’s great that you did this. -It would help to add titles to subfigures (if it is permitted by F1000’s formatting guidelines). -In Figure 1 there is no point to showing both the non-normalized ICA and normalized mixing matrix since the mixing matrix column scale is arbitrary. Just show the normalized mixing matrix. It would also help to view the mixing matrix weights as scalp topographies to see both the quality of the putative neurogenic and EMG ICs. -[pg 4] You say “Compared to AR1, more readers were able to render seizure-onset laterality assignments using AR2, and these assignments were more often congruent with other clinical data (Table 2).” However in Table 2, 82% of the seizures that were lateralizable with AR1 (i.e., 145/177) agree with clinical findings in contrast to 81% of seizures using AR2 (i.e., 171/210). I think percentage of agreement is more important than the number of seizures in agreement. -[pg 11] You say “Among the 8 patients, if the reader lateralized the seizure-onset to the left using AR2 they were correct in 95.9%….”. Do you mean “Among the 5 patients” with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data? -I think your statement “With regard to AR2, the novel software method developed for this study, the slight improvement seen in ictal EEG interpretability after applying the method suggests that the algorithm can (1) reliably produce signals that are, exclusively or mainly, EEG or EMG, and (2) identify which signals are of brain origin and which are contaminant.” is overly strong. I think “sometimes” is more accurate than “reliably” given the low reader confidence and inter-reader agreement. -I don’t understand your statement “One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic independent components may be that scalp EEG electrodes record weighted and summated far-field signals from all brain and muscle sources, as well as near-field electrode noise generated at the electrode/skin interface.” ICA can separate myogenic from neurogenic activity because they have distinct scalp topographies and largely independent time courses of activity. -It is fantastic that you have made both AR2’s code and your data publicly available. However, there is not enough documentation on your GitHub repo for me to be able to easily understand how to use it (what is scalp_input_matrix.mat?). A little bit more documentation would greatly help. References 1. Jung TP, Makeig S, Humphries C, Lee TW, et al.: Removing electroencephalographic artifacts by blind source separation. Psychophysiology . 2000; 37 (2): 163-78 PubMed Abstract 2. Mognon A, Jovicich J, Bruzzone L, Buiatti M: ADJUST: An automatic EEG artifact detector based on the joint use of spatial and temporal features. Psychophysiology . 2011; 48 (2): 229-40 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Groppe DM: Combating the scientific decline effect with confidence (intervals). Psychophysiology . 2017; 54 (1): 139-145 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Independent component analysis of event-related potentials. Cognitive Science Online . 2008; 6 (1): 11-44 Reference Source 5. De Vos M, Deburchgraeve W, Cherian PJ, Matic V, et al.: Automated artifact removal as preprocessing refines neonatal seizure detection. Clin Neurophysiol . 2011; 122 (12): 2345-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Identifying reliable independent components via split-half comparisons. Neuroimage . 2009; 45 (4): 1199-211 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Groppe DM. Reviewer Report For: AR2, a novel automatic muscle artifact reduction software method for ictal EEG interpretation: Validation and comparison of performance with commercially available software [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :30 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11390.r20245 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-30/v1#referee-response-20245 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 04 Apr 2017 Shennan Weiss , University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, USA 04 Apr 2017 Author Response Dear Dr. David Groppe, We are grateful for your insightful and thoughtful comments and suggestions. Appended below are answers to your inquiries, and changes we have made to the ... Continue reading Dear Dr. David Groppe, We are grateful for your insightful and thoughtful comments and suggestions. Appended below are answers to your inquiries, and changes we have made to the manuscript. -As the authors note, the data for this study was obtained from a small number of patients (8, only 5 of whom had lateralized seizure foci based on independent data). Thus, it is not clear how robust some of their findings are (e.g., the small differences between AR1 and AR2 performance). -- The authors agree that this study is underpowered. Our findings are exploratory at best. -Although AR2 is a fully automatic algorithm, there are some arbitrary parameters of the algorithm (e.g., the mutual information threshold used to include an electrode in the artifact correction procedure) that must have been set based on exploratory analyses. If the data used to set these parameters are the same data used to validate the algorithm, then the authors are surely over-estimating, to some extent, the automatic performance of the algorithm. The authors need to specify what data were used to fix the parameters of AR2. -- You are correct that we used the experimental dataset to define the threshold values and thus we are likely over-estimating the performance of the algorithm. We clarify on (pg.3) and (pg.4) that the thresholds were defined using visual inspection of the experimental dataset in the revised manuscript. -It is important to note that the authors chose extremely contaminated data to evaluate AR1 and AR2 and that these algorithms might be more useful when applied to less contaminated data. -- On (pg.2) we now specify “Ictal scalp EEG recordings present extraordinary challenges to ICA artifact reduction algorithms because the number of EMG artifact sources increases.” -If I understand the text correctly, AR2 excludes non-artifact contaminated electrodes from its analysis. You should include these electrodes in the ICA decompositions because they will help capture the neurogenic signal you are trying to preserve. -- We apologize for the lack of clarity. We only excluded electrodes that had suspected increases in impedance. We specify on (pg.3) “Prior to performing ICA to remove muscle artifact, the algorithm first identified epochs of the scalp EEG record contaminated by muscle artifact and determined the electrodes that were suspected of having high recording impedance during that epoch. The purpose of these calculations was to exclude these electrodes from the ICA calculations.” -Since ICA necessarily removes some neurogenic signal along with EEG artifacts, it can help to quantify this by applying your algorithm to non-artifact polluted data 2 . Adding such an analysis to these findings would help us to understand how and how much AR2 might be distorting EEG seizure activity. Electrodes closest to muscles are likely most affected. -- We agree that this analysis would be helpful and should be a focus of future study. Unfortunately, the EEG reviewers who participated in this study are not available to review non-ictal scalp EEG recordings. -For many statistical hypothesis tests the authors provide only p-values. It would be much more informative if the authors provided test statistics (e.g., t-scores, degrees of freedom), named the type of test (e.g., cumulative logit mixed effect model) and confidence intervals. In particular, confidence intervals will be much better than p-values at communicating how important and robust these effects are 3 . -- As you suggested we now provide t-scores, degrees of freedom, and have named the type of the test in the results. We provide confidence intervals for the cumulative logit mixed effects models results, and the correlation with other clinical data. S.E.M values are provided for the other comparisons in the figures included in the manuscript. The authors are in agreement the confidence intervals are essential to convey effect size 3 -Figures 4-5 report p0.05 for the results of a large number of statistical tests (23 per subfigure) with no correction for multiple comparisons. You should perform some type of correction (e.g., Bonferroni-Holm or Benjamini Hochberg’s false discovery rate control algorithm). -- We have used your Matlab code to perform the Bonferroni-Holm correction on the p values obtained for the individual seizures. The results have been revised accordingly (see methods, statistical analysis). -To interpret these results, it would greatly help to have inter-reader reliability and reader confidence values for non-artifact contaminated data. Can you get these from the existing literature? -- We agree and the following sentence has been added to the discussion (pg. 13): The reliability of localization by ictal scalp EEG in the absence of artifact is between 65-75% for lateralization 26 . -I think the primary finding of this work is that neither AR1 nor AR2 provide robust artifact correction when applied to such heavily contaminated data and need to be improved. You should discuss what improvements (if any) you think could be made. For example, using higher-density EEG recordings could greatly help. With more electrodes, ICA’s performance should improve (given sufficient training data). -- Thank you for this helpful suggestion, we have added the following sentence to the discussion (pg. 13): The effectiveness of AR2 could possibly be improved by utilizing autocorrelations to identify the myogenic independent components. We hope that this method can be optimized for 10/20 standard scalp EEG. In addition to those major points, here are some additional suggestions and points of consideration/clarification: The abstract should specify the consistency of AR1-derived lateralization with behavioural, neurophysiological, and neuro-radiological findings. Currently, only the consistency with AR2-derived lateralization is reported. -- We have provided the results for AR1 in the abstract as you suggested. -[pg 3]: Saying “ICA removes artifacts based on source-related features instead of frequencies.” is too vague to be informative. You might consider providing more details, such as “ICA derives spatial filters that can remove artifacts that have static scalp topographies and time courses of activity that are distinct from that of EEG sources. ICA artifact correction is necessarily imperfect and will remove some neurogenic components of the EEG as well 4 . However, the degree of EEG distortion may be negligible and ICA has proven effective at removing EMG and ocular artifacts from EEG data recorded from neuronormal individuals in laboratory settings 2 .” -- Thank you for your suggestion we have made these verbatim changes to the introduction (pg. 2) -The introduction should note why ICA might not be able to correct for EMG-ictal artifact, even though it has proven useful for less artifact-polluted research data. Specifically, it may fail because the number of EEG artifact sources may be much greater in ictal data. -- We have addressed this issue as mentioned in a prior comment to you. -You should include the article by De Vos et al. (2011) 5 in your review of previous algorithms for correcting EEG artifacts in clinical epilepsy data with ICA. -- done as suggested -You say that EEG readings were provided by “26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG.” Please specify how many were board certified in epilepsy or clinical neurophysiology. -- 20 of the readers were board certified as now specified on (pg.4.) -It appears that AR2 is applied to epochs that are not contaminated with EMG (pg 3, bottom left). Why try to correct artifacts that aren’t there? -- As specified in the methods we performed the ICA on 120 second trials irrespective of the beginning and end of the ictal EMG artifact. We used this approach in order to allow the algorithm to function in an automated and unsupervised manner. -Instead of saying “independent components of greatest order,” I think it is more conventional to say “independent components that account for the most variance.” -- We have made this modification as you suggested (pg. 3) -Please provide the specifications of the analog filter used to acquire the data. It would help to explicitly report the number of data points per electrode fed to ICA. The reliability of ICA is a function of this 6 . -- We now specify 24,000 data points in the methods (pg.4) -It might help to clearly state that the AR1 and AR2 processed data were both read using the same graphical user interface (i.e., Persyst’s). It took me a little while to figure this out and it’s great that you did this. -- We have modified the methods as follows (pg. 5): The AR1 and AR2 processed data were reviewed in Persyst v12 without video by 26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG, 20 of whom were board certified. -It would help to add titles to subfigures (if it is permitted by F1000’s formatting guidelines). -- As far as I know this is not possible. -In Figure 1 there is no point to showing both the non-normalized ICA and normalized mixing matrix since the mixing matrix column scale is arbitrary. Just show the normalized mixing matrix. It would also help to view the mixing matrix weights as scalp topographies to see both the quality of the putative neurogenic and EMG ICs. -- We have changed the figure as you suggested and modified the legend. -[pg 4] You say “Compared to AR1, more readers were able to render seizure-onset laterality assignments using AR2, and these assignments were more often congruent with other clinical data (Table 2).” However in Table 2, 82% of the seizures that were lateralizable with AR1 (i.e., 145/177) agree with clinical findings in contrast to 81% of seizures using AR2 (i.e., 171/210). I think percentage of agreement is more important than the number of seizures in agreement. -- Thank you for this insightful point. The numbers do not refer to the number of seizures in agreement but rather to the number of observations i.e. assignments made that agreed with the laterality defined by other clinical data. Thus, more readers were able to render observations that agreed with other clinical data using AR2 as compared to AR1. However, as you point out the percentage of readers that made rendered a laterality decision that did not agree with the other clinical data using AR2 was comparable to AR1. -[pg 11] You say “Among the 8 patients, if the reader lateralized the seizure-onset to the left using AR2 they were correct in 95.9%….”. Do you mean “Among the 5 patients” with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data? -- You are correct and we apologize for the lack of clarity. We have modified the results as follows (pg. 12): Among the 5 patients with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data, … -I think your statement “With regard to AR2, the novel software method developed for this study, the slight improvement seen in ictal EEG interpretability after applying the method suggests that the algorithm can (1) reliably produce signals that are, exclusively or mainly, EEG or EMG, and (2) identify which signals are of brain origin and which are contaminant.” is overly strong. I think “sometimes” is more accurate than “reliably” given the low reader confidence and inter-reader agreement. -- We agree and have modified the sentence as you suggested (pg.13). -I don’t understand your statement “One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic independent components may be that scalp EEG electrodes record weighted and summated far-field signals from all brain and muscle sources, as well as near-field electrode noise generated at the electrode/skin interface.” ICA can separate myogenic from neurogenic activity because they have distinct scalp topographies and largely independent time courses of activity. -- Thank you for pointing out that this sentence lacks clarity. We have modified this paragraph as follows (pg.13): One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic activity may be related to the respective dipole generators of each. ICA produces independent components that may resemble single equivalent dipoles 14 . Presumably, networks of myocytes exhibit shorter distance connectivity then networks of neurons that produce beta and gamma oscillations, and thus the two generators can be distinguished on the basis of the focality 17 of the independent components topography. -It is fantastic that you have made both AR2’s code and your data publicly available. However, there is not enough documentation on your GitHub repo for me to be able to easily understand how to use it (what is scalp_input_matrix.mat?). A little bit more documentation would greatly help. -- We are in the process of improving the documentation of AR2 on GitHub thank you for reviewing the source code. References 1. Jung TP, Makeig S, Humphries C, Lee TW, McKeown MJ, Iragui V, Sejnowski TJ: Removing electroencephalographic artifacts by blind source separation. Psychophysiology . 2000; 37 (2): 163-78 PubMed Abstract 2. Mognon A, Jovicich J, Bruzzone L, Buiatti M: ADJUST: An automatic EEG artifact detector based on the joint use of spatial and temporal features. Psychophysiology . 2011; 48 (2): 229-40 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Groppe DM: Combating the scientific decline effect with confidence (intervals). Psychophysiology . 2017; 54 (1): 139-145 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Independent component analysis of event-related potentials. Cognitive Science Online . 2008; 6 (1): 11-44 Reference Source 5. De Vos M, Deburchgraeve W, Cherian PJ, Matic V, Swarte RM, Govaert P, Visser GH, Van Huffel S: Automated artifact removal as preprocessing refines neonatal seizure detection. Clin Neurophysiol . 2011; 122 (12): 2345-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Identifying reliable independent components via split-half comparisons. Neuroimage . 2009; 45 (4): 1199-211 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Dear Dr. David Groppe, We are grateful for your insightful and thoughtful comments and suggestions. Appended below are answers to your inquiries, and changes we have made to the manuscript. -As the authors note, the data for this study was obtained from a small number of patients (8, only 5 of whom had lateralized seizure foci based on independent data). Thus, it is not clear how robust some of their findings are (e.g., the small differences between AR1 and AR2 performance). -- The authors agree that this study is underpowered. Our findings are exploratory at best. -Although AR2 is a fully automatic algorithm, there are some arbitrary parameters of the algorithm (e.g., the mutual information threshold used to include an electrode in the artifact correction procedure) that must have been set based on exploratory analyses. If the data used to set these parameters are the same data used to validate the algorithm, then the authors are surely over-estimating, to some extent, the automatic performance of the algorithm. The authors need to specify what data were used to fix the parameters of AR2. -- You are correct that we used the experimental dataset to define the threshold values and thus we are likely over-estimating the performance of the algorithm. We clarify on (pg.3) and (pg.4) that the thresholds were defined using visual inspection of the experimental dataset in the revised manuscript. -It is important to note that the authors chose extremely contaminated data to evaluate AR1 and AR2 and that these algorithms might be more useful when applied to less contaminated data. -- On (pg.2) we now specify “Ictal scalp EEG recordings present extraordinary challenges to ICA artifact reduction algorithms because the number of EMG artifact sources increases.” -If I understand the text correctly, AR2 excludes non-artifact contaminated electrodes from its analysis. You should include these electrodes in the ICA decompositions because they will help capture the neurogenic signal you are trying to preserve. -- We apologize for the lack of clarity. We only excluded electrodes that had suspected increases in impedance. We specify on (pg.3) “Prior to performing ICA to remove muscle artifact, the algorithm first identified epochs of the scalp EEG record contaminated by muscle artifact and determined the electrodes that were suspected of having high recording impedance during that epoch. The purpose of these calculations was to exclude these electrodes from the ICA calculations.” -Since ICA necessarily removes some neurogenic signal along with EEG artifacts, it can help to quantify this by applying your algorithm to non-artifact polluted data 2 . Adding such an analysis to these findings would help us to understand how and how much AR2 might be distorting EEG seizure activity. Electrodes closest to muscles are likely most affected. -- We agree that this analysis would be helpful and should be a focus of future study. Unfortunately, the EEG reviewers who participated in this study are not available to review non-ictal scalp EEG recordings. -For many statistical hypothesis tests the authors provide only p-values. It would be much more informative if the authors provided test statistics (e.g., t-scores, degrees of freedom), named the type of test (e.g., cumulative logit mixed effect model) and confidence intervals. In particular, confidence intervals will be much better than p-values at communicating how important and robust these effects are 3 . -- As you suggested we now provide t-scores, degrees of freedom, and have named the type of the test in the results. We provide confidence intervals for the cumulative logit mixed effects models results, and the correlation with other clinical data. S.E.M values are provided for the other comparisons in the figures included in the manuscript. The authors are in agreement the confidence intervals are essential to convey effect size 3 -Figures 4-5 report p0.05 for the results of a large number of statistical tests (23 per subfigure) with no correction for multiple comparisons. You should perform some type of correction (e.g., Bonferroni-Holm or Benjamini Hochberg’s false discovery rate control algorithm). -- We have used your Matlab code to perform the Bonferroni-Holm correction on the p values obtained for the individual seizures. The results have been revised accordingly (see methods, statistical analysis). -To interpret these results, it would greatly help to have inter-reader reliability and reader confidence values for non-artifact contaminated data. Can you get these from the existing literature? -- We agree and the following sentence has been added to the discussion (pg. 13): The reliability of localization by ictal scalp EEG in the absence of artifact is between 65-75% for lateralization 26 . -I think the primary finding of this work is that neither AR1 nor AR2 provide robust artifact correction when applied to such heavily contaminated data and need to be improved. You should discuss what improvements (if any) you think could be made. For example, using higher-density EEG recordings could greatly help. With more electrodes, ICA’s performance should improve (given sufficient training data). -- Thank you for this helpful suggestion, we have added the following sentence to the discussion (pg. 13): The effectiveness of AR2 could possibly be improved by utilizing autocorrelations to identify the myogenic independent components. We hope that this method can be optimized for 10/20 standard scalp EEG. In addition to those major points, here are some additional suggestions and points of consideration/clarification: The abstract should specify the consistency of AR1-derived lateralization with behavioural, neurophysiological, and neuro-radiological findings. Currently, only the consistency with AR2-derived lateralization is reported. -- We have provided the results for AR1 in the abstract as you suggested. -[pg 3]: Saying “ICA removes artifacts based on source-related features instead of frequencies.” is too vague to be informative. You might consider providing more details, such as “ICA derives spatial filters that can remove artifacts that have static scalp topographies and time courses of activity that are distinct from that of EEG sources. ICA artifact correction is necessarily imperfect and will remove some neurogenic components of the EEG as well 4 . However, the degree of EEG distortion may be negligible and ICA has proven effective at removing EMG and ocular artifacts from EEG data recorded from neuronormal individuals in laboratory settings 2 .” -- Thank you for your suggestion we have made these verbatim changes to the introduction (pg. 2) -The introduction should note why ICA might not be able to correct for EMG-ictal artifact, even though it has proven useful for less artifact-polluted research data. Specifically, it may fail because the number of EEG artifact sources may be much greater in ictal data. -- We have addressed this issue as mentioned in a prior comment to you. -You should include the article by De Vos et al. (2011) 5 in your review of previous algorithms for correcting EEG artifacts in clinical epilepsy data with ICA. -- done as suggested -You say that EEG readings were provided by “26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG.” Please specify how many were board certified in epilepsy or clinical neurophysiology. -- 20 of the readers were board certified as now specified on (pg.4.) -It appears that AR2 is applied to epochs that are not contaminated with EMG (pg 3, bottom left). Why try to correct artifacts that aren’t there? -- As specified in the methods we performed the ICA on 120 second trials irrespective of the beginning and end of the ictal EMG artifact. We used this approach in order to allow the algorithm to function in an automated and unsupervised manner. -Instead of saying “independent components of greatest order,” I think it is more conventional to say “independent components that account for the most variance.” -- We have made this modification as you suggested (pg. 3) -Please provide the specifications of the analog filter used to acquire the data. It would help to explicitly report the number of data points per electrode fed to ICA. The reliability of ICA is a function of this 6 . -- We now specify 24,000 data points in the methods (pg.4) -It might help to clearly state that the AR1 and AR2 processed data were both read using the same graphical user interface (i.e., Persyst’s). It took me a little while to figure this out and it’s great that you did this. -- We have modified the methods as follows (pg. 5): The AR1 and AR2 processed data were reviewed in Persyst v12 without video by 26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG, 20 of whom were board certified. -It would help to add titles to subfigures (if it is permitted by F1000’s formatting guidelines). -- As far as I know this is not possible. -In Figure 1 there is no point to showing both the non-normalized ICA and normalized mixing matrix since the mixing matrix column scale is arbitrary. Just show the normalized mixing matrix. It would also help to view the mixing matrix weights as scalp topographies to see both the quality of the putative neurogenic and EMG ICs. -- We have changed the figure as you suggested and modified the legend. -[pg 4] You say “Compared to AR1, more readers were able to render seizure-onset laterality assignments using AR2, and these assignments were more often congruent with other clinical data (Table 2).” However in Table 2, 82% of the seizures that were lateralizable with AR1 (i.e., 145/177) agree with clinical findings in contrast to 81% of seizures using AR2 (i.e., 171/210). I think percentage of agreement is more important than the number of seizures in agreement. -- Thank you for this insightful point. The numbers do not refer to the number of seizures in agreement but rather to the number of observations i.e. assignments made that agreed with the laterality defined by other clinical data. Thus, more readers were able to render observations that agreed with other clinical data using AR2 as compared to AR1. However, as you point out the percentage of readers that made rendered a laterality decision that did not agree with the other clinical data using AR2 was comparable to AR1. -[pg 11] You say “Among the 8 patients, if the reader lateralized the seizure-onset to the left using AR2 they were correct in 95.9%….”. Do you mean “Among the 5 patients” with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data? -- You are correct and we apologize for the lack of clarity. We have modified the results as follows (pg. 12): Among the 5 patients with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data, … -I think your statement “With regard to AR2, the novel software method developed for this study, the slight improvement seen in ictal EEG interpretability after applying the method suggests that the algorithm can (1) reliably produce signals that are, exclusively or mainly, EEG or EMG, and (2) identify which signals are of brain origin and which are contaminant.” is overly strong. I think “sometimes” is more accurate than “reliably” given the low reader confidence and inter-reader agreement. -- We agree and have modified the sentence as you suggested (pg.13). -I don’t understand your statement “One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic independent components may be that scalp EEG electrodes record weighted and summated far-field signals from all brain and muscle sources, as well as near-field electrode noise generated at the electrode/skin interface.” ICA can separate myogenic from neurogenic activity because they have distinct scalp topographies and largely independent time courses of activity. -- Thank you for pointing out that this sentence lacks clarity. We have modified this paragraph as follows (pg.13): One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic activity may be related to the respective dipole generators of each. ICA produces independent components that may resemble single equivalent dipoles 14 . Presumably, networks of myocytes exhibit shorter distance connectivity then networks of neurons that produce beta and gamma oscillations, and thus the two generators can be distinguished on the basis of the focality 17 of the independent components topography. -It is fantastic that you have made both AR2’s code and your data publicly available. However, there is not enough documentation on your GitHub repo for me to be able to easily understand how to use it (what is scalp_input_matrix.mat?). A little bit more documentation would greatly help. -- We are in the process of improving the documentation of AR2 on GitHub thank you for reviewing the source code. References 1. Jung TP, Makeig S, Humphries C, Lee TW, McKeown MJ, Iragui V, Sejnowski TJ: Removing electroencephalographic artifacts by blind source separation. Psychophysiology . 2000; 37 (2): 163-78 PubMed Abstract 2. Mognon A, Jovicich J, Bruzzone L, Buiatti M: ADJUST: An automatic EEG artifact detector based on the joint use of spatial and temporal features. Psychophysiology . 2011; 48 (2): 229-40 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Groppe DM: Combating the scientific decline effect with confidence (intervals). Psychophysiology . 2017; 54 (1): 139-145 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Independent component analysis of event-related potentials. Cognitive Science Online . 2008; 6 (1): 11-44 Reference Source 5. De Vos M, Deburchgraeve W, Cherian PJ, Matic V, Swarte RM, Govaert P, Visser GH, Van Huffel S: Automated artifact removal as preprocessing refines neonatal seizure detection. Clin Neurophysiol . 2011; 122 (12): 2345-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Identifying reliable independent components via split-half comparisons. Neuroimage . 2009; 45 (4): 1199-211 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: none. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 04 Apr 2017 Shennan Weiss , University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, USA 04 Apr 2017 Author Response Dear Dr. David Groppe, We are grateful for your insightful and thoughtful comments and suggestions. Appended below are answers to your inquiries, and changes we have made to the ... Continue reading Dear Dr. David Groppe, We are grateful for your insightful and thoughtful comments and suggestions. Appended below are answers to your inquiries, and changes we have made to the manuscript. -As the authors note, the data for this study was obtained from a small number of patients (8, only 5 of whom had lateralized seizure foci based on independent data). Thus, it is not clear how robust some of their findings are (e.g., the small differences between AR1 and AR2 performance). -- The authors agree that this study is underpowered. Our findings are exploratory at best. -Although AR2 is a fully automatic algorithm, there are some arbitrary parameters of the algorithm (e.g., the mutual information threshold used to include an electrode in the artifact correction procedure) that must have been set based on exploratory analyses. If the data used to set these parameters are the same data used to validate the algorithm, then the authors are surely over-estimating, to some extent, the automatic performance of the algorithm. The authors need to specify what data were used to fix the parameters of AR2. -- You are correct that we used the experimental dataset to define the threshold values and thus we are likely over-estimating the performance of the algorithm. We clarify on (pg.3) and (pg.4) that the thresholds were defined using visual inspection of the experimental dataset in the revised manuscript. -It is important to note that the authors chose extremely contaminated data to evaluate AR1 and AR2 and that these algorithms might be more useful when applied to less contaminated data. -- On (pg.2) we now specify “Ictal scalp EEG recordings present extraordinary challenges to ICA artifact reduction algorithms because the number of EMG artifact sources increases.” -If I understand the text correctly, AR2 excludes non-artifact contaminated electrodes from its analysis. You should include these electrodes in the ICA decompositions because they will help capture the neurogenic signal you are trying to preserve. -- We apologize for the lack of clarity. We only excluded electrodes that had suspected increases in impedance. We specify on (pg.3) “Prior to performing ICA to remove muscle artifact, the algorithm first identified epochs of the scalp EEG record contaminated by muscle artifact and determined the electrodes that were suspected of having high recording impedance during that epoch. The purpose of these calculations was to exclude these electrodes from the ICA calculations.” -Since ICA necessarily removes some neurogenic signal along with EEG artifacts, it can help to quantify this by applying your algorithm to non-artifact polluted data 2 . Adding such an analysis to these findings would help us to understand how and how much AR2 might be distorting EEG seizure activity. Electrodes closest to muscles are likely most affected. -- We agree that this analysis would be helpful and should be a focus of future study. Unfortunately, the EEG reviewers who participated in this study are not available to review non-ictal scalp EEG recordings. -For many statistical hypothesis tests the authors provide only p-values. It would be much more informative if the authors provided test statistics (e.g., t-scores, degrees of freedom), named the type of test (e.g., cumulative logit mixed effect model) and confidence intervals. In particular, confidence intervals will be much better than p-values at communicating how important and robust these effects are 3 . -- As you suggested we now provide t-scores, degrees of freedom, and have named the type of the test in the results. We provide confidence intervals for the cumulative logit mixed effects models results, and the correlation with other clinical data. S.E.M values are provided for the other comparisons in the figures included in the manuscript. The authors are in agreement the confidence intervals are essential to convey effect size 3 -Figures 4-5 report p0.05 for the results of a large number of statistical tests (23 per subfigure) with no correction for multiple comparisons. You should perform some type of correction (e.g., Bonferroni-Holm or Benjamini Hochberg’s false discovery rate control algorithm). -- We have used your Matlab code to perform the Bonferroni-Holm correction on the p values obtained for the individual seizures. The results have been revised accordingly (see methods, statistical analysis). -To interpret these results, it would greatly help to have inter-reader reliability and reader confidence values for non-artifact contaminated data. Can you get these from the existing literature? -- We agree and the following sentence has been added to the discussion (pg. 13): The reliability of localization by ictal scalp EEG in the absence of artifact is between 65-75% for lateralization 26 . -I think the primary finding of this work is that neither AR1 nor AR2 provide robust artifact correction when applied to such heavily contaminated data and need to be improved. You should discuss what improvements (if any) you think could be made. For example, using higher-density EEG recordings could greatly help. With more electrodes, ICA’s performance should improve (given sufficient training data). -- Thank you for this helpful suggestion, we have added the following sentence to the discussion (pg. 13): The effectiveness of AR2 could possibly be improved by utilizing autocorrelations to identify the myogenic independent components. We hope that this method can be optimized for 10/20 standard scalp EEG. In addition to those major points, here are some additional suggestions and points of consideration/clarification: The abstract should specify the consistency of AR1-derived lateralization with behavioural, neurophysiological, and neuro-radiological findings. Currently, only the consistency with AR2-derived lateralization is reported. -- We have provided the results for AR1 in the abstract as you suggested. -[pg 3]: Saying “ICA removes artifacts based on source-related features instead of frequencies.” is too vague to be informative. You might consider providing more details, such as “ICA derives spatial filters that can remove artifacts that have static scalp topographies and time courses of activity that are distinct from that of EEG sources. ICA artifact correction is necessarily imperfect and will remove some neurogenic components of the EEG as well 4 . However, the degree of EEG distortion may be negligible and ICA has proven effective at removing EMG and ocular artifacts from EEG data recorded from neuronormal individuals in laboratory settings 2 .” -- Thank you for your suggestion we have made these verbatim changes to the introduction (pg. 2) -The introduction should note why ICA might not be able to correct for EMG-ictal artifact, even though it has proven useful for less artifact-polluted research data. Specifically, it may fail because the number of EEG artifact sources may be much greater in ictal data. -- We have addressed this issue as mentioned in a prior comment to you. -You should include the article by De Vos et al. (2011) 5 in your review of previous algorithms for correcting EEG artifacts in clinical epilepsy data with ICA. -- done as suggested -You say that EEG readings were provided by “26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG.” Please specify how many were board certified in epilepsy or clinical neurophysiology. -- 20 of the readers were board certified as now specified on (pg.4.) -It appears that AR2 is applied to epochs that are not contaminated with EMG (pg 3, bottom left). Why try to correct artifacts that aren’t there? -- As specified in the methods we performed the ICA on 120 second trials irrespective of the beginning and end of the ictal EMG artifact. We used this approach in order to allow the algorithm to function in an automated and unsupervised manner. -Instead of saying “independent components of greatest order,” I think it is more conventional to say “independent components that account for the most variance.” -- We have made this modification as you suggested (pg. 3) -Please provide the specifications of the analog filter used to acquire the data. It would help to explicitly report the number of data points per electrode fed to ICA. The reliability of ICA is a function of this 6 . -- We now specify 24,000 data points in the methods (pg.4) -It might help to clearly state that the AR1 and AR2 processed data were both read using the same graphical user interface (i.e., Persyst’s). It took me a little while to figure this out and it’s great that you did this. -- We have modified the methods as follows (pg. 5): The AR1 and AR2 processed data were reviewed in Persyst v12 without video by 26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG, 20 of whom were board certified. -It would help to add titles to subfigures (if it is permitted by F1000’s formatting guidelines). -- As far as I know this is not possible. -In Figure 1 there is no point to showing both the non-normalized ICA and normalized mixing matrix since the mixing matrix column scale is arbitrary. Just show the normalized mixing matrix. It would also help to view the mixing matrix weights as scalp topographies to see both the quality of the putative neurogenic and EMG ICs. -- We have changed the figure as you suggested and modified the legend. -[pg 4] You say “Compared to AR1, more readers were able to render seizure-onset laterality assignments using AR2, and these assignments were more often congruent with other clinical data (Table 2).” However in Table 2, 82% of the seizures that were lateralizable with AR1 (i.e., 145/177) agree with clinical findings in contrast to 81% of seizures using AR2 (i.e., 171/210). I think percentage of agreement is more important than the number of seizures in agreement. -- Thank you for this insightful point. The numbers do not refer to the number of seizures in agreement but rather to the number of observations i.e. assignments made that agreed with the laterality defined by other clinical data. Thus, more readers were able to render observations that agreed with other clinical data using AR2 as compared to AR1. However, as you point out the percentage of readers that made rendered a laterality decision that did not agree with the other clinical data using AR2 was comparable to AR1. -[pg 11] You say “Among the 8 patients, if the reader lateralized the seizure-onset to the left using AR2 they were correct in 95.9%….”. Do you mean “Among the 5 patients” with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data? -- You are correct and we apologize for the lack of clarity. We have modified the results as follows (pg. 12): Among the 5 patients with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data, … -I think your statement “With regard to AR2, the novel software method developed for this study, the slight improvement seen in ictal EEG interpretability after applying the method suggests that the algorithm can (1) reliably produce signals that are, exclusively or mainly, EEG or EMG, and (2) identify which signals are of brain origin and which are contaminant.” is overly strong. I think “sometimes” is more accurate than “reliably” given the low reader confidence and inter-reader agreement. -- We agree and have modified the sentence as you suggested (pg.13). -I don’t understand your statement “One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic independent components may be that scalp EEG electrodes record weighted and summated far-field signals from all brain and muscle sources, as well as near-field electrode noise generated at the electrode/skin interface.” ICA can separate myogenic from neurogenic activity because they have distinct scalp topographies and largely independent time courses of activity. -- Thank you for pointing out that this sentence lacks clarity. We have modified this paragraph as follows (pg.13): One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic activity may be related to the respective dipole generators of each. ICA produces independent components that may resemble single equivalent dipoles 14 . Presumably, networks of myocytes exhibit shorter distance connectivity then networks of neurons that produce beta and gamma oscillations, and thus the two generators can be distinguished on the basis of the focality 17 of the independent components topography. -It is fantastic that you have made both AR2’s code and your data publicly available. However, there is not enough documentation on your GitHub repo for me to be able to easily understand how to use it (what is scalp_input_matrix.mat?). A little bit more documentation would greatly help. -- We are in the process of improving the documentation of AR2 on GitHub thank you for reviewing the source code. References 1. Jung TP, Makeig S, Humphries C, Lee TW, McKeown MJ, Iragui V, Sejnowski TJ: Removing electroencephalographic artifacts by blind source separation. Psychophysiology . 2000; 37 (2): 163-78 PubMed Abstract 2. Mognon A, Jovicich J, Bruzzone L, Buiatti M: ADJUST: An automatic EEG artifact detector based on the joint use of spatial and temporal features. Psychophysiology . 2011; 48 (2): 229-40 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Groppe DM: Combating the scientific decline effect with confidence (intervals). Psychophysiology . 2017; 54 (1): 139-145 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Independent component analysis of event-related potentials. Cognitive Science Online . 2008; 6 (1): 11-44 Reference Source 5. De Vos M, Deburchgraeve W, Cherian PJ, Matic V, Swarte RM, Govaert P, Visser GH, Van Huffel S: Automated artifact removal as preprocessing refines neonatal seizure detection. Clin Neurophysiol . 2011; 122 (12): 2345-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Identifying reliable independent components via split-half comparisons. Neuroimage . 2009; 45 (4): 1199-211 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Dear Dr. David Groppe, We are grateful for your insightful and thoughtful comments and suggestions. Appended below are answers to your inquiries, and changes we have made to the manuscript. -As the authors note, the data for this study was obtained from a small number of patients (8, only 5 of whom had lateralized seizure foci based on independent data). Thus, it is not clear how robust some of their findings are (e.g., the small differences between AR1 and AR2 performance). -- The authors agree that this study is underpowered. Our findings are exploratory at best. -Although AR2 is a fully automatic algorithm, there are some arbitrary parameters of the algorithm (e.g., the mutual information threshold used to include an electrode in the artifact correction procedure) that must have been set based on exploratory analyses. If the data used to set these parameters are the same data used to validate the algorithm, then the authors are surely over-estimating, to some extent, the automatic performance of the algorithm. The authors need to specify what data were used to fix the parameters of AR2. -- You are correct that we used the experimental dataset to define the threshold values and thus we are likely over-estimating the performance of the algorithm. We clarify on (pg.3) and (pg.4) that the thresholds were defined using visual inspection of the experimental dataset in the revised manuscript. -It is important to note that the authors chose extremely contaminated data to evaluate AR1 and AR2 and that these algorithms might be more useful when applied to less contaminated data. -- On (pg.2) we now specify “Ictal scalp EEG recordings present extraordinary challenges to ICA artifact reduction algorithms because the number of EMG artifact sources increases.” -If I understand the text correctly, AR2 excludes non-artifact contaminated electrodes from its analysis. You should include these electrodes in the ICA decompositions because they will help capture the neurogenic signal you are trying to preserve. -- We apologize for the lack of clarity. We only excluded electrodes that had suspected increases in impedance. We specify on (pg.3) “Prior to performing ICA to remove muscle artifact, the algorithm first identified epochs of the scalp EEG record contaminated by muscle artifact and determined the electrodes that were suspected of having high recording impedance during that epoch. The purpose of these calculations was to exclude these electrodes from the ICA calculations.” -Since ICA necessarily removes some neurogenic signal along with EEG artifacts, it can help to quantify this by applying your algorithm to non-artifact polluted data 2 . Adding such an analysis to these findings would help us to understand how and how much AR2 might be distorting EEG seizure activity. Electrodes closest to muscles are likely most affected. -- We agree that this analysis would be helpful and should be a focus of future study. Unfortunately, the EEG reviewers who participated in this study are not available to review non-ictal scalp EEG recordings. -For many statistical hypothesis tests the authors provide only p-values. It would be much more informative if the authors provided test statistics (e.g., t-scores, degrees of freedom), named the type of test (e.g., cumulative logit mixed effect model) and confidence intervals. In particular, confidence intervals will be much better than p-values at communicating how important and robust these effects are 3 . -- As you suggested we now provide t-scores, degrees of freedom, and have named the type of the test in the results. We provide confidence intervals for the cumulative logit mixed effects models results, and the correlation with other clinical data. S.E.M values are provided for the other comparisons in the figures included in the manuscript. The authors are in agreement the confidence intervals are essential to convey effect size 3 -Figures 4-5 report p0.05 for the results of a large number of statistical tests (23 per subfigure) with no correction for multiple comparisons. You should perform some type of correction (e.g., Bonferroni-Holm or Benjamini Hochberg’s false discovery rate control algorithm). -- We have used your Matlab code to perform the Bonferroni-Holm correction on the p values obtained for the individual seizures. The results have been revised accordingly (see methods, statistical analysis). -To interpret these results, it would greatly help to have inter-reader reliability and reader confidence values for non-artifact contaminated data. Can you get these from the existing literature? -- We agree and the following sentence has been added to the discussion (pg. 13): The reliability of localization by ictal scalp EEG in the absence of artifact is between 65-75% for lateralization 26 . -I think the primary finding of this work is that neither AR1 nor AR2 provide robust artifact correction when applied to such heavily contaminated data and need to be improved. You should discuss what improvements (if any) you think could be made. For example, using higher-density EEG recordings could greatly help. With more electrodes, ICA’s performance should improve (given sufficient training data). -- Thank you for this helpful suggestion, we have added the following sentence to the discussion (pg. 13): The effectiveness of AR2 could possibly be improved by utilizing autocorrelations to identify the myogenic independent components. We hope that this method can be optimized for 10/20 standard scalp EEG. In addition to those major points, here are some additional suggestions and points of consideration/clarification: The abstract should specify the consistency of AR1-derived lateralization with behavioural, neurophysiological, and neuro-radiological findings. Currently, only the consistency with AR2-derived lateralization is reported. -- We have provided the results for AR1 in the abstract as you suggested. -[pg 3]: Saying “ICA removes artifacts based on source-related features instead of frequencies.” is too vague to be informative. You might consider providing more details, such as “ICA derives spatial filters that can remove artifacts that have static scalp topographies and time courses of activity that are distinct from that of EEG sources. ICA artifact correction is necessarily imperfect and will remove some neurogenic components of the EEG as well 4 . However, the degree of EEG distortion may be negligible and ICA has proven effective at removing EMG and ocular artifacts from EEG data recorded from neuronormal individuals in laboratory settings 2 .” -- Thank you for your suggestion we have made these verbatim changes to the introduction (pg. 2) -The introduction should note why ICA might not be able to correct for EMG-ictal artifact, even though it has proven useful for less artifact-polluted research data. Specifically, it may fail because the number of EEG artifact sources may be much greater in ictal data. -- We have addressed this issue as mentioned in a prior comment to you. -You should include the article by De Vos et al. (2011) 5 in your review of previous algorithms for correcting EEG artifacts in clinical epilepsy data with ICA. -- done as suggested -You say that EEG readings were provided by “26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG.” Please specify how many were board certified in epilepsy or clinical neurophysiology. -- 20 of the readers were board certified as now specified on (pg.4.) -It appears that AR2 is applied to epochs that are not contaminated with EMG (pg 3, bottom left). Why try to correct artifacts that aren’t there? -- As specified in the methods we performed the ICA on 120 second trials irrespective of the beginning and end of the ictal EMG artifact. We used this approach in order to allow the algorithm to function in an automated and unsupervised manner. -Instead of saying “independent components of greatest order,” I think it is more conventional to say “independent components that account for the most variance.” -- We have made this modification as you suggested (pg. 3) -Please provide the specifications of the analog filter used to acquire the data. It would help to explicitly report the number of data points per electrode fed to ICA. The reliability of ICA is a function of this 6 . -- We now specify 24,000 data points in the methods (pg.4) -It might help to clearly state that the AR1 and AR2 processed data were both read using the same graphical user interface (i.e., Persyst’s). It took me a little while to figure this out and it’s great that you did this. -- We have modified the methods as follows (pg. 5): The AR1 and AR2 processed data were reviewed in Persyst v12 without video by 26 neurologists with a specialization in EEG, 20 of whom were board certified. -It would help to add titles to subfigures (if it is permitted by F1000’s formatting guidelines). -- As far as I know this is not possible. -In Figure 1 there is no point to showing both the non-normalized ICA and normalized mixing matrix since the mixing matrix column scale is arbitrary. Just show the normalized mixing matrix. It would also help to view the mixing matrix weights as scalp topographies to see both the quality of the putative neurogenic and EMG ICs. -- We have changed the figure as you suggested and modified the legend. -[pg 4] You say “Compared to AR1, more readers were able to render seizure-onset laterality assignments using AR2, and these assignments were more often congruent with other clinical data (Table 2).” However in Table 2, 82% of the seizures that were lateralizable with AR1 (i.e., 145/177) agree with clinical findings in contrast to 81% of seizures using AR2 (i.e., 171/210). I think percentage of agreement is more important than the number of seizures in agreement. -- Thank you for this insightful point. The numbers do not refer to the number of seizures in agreement but rather to the number of observations i.e. assignments made that agreed with the laterality defined by other clinical data. Thus, more readers were able to render observations that agreed with other clinical data using AR2 as compared to AR1. However, as you point out the percentage of readers that made rendered a laterality decision that did not agree with the other clinical data using AR2 was comparable to AR1. -[pg 11] You say “Among the 8 patients, if the reader lateralized the seizure-onset to the left using AR2 they were correct in 95.9%….”. Do you mean “Among the 5 patients” with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data? -- You are correct and we apologize for the lack of clarity. We have modified the results as follows (pg. 12): Among the 5 patients with clinical seizure onset lateralization based on independent data, … -I think your statement “With regard to AR2, the novel software method developed for this study, the slight improvement seen in ictal EEG interpretability after applying the method suggests that the algorithm can (1) reliably produce signals that are, exclusively or mainly, EEG or EMG, and (2) identify which signals are of brain origin and which are contaminant.” is overly strong. I think “sometimes” is more accurate than “reliably” given the low reader confidence and inter-reader agreement. -- We agree and have modified the sentence as you suggested (pg.13). -I don’t understand your statement “One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic independent components may be that scalp EEG electrodes record weighted and summated far-field signals from all brain and muscle sources, as well as near-field electrode noise generated at the electrode/skin interface.” ICA can separate myogenic from neurogenic activity because they have distinct scalp topographies and largely independent time courses of activity. -- Thank you for pointing out that this sentence lacks clarity. We have modified this paragraph as follows (pg.13): One explanation for AR2’s ability to isolate myogenic from neurogenic activity may be related to the respective dipole generators of each. ICA produces independent components that may resemble single equivalent dipoles 14 . Presumably, networks of myocytes exhibit shorter distance connectivity then networks of neurons that produce beta and gamma oscillations, and thus the two generators can be distinguished on the basis of the focality 17 of the independent components topography. -It is fantastic that you have made both AR2’s code and your data publicly available. However, there is not enough documentation on your GitHub repo for me to be able to easily understand how to use it (what is scalp_input_matrix.mat?). A little bit more documentation would greatly help. -- We are in the process of improving the documentation of AR2 on GitHub thank you for reviewing the source code. References 1. Jung TP, Makeig S, Humphries C, Lee TW, McKeown MJ, Iragui V, Sejnowski TJ: Removing electroencephalographic artifacts by blind source separation. Psychophysiology . 2000; 37 (2): 163-78 PubMed Abstract 2. Mognon A, Jovicich J, Bruzzone L, Buiatti M: ADJUST: An automatic EEG artifact detector based on the joint use of spatial and temporal features. Psychophysiology . 2011; 48 (2): 229-40 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Groppe DM: Combating the scientific decline effect with confidence (intervals). Psychophysiology . 2017; 54 (1): 139-145 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Independent component analysis of event-related potentials. Cognitive Science Online . 2008; 6 (1): 11-44 Reference Source 5. De Vos M, Deburchgraeve W, Cherian PJ, Matic V, Swarte RM, Govaert P, Visser GH, Van Huffel S: Automated artifact removal as preprocessing refines neonatal seizure detection. Clin Neurophysiol . 2011; 122 (12): 2345-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Groppe DM, Makeig S, Kutas M: Identifying reliable independent components via split-half comparisons. Neuroimage . 2009; 45 (4): 1199-211 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: none. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Figueiredo P and Abreu R. Reviewer Report For: AR2, a novel automatic muscle artifact reduction software method for ictal EEG interpretation: Validation and comparison of performance with commercially available software [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :30 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11390.r20461 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-30/v1#referee-response-20461 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 22 Feb 2017 Patrcia Figueiredo , Institute for Systems and Robotics and Department of Bioengineering, Instituto Superior Técnico University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal Rodolfo Abreu , Institute for Systems and Robotics and Department of Bioengineering, Instituto Superior Técnico University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11390.r20461 Referee report The manuscript needs careful revision by a native English speaker within the scientific community. Although I feel that the performance measures used by the authors are adequate, and that a substantial number of EEG specialists quantified them, ... Continue reading READ ALL 