The submission is a case report of a 15 week pregnant woman who needs urgent lumbar discectomy for cord compression. This requires the use of the prone position (PP) on a Jackson table. The use of a so-called Jackson Table is sensible. It allows for the abdomen to hang freely between the pelvic and chest support. It thus reduces the epidural venous pressure that may cause troublesome bleeding for the surgeon. The Wilson frame (as mentioned in the Discussion) will cause more pressure on the abdomen. The main message is the discussion of the effects of the PP on uteroplacental blood flow and fetal outcome. However, in week 15 the effects on the uteroplacental blood flow may not be significant and the other problems associated with the prone position should be mentioned. A number of other case reports and case series are presented that indicate the PP may be safe during pregnancy. However, the lack of reference to the anaesthetic literature in the references suggests that the authors may not be aware use of the PP during GA is already reasonably well described during pregnancy. More specific comments: The word (and term proned patient ) are incorrect in our opinion use as a verb except in gaming vernacular. The terms or patient in the prone position should be substituted throughout. There is inadequate discussion of the anaesthetic issues. Although safe outcomes occur after GA in the first trimester, the clear consensus in the anaesthesia community is to avoid or delay GA until the second trimester if possible and to use regional anaesthesia when possible. Conclusion: L2-3: What is meant by varying pathologies? Do the authors refer to spinal pathology or any pathology that requires general anaesthesia during first trimester? L7-8: Fetal heart rate monitoring was not adequately discussed. During surgery is not useful until after fetal viability and is difficult to interpret at early gestations. It may give some indication of fetal compromise that prompts change in anaesthesia, but it is only of true value if provision has been made to perform emergency delivery, which does not apply in this case. 