 General This is a useful, well-written article that helps to clarify some of the “fuzziness” concerning the concept of “Open Peer Review”. The author makes a systematic search of the literature, fully and correctly detailing his methods in the Supplementary Materials. His main conclusion is that “Open peer review is an umbrella term for a number of overlapping ways that peer review models can be adapted in line with the ethos of Open Science…”. The data from the systematic review fully justifies this conclusion. The references are comprehensive and up to date. On this basis, I believe the quality of the article is already sufficient to justify publication. I would like, nonetheless to suggest some possibilities for improvement. Weak conclusions The author’s conclusions, while correct, are weak. The rapid growth in references to Open Peer Review in the literature suggests that interest in OPR is growing rapidly. It would be useful to point this out. It would also be useful to point out that 110/122 references in his survey talk about “Open Identities” and 72 talk about Open Reports”. This suggests to me that the core sense of Open Peer Review lies precisely in the use of Open identifies and Open Reports and that other aspects are more peripheral. If this were my article (which it is not) I would make this core/periphery distinction more explicit. The author observes correctly that there is still very little evidence about the effectiveness or otherwise of different forms of Open Peer Review. This is another issue that it would be good to bring out in the conclusions. “Power distribution” - The author claims that the configurations of OPR traits “follow a power-law distribution”. Readers will understand what he means. However a power law is a functional relationship between two quantities – and here I see only one (the number of configurations). Power laws play no further part in the author’s argument. So I suggest it would be better to avoid the term. What the author could say, correctly, is that there are a couple of very common configurations and a lot of rarer ones. This links to the idea of a “core” and “peripheral” concepts of OPR. Reasons for open reports The author correctly argues that Open Identities provide an incentive to reviewers to do their work thoroughly. I suggest that the same applies to “Open Reports”. No reviewer wants to expose himself/herself as lazy or blatantly unfair. Detailed points. P4: I suggest the author replaces “Unaccountability” with “Lack of accountability” P6: In the methods, there seem to be two literature surveys, the first by OpenAire (never mentioned again in the rest of the article), the second by the author. The author should clarify exactly who did what and how he used the OpenAire search P6: The text at the top of column 2 starts in the middle of a sentence. I think something is missing. P7: In Figure 4, it is not clear what is the metric. Is it the number of Journal Articles/Grant proposals etc. or is it the number of distinct definitions found in journals etc? It would be good to clarify what is meant by “Data,Journal Articles” P7: The author writes that “for the literature offers a total of 22 distinct configurations of seven traits, effectively meaning that there are 22 different definitions of OPR in the literature." In reality he found 22 configurations in his, necessarily limited survey. I am certain the literature contains many more. I suggest he corrects his initial statement to make this clear. P7: The definition of “Open identities”, “Open Reports” etc. is given in the discussion. I suggest it would be useful to insert the definitions, earlier, immediately after the introduction of the schema (column 2 p 7) P8: It might be worth mentioning that some publishers (like Frontiers) favor a system of Open Peer Review which publishes reviewers’ names, only when articles are accepted, thereby avoiding the risk of self-censorship by critical reviewers. 