The authors present a detailed analysis of how false positives arise in trans-eQTL and co-expression analyses, due to cross-mapping of reads among genes with sequence homology. They present a cross-mappability metric, and provide pre-computed cross-mappability for two human Gencode annotations (v19 and v26). They also provide software for efficiently computing cross-mappability available at a GitHub link. The command line software has detailed instructions online. The software requires genome FASTA files, a GTF file, a mappability bedgraph or bigwig file, Bowtie (v1) and an index, and a few R packages (data.table, intervals, argparser, stats). The report provides an important warning to the research community, and the pre-computed cross-mappability and the software will be a valuable resource for groups studying trans-eQTL and co-expression and making use of unique read counts for gene expression quantification. One of the key points of the article is noting that the cross-mappable and likely spurious trans-eQTLs are highly replicable between datasets, because " it is driven by the underlying sequence of the genome, and similar alignment errors frequently occur regardless of tissue and study ." This logic also extends to co-expression and gene networks built on gene-gene expression correlations. Another key point was that filtering out of cross-mappable trans-eQTLs necessitates re-assessment of FDR, as the highly significant cross-mappable trans-eQTLs bring down the nominal FDR for other eQTLs. My main comment on the article is regarding details of the gene expression quantification. The authors note that, "The number of reads misaligned to Gene B across samples may be directly proportional to the number of reads for Gene A, or may be determined by genetic variation creating sequence mismatches with the correct region....We note that such errors are not entirely mitigated by filtering multi-mapped reads—some alignment errors may remain between similar regions even among uniquely aligned reads due to genetic variation, errors in the reference genome, and other complications." How would the analysis change if an expectation maximization (EM) approach were used for quantifying transcript and gene expression, where a latent variable is used for the origin of each read or pair of reads (both across isoforms and gene loci)? Such methods may resolve issues as shown in Figure 1A, because the observed coverage and expression of only gene A may give a higher likelihood than the observed coverage and expression of gene A and gene B. However the degree to which these methods may offer an improvement with respect to the cross-mappability issue depends on the distribution of genetic variation and errors in the reads, and on potential errors in the reference genome/transcriptome and on incomplete gene annotations. Therefore, it would be critical to perform the trans-eQTL analysis with regards to cross-mappability, when an EM algorithm, or a similar method that resolves multi-mapping reads, is used to quantify gene expression. Methods such as RSEM, Kallisto, or Salmon may be used to quantify gene and transcript abundance, which use EM or variational Bayes EM to resolve multi-mapping reads (as well as reads consistent with multiple isoforms of a gene) (disclosure: I am a co-author of the Salmon method). The authors note that: "Alignment to the transcriptome or splice-aware alignment may offer future improvements, but computational cost and inaccuracies due to incorrect annotation will have to be evaluated." One potential solution which may alleviate both the issue of cross-mappability and incorrect annotation, would be to use an isoform discovery method to detect and characterize novel isoforms in a particular dataset (large datasets of rare tissues or sequencing of RNA from populations which have been under-represented in previous studies may very well discover novel isoforms), and then to use an EM or similar method to quantify expression. The details about how the GTEx (v7) and DGN data were quantified is missing, although these details are critical for understanding how broad the conclusions of the analysis may be. Gene expression was quantified in GTEx v7 using RNA-SeQC v1.1.8 which does not use an EM approach to resolve multi-mapping reads. According to the Methods section of Battle, et al (2014), for the DGN dataset, HTSeq was used to quantify gene expression, which also does not use an EM approach. I would recommend to add such quantification details of the datasets to this article. 