On the face of it, the concept has some attraction, but it is predicated on something unstated: that the mouthguard material will adsorb any ions arising from the amalgam. Here we have the first problem: dissolution is not leaching, so the premise is faulty. Secondly, there is no evidence that such adsorption could occur - certainly it is unlikely but it is, more to the point, untested. Where is the positive control? However, what is actually detected, it would seem, are particulates (apparently HgS, but not specifically demonstrated). These are either the result of mechanical action, which seems likely, embedding them in the polymer surface, or the result of reaction with mercury ions forming a precipitate on the polymer. The latter would be very serious in its implications, and for which I know of no precedent. The fact that the chemistry is not considered in any way is major deficiency. (The navety of the remarks in para.4 of the Discussion suggests a lack of such comprehension.) At the very least, elemental mapping should have been used, identifying the restoration borders carefully and looking for migration beyond them. Particulates should have been studied in more detail, but the experiment fails to achieve what it sets out to do, but it seems that there is no comprehension of this or why. For example, was the sulphur already on the amalgam surface as sulphide (which is likely) and simply transferred? I can think of two ways of testing this - both very simple. But, without this information, we have no idea what is going on. Indeed, why is there no silver? The English is pretty poor, with failures of logic and sense in many places. At the very least it should have been copy-edited by a native English speaker versed in technical writing before submission. It is in the best interests of all authors that this be done where English is not the first language. It would save referees an awful lot of trouble, and authors a lot of time. Scientifically, this paper is below the standard required in several respects. Division of the content into the proper sections is required. However, the ‘review’ section is of no value, and the discussion completely empty except for repetition of introductory material and other material of no value. With some sensible direction, something useful might have been achieved with the basic idea, but this has not occurred. Some few comments. A comprehensive list would take too long. Abstract verify if verify whether could detect : logically wrong - night-guards cannot detect anything leached-elements leached elements restorations as restorations such as during when while analyzed analysed (the z is always illiterate) homogenous homogeneous the composition was carbon and oxygen : no ... wt% mass% Introduction Several studies ... : there is no trace here of a critical review so the value of the various reports cannot be assessed or the present attempt actually justified. Methods polymeric sheets : what material? instructed to wear the night-guards when they were asleep : ... while ... 10 SI equivalent, please, and with a space between value and symbol: but does this not obscure the test surface and prevent elemental detections? homogenous homogeneous Discussion para 1: introduction para 2: repetition, delete. para 3: repetition! para 4: This was confirmed ... : no, this is the only evidence you have, the assertion does not count. The remainder of this paragraph is padding. para 5: results, delete. para 6: is the totality of the discussion? Actually, a conclusion, but very weak. Fig. 2 and 6 are near pointless - the contrast is bad. There is no point in Figures 3, 5, and 7 - this is raw data. Fig. 4 : elemental maps for Hg and S (as well as Ag, Sn, Cu, if ever detected locally) would make more sense. “Lustrous” is quite inappropriate for a description from an SEM image - this character is not detectable. 