The presented protocol seems very promising to help understand the clinical applicability of perioperative hs-cTnT Screening after non-cardiac surgery in high-risk patients in routine practise. The follow-up data on adherence of medication prescribed for MINS will be very interesting. The concept to do a cost-benefit analysis seems very promising as well. Also the CTA and MRI study is ambitious and could yield very interesting results. It is important to note, that the study protocol was submitted in 05/2019 as the study nears completion (start according to the protocol was in 2016). Therefore, alterations to the original study protocol are possible, I would invite the authors to comment on any changes done especially concerning the endpoint or procedures. Some additional details could be considered: The definition of MINS at the moment is to a part arbitrary as there is currently no agreed upon definition. There are however aspects to consider: a) Previous studies were done, which used different cut-offs than that proposed by the study group. Importantly the VISION study identified possible cut-offs and the BASEL-PMI studies used a prospective cut-off. In both studies an absolute delta cut-off was used/found, which is in line with the agreed upon criteria for the definition of acute myocardial infarction. Using absolute delta cut-offs could enhance the protocol by creating a more readily usable flowchart (e.g. one cut-off for change to preoperative baseline) and allow for better comparison. Please consider doing a sensitivity analysis with aligned criteria. b) Using MINS as the primary outcome poses a challenge in the flow-Chart, as MINS excludes other conditions leading to postoperative troponin elevations, e.g. sepsis, pulmonary embolism or tachyarrhythmia. Do the authors wish to use the same distinction or include all elevations (which seems sensible, as this is what the screening will uncover)? Please elaborate. Prognostic Analysis: the combined MACE-endpoint consists of multiple endpoints, please extend the definition. a) It is unclear to me why you ought to include unstable angina, as it is not expected that the coronary artery disease of the affected patients should worsen via surgery? This could introduce noise into this ambitious study b) New atrial fibrillation will be difficult to assess using only one ECG at detection. Would you reconsider "onset of symptomatic AF or AF needing treatment"? c) Why is "cardiovascular death" not part of the combined endpoint? d) The use of a binary logistic model instead of a Cox proportional hazards model or a time-dependent analysis is unclear to me. As a certain amount of loss-to-followup is nearly unavoidable, and there is a competing endpoint all-cause death or (in case of cv-death being part of the endpoint) non-cardiovascular death, the Cox-model would offer benefits. When evaluating potential threshold for the prognostic ability of hs-cTnT/MINS, I would recommend a methodology similar to that of the VISION study, which was done in a very thorough manner. Substudy: Could you provide details on the matching procedure done for the substudy? Is this propensity score matching? Cost-benefit analysis: in light of no clear MINS-Definition to date, I invite the authors to do sensitivity analyses using different assumptions for the definition of MINS. The provided ideas are simply comments, the authors shall feel free to use any recommendations, especially as the study was already conducted according to the methods. I congratulate the research group for such an undertaking. 