The report provides an excellent portrayal of conditions faced by postdoctoral researchers and graduate students in the biomedical sciences in the United States and it makes a number of constructive suggestions for reforms that could make the system more early career friendly. For example, the authors advocate increased transparency so that doctoral students and postdoctoral scholars will know the career outcomes of those who proceeded them and a change in the ratio of individuals who staff labs between graduate students, postdocs, technicians and staff scientists. They also advocate a greater focus on facilitating the learning of soft skills while in training and a redirection of resources towards younger researchers and away from extremely senior researchers. (Over 7% of all NIH R01 supported PIs are currently 66 or older and about 3% are 36 or younger.) I would add to this list an increase in the salary of postdoctoral trainees: the current system, with its low pay for postdoctoral researchers, actively encourages an over reliance on postdoctoral trainees in the lab. I would also shift support of graduate students to training grants and away from graduate research assistantships. This would allow more control over the quality of training and the number of individuals trained. I would also note, as someone who has studied the funding of science and the biomedical work force for many years, that Vannevar Bushs vision was to support graduate students and postdoctoral researchers on fellowships, not on graduate research assistantships. His vision was to train future researchers, not to provide support for trainees to staff labs during their years of training. It was only in the late 1950s and early 1960s that the system began to increasingly tilt towards supporting students as graduate research assistants. It is also interesting to remember that over training in the biomedical sciences has been a major issue for at least 40 years. As early as 1976, an NRC report concluded that a slower rate of growth in the labor force in these fields [the biomedical sciences] was advisable. And in 1998, the NRC report, Trends in the Early Careers of Life Scientists, chaired by Shirley Tilghman, called for restraint in the number of PhDs produced and increased use of training grants relative to graduate research assistantships.