The authors have made some improvements to their first version of the manuscript, arguing now that their patient had SIADH which was exacerbated by natriuresis caused by ectopic and inappropriate secretion of ANP. This is possibly true. However, without clear evidence that the patient was hypovolemic, they cannot distinguish between appropriate and non-ectopic secretion of ANP caused by the water retention of SIADH. The final paragraph continues to miss this point and makes statements that I do not agree with: "Hyponatremia potentially caused or worsened by SIANP should not be expected to respond to the traditional treatments used for pure SIADH". Comment: This is not true; the serum sodium concentration will increase in response to traditional treatments, including hypertonic saline, vasopressin antagonists, urea, etc. "water restriction, beneficial in SIADH, may worsen the hyponatremia of SIANP if sodium intake is not increased concurrently." Comment: Water restriction would be expected to worsen hypovolemia, but not hyponatremia. "Likewise, if ADH levels are already suppressed in SIANP, ADH antagonists such as demeclocycline or conivaptan will have no benefits". Comment: The statement is ambiguous. ADH is the cause of a concentrated urine whether ectopic ANP is the primary cause of natriuresis or if it is secondarily increased in response to water retention. If the former were true, an ADH antagonist would raise the serum sodium but exacerbate hypovolemia. "However, if the hyponatremia continues to worsen after 4896 hours, alternative etiologies including ectopic ANP production should be considered and plasma levels of ANP and AVP should be measured to confirm the underlying etiology of the hyponatremia". Comment: measurements of these hormones cannot distinguish between ectopic and secondary secretion of either ANP or AVP. Measurements of AVP in commercial labs are not very reliable and should not be encouraged. The key distinction is clinical -- is the patient hypovolemic or not. Thats a very difficult question to answer and one that will not be aided by the hormonal measurements suggested by the authors. 