This is a subanalysis of a previous study detailing the completeness of clinical study reporting in abstracts according to the CONSORT for abstracts checklist. The original publication was restricted to a sample of clinical trial publications in 5 high-ranking general medical journals. This subanalysis investigated differences in adherence to CONSORT for abstracts between papers with or without acknowledged professional medical writing support. With respect to the co-authors' previous study, citation of the full paper (ref 8) is sufficient. Citing the poster of the same study is not necessary (ref 7). Regarding the methods, it is not clear how automated searching would have identified the presence of professional medical writing support. In this reviewer's experience, that has always required retrieval of the full text article. If the automated search was performed on each full text article, I think it would be clearer to state this. In the discussion, the authors point out funding source as a potential confounder of their results. It would perhaps be of interest to examine industry-funded studies written up without acknowledged professional medical writing support as an additional comparator group to determine whether industry funding was driving differences in CONSORT adherence. I also have a niggling concern that although GPP3 encourages transparency around the involvement of non-author contributors such as professional medical writers in industry-funded publications, there may be papers in this cohort that used unacknowledged medical writers, papers where a professional writer was included as an author, so not acknowledged as such, or non-industry funded papers where the authors used institutional editorial/writing resource that is not acknowledged. Perhaps the authors could comment on this potential limitation in the discussion. Although this is a fairly straightforward subanalysis of a previous study, I think it makes an important contribution to the evidence base about the role of professional medical writers, even though the findings are neutral in terms of adherence to CONSORT for abstracts. 