The current study is an interesting “ in silico ” approach that mine for CHH/MIH/GIH neuropeptide in a wide range of crustacean. Introduction is updated and concise. However, there are some minor points that will need to be addressed to provide clarity information for readers. Materials and methods is sound and appropriate, although I raise some particular suggestions to further expand the quality of the MS. Results and discussions are overall good. One major point that needs to be fixed is the phylogenetics tree, whereas the color code system does not correlate between legend and figure. In addition, I have specific comments, (the fact that it does not appear as numbered pages and lines makes it a bit awkward, but see below): Page 2: …known as CHH/MIH/GIH- There are also Mandibular Inhibiting hormone (MOIH) and also ITP (Ion Transport Protein) to be part of the super family. See Ohira (2016) 1 . …from three Classes - Please elaborate on this, are these branchiopoda,. malacostraca and copepoda? (Figure 1) – How was Figure 1 generated ? Is this a phylogenetics based tree built on mitochondrial genome or it is just an illustration? Genebank nr database… What about TSA (Transcriptome Shotgun Assembly) database? As that will increase the chance that the algorithm will discover more CHH/MIH/GIH? Since you mention in the introduction "Here, we took advantage of the growing number of high-throughput crustacean datasets on public repositories to perform transcriptome mining of the CHH/MIH/GIH superfamily." Adopting the TSA database will be better suited for the MS. …and redundant contigs… Why 95%?, let's assume that CHH prepropeptide can be roughly more than 120aa. For instance, two distinct CHH in Homarus americanus CHH-A (P19806) and CHH-B (Q25154) have 127/134 aa that are similar (~95%). Will they be collapsed with CD-HIT? Page 4 Within crustacean taxa… Similarity was pretty high in Branchiopoda and Malacostraca (93% 98%), but significantly lower in Copepoda. Can you propose an explanation for that? It was previously reported that… In light of this, Veenstra (2016) 2 has some very intensive mining of CHH in multiple decapod species. Why not provide a section that compares between the number of CHH/MIH/GIH predicted from your dataset with the above study? Figure 4 - Color coding system is misleading, for instance Decapoda was assigned as teal in legends, but actually blue in the phylogenetics tree. 