In this paper the author uses a combination of data sources to study the relationship of testing and treatment for gonorrhoea and chlamydia infections and the incidence and prevalence of these infections in MSM populations. The main finding is that screening rates and incidence are positively correlated. It is an interesting idea to analyse these ecological relationships, however, as the author also acknowledges, there are many caveats for the interpretation of the results. Ecological analyses are always fraught with difficulties, as there is no information on individual level on the relationship between variables. In the data sets used in this paper the difficulties are magnified by a number of properties of the data sets used, which are not sufficiently discussed in the paper. Firstly, the EMIS data set: To understand the quality of the data about STI screening rates, one would need to know how representative EMIS respondents were for the general MSM population. How were EMIS respondents recruited, how does their sexual risk behaviour compare to other MSM study populations? Were there differences between countries participating in the EMIS survey in recruitment and representativeness? Secondly, the ECDC surveillance data set: ECDC collects data from national surveillance systems of member states in their TESSy data base. The quality and completeness of national surveillance systems is very variable between countries, and depends strongly on health care systems in the countries. In addition, given that a large proportion of all chlamydia infections and a good proportion of gonorrhoea infections are asymptomatic, reporting of these infections in surveillance systems will always reflect mainly the health seeking behaviour of the population and quality of reporting, more than the incidence of an infection. Estimating incidence from these data is difficult if not impossible, and in my opinion these data cannot be interpreted as incidence. It is therefore very plausible that numbers of notified cases increase with screening rates, which is reflected in the positive correlations, but this does not give any information about possible impact of screening on incidence. ECDC has also published a review on the impact of screening on chlamydia prevalence in Europe, which may be worthwhile mentioning in this context ( ECDC 2014 ). Thirdly, prevalence of STI in MSM who attend STI clinics: Again, it is difficult to say what these estimates mean for the prevalence in the general MSM population, as men attending STI clinics are a selected group with in general higher risk of acquiring STIs than average. What proportion of men attend STI clinics also depends on the health care system of a country and possible stigmatization of MSM in the society. It is striking that prevalence estimates are available mainly for North-Western European countries, which may be similar in their health care systems, and not for other European regions. How does the population of STI clinic patients compare with the participants of the EMIS survey in terms of sexual behaviour and health care uptake? This ecological analysis could be improved and would be more interesting, if it would include a more in-depth comparison of the study populations and a more extensive analysis of how data were collected and their possible biases. 