The authors present interesting data showing that, most likely, an unknown environmental factor or factors can qualitatively modify the behavioral responses of experimental animals on various standard stimuli (here the maternal separation stress and the Toxoplasma infection), which could result in unexpected results of standard experiments. The methods are clear and with sufficient details described, and the collected data are analyzed, presented and interpreted in a proper way. The authors suggested that the most probable factor that influenced the outputs of their experiments was (acoustical or mechanical) disturbance from a building construction project that had started adjacent to their animal facility during their experiments. This explanation seems to be reasonable, however, it would be a little bit difficult (and expensive) to test its validity. I consider the results (and conclusions) of this study to be not only very interesting, but also very important. It is highly probable that the same or similar phenomena are frequently seen by many researchers, however, they are mostly considered to be just the results of some technical error – “This new student/technician is really terrible, he certainly confused the labels on the cages/test tubes!”. We can just hope that the publication of the present paper will have the “#MeToo effect” – that it will encourage other researchers to publish their own puzzling results. I agree that the inverted-U shape (or U-shape) relations between many physiological variables is mostly responsible for frequently observed opposite reaction of a biological system on the same stimuli. Under one situation (e.g., when no building construction project is going on) the background level of stress is low and adding some stress factor, e.g., infecting animals with Toxoplasma , will shift the behavioral response toward the maximum of the inverted-U function. Under another situation, when the background level of stress is higher (when the building construction project is going on) additional stress (e.g., the infection with Toxoplasma ) will shift the behavioral response behind the maximum of the inverted-U function, which will result in an opposite behavioral reaction on the infection. In the review article on the methodological problems of studying the effects of toxoplasmosis using Toxoplasma -human model (Flegr, 2013), I showed that on genetically polymorphic outbred animals, including humans, the same factor often influences some individuals in one way and another individuals in an opposite way, depending on their (unknown) genotype. Very often, we can see that population means of the output variable in the affected individual and in the controls remains the same; however, variance of the output variable in the population of affected individuals grows significantly. For example, comparison of Cattell’s 16PF personality profiles of women showed that infected women had higher intelligence and lower guilt proneness than Toxoplasma -free women. At the same time, they differed in the variance of four other personality factors, namely protension, surgency, shrewdness and self-sentiment integration (Flegr and Havlček, 1999). It is therefore very important to study the effects of particular factors not only on population mean of the output variable but also on the variance of this variable. We should never forget that the F-test (or a permutation test performed on squared Z- scores) is not just a pesky technique for testing presumptions of parametric statistical tests, but often it can also be an important and powerful tool for detecting biologically relevant effects of the factor under study. Exactly the same mechanism can explain why males and females so often react to the same factor in an opposite way. In most animal species, males and females are not same. Therefore, many physiological parameters of males and females differ in their (mean) position in relation to the maximum of the inverted-U function. Consequently, they will respond to the same factor by the opposite-direction shifts. For example, 10 of 16 Cattell’s personality factors are shifted in an opposite direction in men and women in reaction to the Toxoplasma infection (Flegr et al. , 2000; Flegr et al. , 1996). Similarly, Toxoplasma -infected men rate the smell of highly diluted cat urine as more attractive while infected women rate this smell as less attractive than their non-infected peers (Flegr et al. , 2011). It is worthwhile in the context of the present Abdyla-Saiku et al. article to mention that our recent study showed the very opposite pattern, namely higher attractiveness of the smell in the infected women and lower in the infected men, when undiluted cat urine was used as the stimulus (Flegr et al. 2017). Back to the present article. It can be published in its present form. I would just suggest that the authors cite the old study (Vyas et al. , 2007) showing the inverted-U shaped response of infected rats on the smell of cat urine. When describing their experimental setup, the authors should better emphasize the fact that stressed mothers, not stressed pubs were used in all ethological tests. Authors should also double-check whether all Latin names of species and genera are printed in italic, both in the main text and in the References. 