In current research note, a microarray study was carried out to analyze the effect of GR24, a synthetic strigolactone analog, on the gene expression profile of rat L6 myotubes. 60 M of GR24 was used to treat L6 myotubes at 7 th day of differentiation for 24 h in three independent experiments. Microarray data was processed and differentially expressed transcripts were analyzed. Upregulated genes were partly presented in Table 1. Accordingly, GR24 upregulated the cytoprotective transcription factor Nrf2 and its several target genes involved in antioxidant defense and phase II detoxification processes. The fold values especially for GSTa1 and a2 , NQO1 , GGt1 , Hmox1 , Mtm1m , Sqstm1 were considerably and significantly high (above 6 fold). Authors previously showed that GR24 (60 M) ameliorates insulin sensitivity, stimulates mitochondrial biogenesis and ATP production and upregulates genes regulating mitochondrial function in L6 myotubes (Modi et al., 2017 1 ). Also, in this previous report it was shown that 9838 transcripts were upregulated and 6315 transcripts were downregulated in L6 myotubes as a result of 60 M GR24 treatment. Up and down regulated transcripts involved in insulin signaling and mitochondrial function in L6 myaotubes have been presented in this previous paper (Modi et al., 2017 1 ). In the present research note, authors represented up regulated transcripts involved in oxidative stress and cytoprotective signaling when myotubes were treated with 60 M GR24. Since the work can be classified as original and the results are remarkable, data deserves to be published in F1000Research as research note. However, the data is limited to reach the conclusion suggesting that GR24 may protect skeletal muscle from the toxic effects of oxidative stress and thus contributing to metabolic homeostasis. In the scope of report, there is no any biological assay or disease modelling evaluating the beneficial effects of GR24 on myotubes. Furthermore, gene expression profiling does not always reflect the changes on the protein level. Regarding these facts, title also should not contain the assumption suggesting that GR24 may protect against oxidative stress in skeletal muscle. In my opinion, both conclusion and title need revision and if possible it is better to represent additional data and interpretation in terms of down regulated genes in specified signaling pathways. Also could you please add an explanation about why you chose 60 M concentration? 