This manuscript attempts to describe the applicability and adaptability (with assumption modifications) of a recently developed computer (Excel)-based modelling tool called Portfolio-to-Impact (P21 - version 2) that has as objective to estimate the minimum funding needs (costs) to move a portfolio of target candidates (drugs or vaccines) from late stage preclinical up to phase 3 trials and estimate the number of targets with the potential to reach the launch stage. Of note, the authors mention that prior publications describe the P21 tools in detail for both Versions 1 and 2 and that a prior publication had already analyzed the application of the P21 tool using a broad portfolio of 538 PRND candidates. For this manuscript the authors use as a case study a selection of targets from the vaccine portfolio of the European Vaccine Initiative (EVI). They focus on 18 vaccine candidates (3 in preclinical, 11 in phase 1 and 4 in phase 2) and with three different categories: 15 as unprecedented vaccines (13 malaria and 2 leishmania), 2 as simple vaccines (Zika and nipah) and 1 as a complex vaccine (shigella/ETEC). As methodology, the authors compare the outputs obtained after using the original P21V2 tool assumptions (cycle time, cost and attrition rate) with a modified set of EVI assumptions. As a reviewer, I believe the paper has some potential usability and interest, especially for other PRND vaccine developers and PDPs and those with small portfolios. There are several major observations, however that require attention and/or clarification to strengthen the paper before it is to be indexed: Even though the paper highlights that the tool was developed specifically for PRNDs, it lacks more detailed information, discussion and evaluation of the bottlenecks or considerations especially when the development is being done outside HICs and the likely the challenges that would be applicable when the vaccines could be developed partly in and with LMICs organizations. The examples using the EVI portfolio still leaves unclear where the different phases are done. What if preclinical is in Europe but the clinical in Africa, would it be different the cost or probability? The model and paper don’t seem to take into consideration nor discuss the variable and unpredictable costs during vaccine development. For example, cost of goods, manufacture, proprietary components such as adjuvants, stability, regulatory, quality control costs, all needed to maintain and even replenish the clinical lots during the transition into the advanced clinical stages. It also makes no mention on the complexity of the costs, time and probability needed to continuously mature the production processes and its QC testing and reach suitability for use throughout the different clinical stages and pre-launch or post-launch. For instance, when measuring the probability and time to launch, does this take into consideration where and who would be the large-scale manufacturer? Would there also be the need for manufacturing infrastructure? Even though the manuscript speaks about using “time to launch” and “probability to launch”, this is very vague and offers no value to the reader since there is a big valley after phase 3 trials that is not discussed. The public health value proposition, business case and demand forecasting for PRNDs is a very complex system that require the involvement of multiple WHO offices and committees, GAVI and others. This should be better elaborate in the manuscript. The manuscript lacks to elaborate on the reality that even once a product enters into Phase 1 there are bottlenecks, which may require that a product returns to a preclinical evaluation stage, for example if different formulations need to be re-evaluated or alternate adjuvants need to be tested. It also is not clear about costs and time when the clinical development is in resource-poor areas where regulatory hurdles may hamper the timelines. Step 2 method description and table 3: if in the first run, the authors are using “exactly the same assumptions as P21V2 model”, it is unclear why there is also reference to two additional set of assumptions: the RAP and the BMGF assumptions. Are these readily available? If not, this would make the applicability of P21V2 obsolete especially for other PDPs and PRND vaccine developers with smaller or non-gates supported portfolios. Step 3 method description and table 4: the authors mention that the modified EVI assumptions may be unreliable because they are based only on 2-3 data points and decided to make a pragmatic decision to use only those with 10 data points. This in itself is flawed. If the objective of the authors is to showcase how the tool assumptions or a modification of tool assumptions could support vaccine producers in their forecasting exercise, the model should be based on close to reality, especially since most PRND vaccine portfolios do not contain large number of vaccine candidates or data points. The authors should address and comment on this especially since it seems the probability rates are too generous in the EVI assumptions. The disease focus of the selected portfolio is quite varied and for some (ie malaria) with multiple targets versus for some only one target. A more detail discussion on the applicability of the tool for the evaluation of 1-2 targets versus 2 targets would be very useful. 