This paper describes a tip on using the commercial software Huygens for fluorescent image processing. The authors show that a Gaussian prefilter is useful for preserving very weak signals when the data are deconvolved by Huygens, whose algorithm cannot adequately deal with such images. From a strictly scientific point of view, we think that options of image processing including the use of filters should be discussed for general algorithms not on particular commercial software packages, because they often contain hidden algorithms. Indeed, Huygens’s algorithms are not completely open. However, for most of the cell biologists who are not professional in mathematics, the use of a commercial software package for data processing is common and a tip on obtaining reasonably good-looking data may be helpful for Huygens users. We have the following comments. The deconvolution method needs be defined more clearly. Making arguments on algorithms with a black box is problematic. Can the details of maximum likelihood algorithm be disclosed, for example, by referring to a document about the method employed by Huygens? How the parameter setting was determined should also be explained. To test the effects of Gaussian blurring on deconvolution of weak signals, the authors performed simulations with a generated set of fluorescent points and PSF. We agree the signal to noise ratio is very important here. In reality, the essential difference between very small numbers of measured photons and background noise must be carefully assessed. Can the authors confirm whether similar conditions are realized on actual conditions under a microscope? The consideration on the unfavorable influence of the Gaussian prefilter is insufficient. The authors suggest using the filter routinely because it gives only a minor blurring effect on strong signals. This is too qualitative. Limitations of the range the method permits should be clearly stated. It will also depend on the purpose of measurements, whether quantitative numerical analysis is required with precision such as particle tracking and edge detection, or qualitative analysis is sufficient such as description of organelle localization dynamics. Others are minor comments. ER-decon depends on a totally different methodology and its comparison is not relevant in this paper. Although the Gaussian blur prefilter has a good characteristic, the rounding error may still cause an unexpected influence on the deconvolution algorithm when the Gaussian radius is not large enough compared to the voxel size. The authors must be aware of this and may want to mention it. 