The authors report a method for analysing the occurrence of features in a set of fingerprints that have been generated from a reference collection of chemical structures. They use this analysis to generate models for assessing the statistical significance of the tanimoto coefficients for pairs of fingerprints in the set. Using the model, they can produce a plot of significance vs tanimoto coefficient (a CDF). In the paper, the accuracy of the model is assessed by comparing the curve so produced with those created by calculating the tanimoto coefficients for pairs of fingerprints from a large random sample of the set. The correspondence between the modelled and empirical distribution functions is high. The paper is clearly laid out and relatively easy to read, if one takes the maths at face value. It is likely that it would be possible to reproduce their analysis from the information given. However, that is not strictly necessary from a practical standpoint as the authors have made the software they have developed for the analysis available as a Python module for anyone to download and use. They are to be commended for this action, which is still rare in the field of cheminformatics. It is likely to increase the impact of the paper considerably. When I read a paper of this nature, a key question I pose myself is “how, if at all, will this help me with my work?” Here I fear the authors have been less successful. For example, there is an implementation in the RDKit toolkit of the Taylor-Buttina clustering method. This is a popular way of clustering fingerprints, and hence molecules, that is widely used for things like analysis of high-throughput screening results, organising the results from a virtual screen etc. A key input parameter to the algorithm is a threshold tanimoto coefficient – all fingerprints within a cluster are guaranteed to be within this similarity of the first fingerprint placed in the cluster. The success of this method for clustering depends very strongly on the value chosen for this threshold. Too high, and one obtains an unhelpfully large number of small clusters; too low, and the clusters will be large and contain molecules without apparent similarity. It would be very useful if there were a way of taking a successful threshold for one fingerprint type and using it to decide upon a similarly successful threshold for a different type. I feel as though this paper contains a way of doing this, but it is unclear to me quite how it would be achieved with the results presented. If the authors could add to the paper an example of how one would take a CDF for one fingerprint type and use it to translate a useful tanimoto coefficient threshold for it into an equally useful threshold for a different fingerprint type, that would, in my opinion, make the paper much more valuable. 