Dijkstra Grimholt present a critical analysis of Malmstrom et al. 's 2016 Nature Genetics article 1 , which investigated the evolution of MHC I and II loci in gadiform fishes using a low coverage genomic screen of 66 species, inferring a link between adaptive immune evolution and speciation rates in this group. Dijkstra Grimholt’s criticisms are wide ranging – I deal with each of their major areas of concern below: I. MHC Class II loss in gadiform fishes. The authors highlight two serious flaws in the Malmstrom analysis, demonstrating that the original dataset contains sequence reads of MHC II and associated loci in several species that were overlooked in the original analysis. Equally importantly, datasets for several of the outgroup taxa lack these genes, raising questions concerning the reliability of the underlying data. Malmstrom et al. 's genomic screen is understandably low coverage given the taxonomic breadth of their survey, but I agree with Dijkstra Grimholt that based on the existing evidence, one cannot confidently infer the timing of MHC II gene loss in this group. II. MHC I allele counting strategy. Djikstra Grimholt challenge the allele counting strategy used by Malmstrom et al, particularly their focus on U Z loci (teleost fish have at least 5 different MHC I lineages 2 ), based on their assumption that these loci are chiefly involved in binding peptide ligands. While I agree that grouping U Z loci together simplifies their known functional complexity (I was rather confused by this approach myself when reading the original paper), here I feel that Djikstra Grimholt could be more constructive in their criticism. At present, its not entirely clear what type of analysis they would feel would be most suitable. I would also suggest providing slightly more context on the study system to assist readers who may be unfamiliar with the original work. While Dijkstra Grimholt have elsewhere provided compelling evidence that Z loci may have a very different function, its not clear whether they’re suggesting that Malmstrom et al. should have focused solely on U loci, or whether it would have been more appropriate to include all MHC lineages in their analyses. Either way, I would have liked to see whether analyzing the data in the manner preferred by the authors would impact the conclusions of the original article. I agree that experimental evidence would be necessary to conclusively demonstrate a link between allelic diversity and function, but given the taxonomic breadth of Malmstrom et al. 's study, surely they wouldn’t expect experimental evidence for all species included in the original study - How much experimental evidence would they deem sufficient? At present, its not clear whether they’re simply suggesting that Malmstrom et al. should have been more circumspect in their conclusions, or whether they feel that the results of the analysis are entirely unreliable. Clarification of this point is essential. III. Testing the relationship between MHC allelic diversity and speciation rates in gadiform fishes. The authors raise concerns on the modelling approach used by Malmstrom et al ., including their combined analysis of U and Z loci (see above), and their lack of a biologically realistic model of gene evolution, incorporating MHC gene gain and loss 3 – I agree with these criticisms. I do, however, take some issue with their contention that Malmstrom et al. 's hypothesis is wholly invalid. While there is indeed strong evidence of trans-species MHC polymorphism in some well-studied vertebrate lineages, this does not invalidate an experimental test of an alternative hypothesis. If Dijkstra Grimholt feel that Malmstrom et al. have their hypothesis “the wrong way around”, are there any data/analyses that could convince them otherwise? 