In this manuscript, Roelands et al. describe the implementation of the gene expression browser (GXB), a database and web-application integrating 13 breast cancer datasets containing gene expression and clinical data for a total of almost 2000 patients. The authors focused their case studies on the investigation of immune-related genes and subtypes and made their curated data publicly available. I think GXB is a welcome contribution to the breast cancer research community and its public availability will help other scientists to leverage this valuable collection of datasets. However, I have several concerns that need to be addressed before indexing, as listed below. The manuscript is well written and easy to understand. Major comments In Table 1 and on the front page of the web-application, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre is listed in the sample set name even though these data have not been generated in this institution, which is misleading. When selecting "Breast Cancer", which I assumed contained the whole database, many datasets got filtered out, which is confusing. I tried AURKA and selected GSE9195 as dataset. Then I played a bit with the barplot to overlay different kinds of information. I added DMFS 10Y (categorical) and sorted the patients based on this but there were some patients with very low DMFS at the beginning and the end of the plot, which is confusing. Since the authors are dealing with survival data, I was expecting survival statistics and/or survival curves but I did not see any in GXB or the manuscript. Figure 1 is somehow misleading as these plots do not seem to be part of the web-application. The authors decided to limit their database to Affymetrix data. In that case, I suggest the authors reprocess all the CEL files consistently using (f)RMA and up-to-date chip description files (CDF), such as BrainArray CDFs. This would increase the consistency across all the datasets. Given the authors' large collection of datasets, mining each dataset separately is cumbersome. Implementing meta-analysis pipelines would help draw an overall conclusion before digging into dataset-specific results (e.g., Figure 3). This is what the authors seem to have done with the "Nagalla" dataset that is a compendium of all the datasets reprocessed using MAS5 and further corrected with ComBat. It is not clear why the authors used MAS% to normalize the data in this case vs (f)RMA for some other datasets. Please clarify. Why not recommending users to first explore Nagallia before going after each dataset separately to detect trends that may be (in)consistent with the majority of the datasets? There have been many molecular subtyping schemes published, including the Integrative Subtypes (IntClust; Curtis et al, Nature 2012), the Subtype Classification Models (SCMGENE, SCMOD1, SCMOD2; Haibe-Kains et al, JNCI 2012) and the Absolute Assignment of Breast Cancer Intrinsic Molecular Subtype (AIMS; Paquet et al, JNCI 2015). The authors should discuss the rationale for their choice of relying solely on PAM50. Minor comments Table 2 would be better represented as a barplot or a similar figure. GXB would benefit from the inclusion of normal samples (from healthy patients or adjacent normal samples). METABRIC, TCGA and GTEx are relevant data sources for such gene expression profiles. 