This manuscript approaches the origins of two particularly important distributions describing abundances in biological and social populations from the perspective of mathematical invariances of their mathematical forms. The author shows in this way that Fisher’s log series distribution and Zipf’s “law” can arise in different limits of the same parameter, characterizing a family of affine transformations that includes translations and scale transformations of growth rates. The mathematical derivation is clear and elegant, so that the manuscript makes an important contribution to formal models deriving these abundance distributions. What I think would improve the manuscript is greater contact with other methods for the derivation of these same distributions of abundance and an expanded discussion of limits. Specifically: The relationship between population dynamics and invariances of the abundance (or rate) distributions could be made a little more explicit: Population dynamics models (in analogy to other dynamical systems) are mappings, tracing explicit variable transformation over time, such as changes of “position” (translations, r- a + r), or dilations (r - b r). Asking for invariances of distributions under these dynamical transformations is the usual way to derive the distributions as steady state abundances. Power laws, such as Zipf’s law, are invariant under (stochastic) dilations, for example, while Fisher’s log series are invariant under other simple types of population dynamics (as in Volkov et at 1 ). I’d appreciate a bit more discussion bridging these two approaches. As, the author shows the derivation of Zipf’s law requires not only a parameter choice (beta - 0) but also the limit of the average abundance - infinity. Without the latter, the power law exponent won’t be Zipf’s. In dynamical derivations of Zipf’s law one asks instead that geometric random motion of the population abundances, is subjected to a (“reflecting”) boundary condition for small population sizes that stops them from getting too small, as in [5]. Under what circumstances are these two additional requirements (besides transformational invariances under multiplicative growth) equivalent? They seem to have a different character as one is a limit, while the other a boundary condition—is the limiting condition on the average the most general condition? It would be interesting to describe the conditions (in terms of beta and any limits or time dependence on averages) for deriving the third distribution often invoked to describe the same abundances, the log-normal, in terms of the reasoning about invariances advanced here. This is discussed to some extent in previous work by the author, in reference [12]. I think its inclusion and discussion would benefit the current manuscript. 