Thank you for the edits to the manuscript. I do think this is a very nice case description which highlights the value of next generation approaches in the diagnosis of primary immunodeficiency disorders. My only comments are very minor. Introduction: In the Introduction section I would be review the language and grammar. For example, in the first sentence - ".... of the humoral and/or cellular immune defense mechanism"... sounds awkward. The second sentence may also sound better if you get rid of "the" which starts the sentence. The third sentence where you talk about deficiency of RAG genes being associated with SCID seems awkward. The genes encode the proteins that are deficient. In this case RAG deficiency is associated with T-B-NK+ SCID. I know what you meant, but the sentence is confusing. The next sentence mentions that mutation in RAG1 is associated absence of VDJ recombination. That is not true for all RAG1 variants as you know. Please be careful in your choices of words. The sentence where you talk about an accurate molecular diagnosis being helpful for "genetic counseling for disease" is awkward. Disease what? The last word "gene" (before the sentence "The advent...." should be plural. Lastly, you only need to define the abbreviation RAG1 once. Case: You are missing a "he" in the sentence in which you give his birth weight. Define abbreviations like HIV ELISA, AFB, etc. Also, were you able to look at mitogens? That would be useful in defining SCID. What is leuconostoc? What were the doses and timing of the DLI? Any complications such as GVHD? What was the most recent chimerism assessment? Methods: Fine. Results: You already defined RAG1. Discussion: You already defned RAG1 and SCID. Please use the definition for SCID in the discussion. I would consider "suggested" instead of "was a pointer to". I would get rid of the words "are on the" in front of the word "wane". In the second paragraph you capitalized immunodeficiency. Why? You talk about other forms of SCID such as X-SCID, Jak3, etc. Did you consider other forms of T-B-NK+ SCID? I would consider added this into the discussion.