 General comments: This study is tough to review because there is no clear scientific question being addressed and also lacks particularly novel or interesting findings. The authors claim, “The aim of this study was to provide the complete array of antimicrobial resistance genes, integrative and conjugative elements, virulence genes, pathogenicity islands, plasmids, and insertion sequences in the strains. In addition, this study also aimed to provide a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) based phylogenetic analysis of the strains.” What is unclear is what value this data array provides over the currently available genomic data. The study exclusively uses genomes that have been previously sequenced, assembled, analyzed and reported by Bwire et al. , and are publicly available in the NCBI repository under accession number SRP136117 . One could argue that having a pre-compiled dataset describing the presence/absence of antimicrobial resistance genes, integrative and conjugative elements, virulence genes, pathogenicity islands, plasmids, and insertion sequences enables faster access to important information for future researchers. If so, then why limit such reference dataset to a handful of genomes? A comprehensive database covering either all or a large proportion of the ~1300 or so publicly available V. cholerae genomes would be more appropriate for this kind of study. The original Bwire et al. , study used genome sequencing as a tool to track disease spread across geography and time. This study uses the same information to report the presence of virulence, type VI secretion, type IV secretion and pathogenicity islands. These features are present almost universally in the seventh pandemic El Tor strains of Vibrio cholerae including the one in Uganda and this study does not add significantly to what’s already known about Vibrio cholerae biology. At best, it is a re-analysis of the Bwire et al. study with specific gene feature annotations extracted and tabulated. Since this study doesn’t represent an important advance to the state of knowledge in the field, in my view, this study does not merit publication. Specific comments: The section on sample collection and sequencing should be removed. Since the biological sample collection and sequencing was not performed in this study, it is inappropriate to include those methods here. Based on the workflow outlined in fig 1, it seems that for one aspect of the study (SNP variation analysis) the authors used the original RefSeq assemblies from Bwire et al. , while for other aspects, such as looking for antibiotic resistance genes, finding plasmids etc. they generated new assemblies. The authors should explain why they used two different sets of assemblies and whether using different assemblies would generate significantly different results. Fig 2 doesn’t have a scale bar for genetic distance or a distantly related outgroup to compare against. Therefore, the distance between two strains is impossible to determine. Some claims don’t make sense. For example, in the Discussion the authors claim, “In the genomic analysis, this study confirmed the identity of the isolates, …” or “The identity of the isolates was in tandem with what was reported by Bwire et al. , 2018.” Since the genomes were from the strains that Bwire et al. sequenced, why was this ever in doubt? The authors also claim, “The presence of T6SS genes in the study isolates could explain their antimicrobial resistance gene profile. TS66-dependent killing of other bacteria is mostly directed to neighbouring cells. These consequently release their DNA, which is ultimately taken up by the killer cells and in the process, these can integrate valuable genes including those that encode antimicrobial resistance. These may consequently evolve, leading to antimicrobial resistance in the killer cells.” Several studies have demonstrated that an active T6SS can lyse neighbouring cells, release their contents and allow for horizontal gene transfer. Even though this is a potential mechanism for horizontal transfer, there is no evidence that the presence of active T6SS in these strains has led to acquisition of antibiotic resistance genes. Indeed, Vibrio cholerae strains lacking an active T6SS can also have high efficiency of natural transformation and T6SS is by no means a requirement for horizontal gene transfer in Vibrio cholerae . Alternatively, antibiotic resistance genes can also be picked up through conjugation or transduction. “The analysis for shared SNPs among the sequences and, consequently, gene enrichment revealed the enrichment in genes that mediate transmembrane-signaling receptor activity, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity, and phosphor relay response regulator activity. These play a fundamental role in quorum sensing in V. cholerae, a process of cell-cell communication that allows these bacteria to share information about cell density and adjust gene expression accordingly 23 – 25 . Quorum sensing has been documented to regulate the expression of virulence factors in V. cholerae 23 – 25 .” While it is true that the quorum sensing receptors LuxQ and CqsS have transmembrane-signaling and receptor activity as well as phosphorelay activity, the authors do not specify whether the luxQ and cqsS genes themselves carry any SNP’s. Many other two component signaling system proteins also have transmembrane-signaling and phosphorelay activity. Please avoid vague or overly general sentences like: “Similar resistance has been reported in similar studies from the East African region and elsewhere 5 , 17 – 19 .” or “This study found no plasmids or intl genes… Studies similar to this have reported similar findings 5 .” 