The authors present an interesting paper regarding the study of cytokines derived from BALF which offers the possibility to study local disease mechanisms and potential biomarkers associated with disease propagation. Most of the paper and references were dedicated to the local casual neighborhood (LCN) biostatistical approach. My main comments to develop this paper further would be to 1) display the directionality and interaction of cytokines on a correlation matrix or cluster graphic to allow for more insight regarding the relationship of these cytokines/insight into pathways, and 2) expand the clinical information about the systemic sclerosis subjects to assist the reader in understanding the generalizability to the patient population they are treating. A few constructive comments to address these concerns: Regarding citations, this institution has published before regarding certain cellular subtypes and cytokines determined in SSc BALF. It would be a strength to include these and also potentially tie into the discussion if similar or different cytokines were determined in these current analyses. Particularly, MIP-1alpha (not MIP-1delta as in current paper), was found to associate with degree of alveolitis. Cytokine concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with systemic sclerosis. Arthritis Rheum. 1997 Apr;40(4):743-51. Bolster MB1, Ludwicka A, Sutherland SE, Strange C, Silver RM. In a similar framework, these prior publications have included more SSc patient clinical data, which would be helpful to understand the subset of patients analysed and the generalizability to clinical practice. I would recommend including featured such as disease subtype (dcSSc, lcSSc), disease duration, degree of lung fibrosis or CT changes if quantified, average FVC, DLCO etc if available. 2a. In the discussion it was mentioned these were not displayed due to lack of numbers for subanalyses, which is understandable, but the general summary of these characteristics would be helpful of added to Table 1. Presenting the general cell types derived from the BALF would be helpful between SSc and controls. This may give more insight in context with cytokines found more predominately in SSc BALF. Figure 4 displays the frequency of cytokines generated with repeated analyses, although MIP-1delta and OPG are the most frequent, PARC and VEGF are not close behind. A Figure showing the Causal modeling PC algorithm for cytokines in proximity and direction to the target variable (SSc disease status) would be very instructional here. One would think PARC and VEGF might be close enough to include in the ROC curve combining these 4 cytokines. Revising Figure 3 to display directionality from the casual modeling, which is the strength of utilizing this statistical approach, would be advisable to help understand the narrow focus of just the 2 cytokines. 