This is an interesting and well conducted study that addresses a very important, and topical question. The discovery of a biomarker of osteoarthritis in the blood would be somewhat of a Holy Grail in the field and so it is important that investigators look for suitable correlations within datasets such as the Rotterdam Study. I have no major concerns with this study, but have a number of comments and also some small points that the authors may be able to clarify. A practical limitation of studies such as these, comparing biomarker level data from patients with higher levels of joint effusion already, is that OA may have already progressed to a point where a biomarker is no longer so useful. That said, on its discovery, such a biomarker would then of course be a good candidate to analyse at earlier stages of OA to then determine if it is a useful OA predictor prior to MRI-level changes. I was curious to know, if long term, these authors will be able to correlate expression levels of genes expressed in blood of healthy people which then end up with OA at a later stage? It has emerged over recent years that “osteoarthritis” probably represents a family of conditions, some of which have a strong component of inflammation and some which do not. I was not sure that the distinction between inflammation being an important contributor to all OA or just some subtypes of OA was clearly made in the introduction. My understanding is that it is the latter. The authors comment that this is a small sample size at some point. I was not really sure it was. I realise that for some GWAS, 1000s of patients are necessary to detect small odds ratios; however, I thought that if a biomarker was to be useful diagnostically, the change would have to be substantial enough that it should manifest statistically significant differences, even in just a few patients. Therefore, I felt, in the context of this study, it was an unnecessary self-criticism. I applaud the authors for already getting the new data in the GEO database, some groups take many years to upload this, which can be frustrating. I did miss, initially that this meta-analysis pertained to expression datasets uploaded in May and July 2013. Somehow (I think it was reference to RNA extraction methods), at first, I thought this had been newly acquired. Would the words “pre-existing datasets” be useful in the methods, or would most people consider the word “met-analysis” in the title means all the data is pre-existing? The definition of “significant” looked a little arbitrary to me. I know p=0.05 is arbitrary in itself, but it has been a standard for many years now. But 0.05 in 50% of samples seemed strange to me. The authors state that the overall FDR is very small, but what is it? Can it be calculated or estimated? I think the “(we won’t get false positive genes)” could be deleted? Benjamini Hochberg correction is used later in the pathway analysis, but not here in the regression/differential gene detection section. Is there a good reason for this? In the differential expression section (not the regression) “Effect Size” is not being used in the normal context I use it. Does it mean “ratio”? Table 2; the key table in the study. I felt the legend could be more helpful, and include more detail? Table 2: “Top genes”? “top” in what way? Lowest p-val? Largest change? My feeling is that the pathway analysis basically revealed no significantly enriched pathways, once you excluded multiple comparison error? I thought that was quite interesting (and negative data is of course valuable), but if I am correct in my interpretation, this is most certainly not stated clearly in the abstract or elsewhere. 