Cranford and Cooper describe a method for manufacturing cannabis cigarettes with the aim of providing a way to better control the reliability of cigarettes as a cannabinoid-delivery device. The research is conducted expertly, the methods are understandable, and the manuscript is easily readable. As a methods paper, there is sufficient detail for the reader to follow the processes described and how these were developed. I have only two concerns about this work. First, Cranford and Cooper measure particle sizes for plant material from six cigarettes (two cigarettes from each of three batches) and find that particle sizes are relatively uniform (Figure 1). However, there is a problem with their sampling procedure, which the authors themselves point out, namely that the "normalized particle distribution represents visually selected samples of the particle size range for each cigarette...". By visually selecting particle sizes, rather than random sampling, the authors bias their findings. The result is that the data shown in Figure 1 shows only how consistently these samples are selected, not the actual distribution of particle sizes within the cigarettes, nor how consistently particles of various sizes appear in each cigarette. To address this, the authors should sample particle sizes in Cranford cigarettes using random, unbiased sampling methods. A further enhancement to these results could be made by using image analysis software to determine particle sizes, which would also allow the authors to sample many more than 50 particles/cigarette (which seems like a very low proportion of the total particles available, considering the sizes of the particles relative to the cigarette). My second concern is that the effects reported are based on a fairly small number of cigarettes tested. For example, the particle size results are based on only six cigarettes (only two from each of three batches). The concern here is that the small number of cigarettes introduces too little (or, perhaps, too much) variability to know whether the results will be generalizable to large runs during manufacturing, or what the variability will be among different batches.