This is a nicely written paper by a group of renowned European Tourette experts about GTS in times of COVID-19. The authors discuss similarities of COVID-19 and tics in GTS and outline specific problems that may result from the pandemic for this group of patients. Finally, they give concrete suggestions how to advice and treat patients with GTS and their families during the pandemic. I like this small paper and find it interesting to read, since it alerts us that the current pandemic may be much more challenging for patients with GTS compared to healthy people. I have some minor suggestions the authors may take into consideration to further improve the quality of this manuscript: The authors mix the name of the virus (SARS-CoV-2) and the name of the disease caused by this virus (COVID-19). COVID-19 is simply the abbreviation of Coronavirus Disease 2019. Therefore, the authors should correct for example the heading „ Aetiology: COVID-19 (coronavirus)”. As far as I know, the correct spelling is “SARS-CoV-2” (not “SARS-Cov-2”). Also in Table 1: “Viral infection – Coronavirus 19“ please change in “SARS-CoV-2”. The authors describe the different symptoms associated with COVID-19 including neurological complications. I suggest to include recent reports on meningitis/encephalitis (for example see: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijid.2020.03.062 ) 1 . Coprolalia: according to the literature it occurs in more than 10% of patients. I suggest to include a reference here too. The authors should use the term “pandemic” throughout instead of in some cases “epidemic”. Correct “cognitive-behavioural (CBT) training” in “cognitive-behavioural training (CBT)”. Rephrase this sentence (I think the “a” must be deleted): “Touching other people is a not an uncommon complex motor tic but in the “COVID-19 climate” could also represent NOSIS (see Table 1).” Table 1: I suggest to spell “Palilalia/Palipraxia” and “Echo praxia – lalia” in the same way. I suggest to change the order: “selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)” instead of “SSRIs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors)”. 