The abstract is adequately presented. The introduction justifies the completion of the study and the methods provided allow the replication by others. The study is important in the area of knowledge of audiology, especially because from this knowledge the indication of rehabilitation can be better conducted. Bibliographic references must be updated. I understand that the best reference to justify the prevalence of hearing loss in the elderly is the global burden of disease. Other references must be updated too. Vos, T., Abajobir, A. A., Abate, K. H., Abbafati, C., Abbas, K. M., Abd-Allah, F., Abera, S. F. (2017). Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 328 diseases and injuries for 195 countries, 1990–2016: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016. The Lancet,390(10100),1211-1259.doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/S01406736(17)32154-2 1 As the text explains age-related hearing loss (ARHL) not only influences the physical and emotional activities of the elderly, but also affects their social activities and reduces their quality of life due to various factors, such as depression, social isolation, and reduced self-confidence. One of the important problems in maintaining and promoting the health and quality of life of the elderly is to maintain their independence in daily life activities and to provide suitable conditions for them to continue an active and independent life. I think that the application of questionnaires that evaluate the limitations and restrictions in the activities of daily life is of great importance. Tests in controlled situations that do not represent daily activities may not show the improvement targeted by the training. Therefore, I believe that it is very important to apply questionnaires that assess the quality of life and the limitations and restrictions in activities of daily living before and after auditory training. If it is not possible to include this type of evaluation, consider these aspects when discussing the results and the possible applicability of the proposed training. 