 General comments Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. I have reviewed the text and figures. However I am not an expert on IT/computing and so have not commented on the details of the SQL and PYTHON code in the repositories. This paper describes the curation and linking of two databases containing information on patients treated on intensive care units in Bristol. The first database (ICCA) contains detailed information on patients’ stay in a single Trust’s intensive care unit collected as part of routine care. The second contains data submitted on the same patients to a national comparative audit programme (ICNARC CMP). The manuscript is well written and is clear. Similar challenges have been addressed elsewhere (notably by the CCHIC teams in the UK and the MIMIC-III team in the USA), though there is very little detailed information on the processes and problems these teams encountered which has been published. This paper addresses some of the lack of detail. The paper contains descriptions of the curation and linking processes. There are no data linked directly to the paper, as publishing identifiable patient data is not permitted. However, contact details are given to allow interested researchers to explore obtaining appropriate permissions to interrogate the data. In general the paper is informative and useful. It might benefit from a brief comment on how generalisable these methods are to other patient groups where highly granular data are collected such as patients treated in Emergency departments, or those undergoing surgery or invasive procedures. Minor detailed comments The sentence on ICNARC’s origin should probably be modified to read “The Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre (ICNARC) is an independent national charity originally set up with funding from the Department for Health and the Welsh Health Common Services Authority in 1993” as funding now comes from different sources. “Barrier 3: Data privacy”. The MIMIC-III and eICU programmes are able to share data publically and they are anonymised. There is no mention of this approach and the difficulties with true anonymisation, this paper rather assumes data will be accessed using ethical approvals. It might be helpful to emphasise that the XML file format that Wardwatcher software uses to export ICNARC CMP data is common to all the different software packages used to collect ICNARC data, and is not a software-specific format. Use of intensive care as adjective (eg “…intensive care EHR data”) is common in published papers but is probably best avoided. Supplementary material graphics comments Discharge reasons bar chart: No X axis labels. Discharge time histogram: X axis labels at 5h 33m 20s intervals. Why this unusual spacing? Stay length: Unusual to use logged Y axis for these graphs though I assume this is because of the high frequency of single day stays. Variables histogram 1: FiO 2 is fractional, not %. Units needed for heart rate, haemoglobin, respiratory rate, SpO 2 , and blood pressures on X axes. Variable histograms 23: Attention to all X axis units as above. SI notation for partial pressures (P0 2 , PCO 2 ) uses a capitalised “P”. 