This article contributes valuable insight into issues that are commonly observed in literature regarding the impact of adolescent Δ 9 -tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure on future drug-seeking behavior. Particularly, careful attention is directed towards the influence of sex (including estrous cycle) and animal strain on modulation of drug-seeking behavior by adolescent THC administration. These crucial factors likely contribute to conflicting findings reported on the influence of exogenous and endogenous cannabinoids on future drug consumption, and Keeley and colleagues illustrate the necessity of implementing sex and strain variables in experimental designs when addressing such research questions. As such, the authors’ findings provide a more informative story that will be useful in guiding legislation on marijuana use policies. The introduction of this article provides clear explication of hypotheses and expected results as well as suitable background information that warrants investigation of the authors’ research questions. However, there are some minor issues regarding the presentation of methods and statistical results. Additionally, there are some aspects of the discussion that could benefit from citation of supporting literature. Methods In the statistical analysis section, the authors indicate that effect size and statistical power would be reported for all results (pg. 5), yet these data are not provided when presenting results in text. The analytical approaches utilized by the researchers are appropriate for the data; although, brief explanations of post-hoc statistical tests should be included. It is stated in the Subjects section (pg. 3), that all rats were purchased and shipped from Charles River. However, in the first paragraph of the discussion, the authors allude to an effect of rearing environment on d-amphetamine sensitivity. Specifically, Long Evans females bred in-house showed CPP to the 0.7 mg/kg dose, but this was absent in Long Evans females obtained from a commercial breeder. These data are valuable and should be included, but the analyses do not appear anywhere in the manuscript. Inclusion of an experimental timeline would increase the clarity of the researchers’ methodological approach. It would also provide a useful model for future researchers interested in testing the effects of THC administration on the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse. Given that an observer scored dwell time in the CPP chambers, it would be beneficial to include the familiarity of the observer with animals’ drug treatment group. In other words, were the observers blinded to treatment conditions? The authors state that 3 doses of D-amphetamine were used, but only 2 doses are listed (0.5 and 0.7 mg/kg). We assume that the third dose is the vehicle (0 mg/kg), but that should be explicitly listed in the Methods (see pg. 3). Results The results are clearly and concisely stated, and the provided figures summarize the data well. However, Table 1 referenced in the “Experiment 1: Determination of a subthreshold dose of d-amphetamine” section and Table 2 referenced in the “Experiment 2: CPP to a sub-threshold dose of amphetamine” section are not provided in the article (see pg. 5). In the caption for Figure 1, there is a space inserted into the word “Note”. Also in this caption it is stated that mean and “SEE” are provided. Presumably this was supposed to read SEM. The authors state that estrous cycle did not have any effect on the results (pg. 5). However, with only an N=8, it may simply be that there was not sufficient power to detect any differences. This should be briefly mentioned as a potential caveat. Discussion On pg. 8, the authors indicate that “this study does not support a link between adolescent THC exposure and sensitivity to other drugs of abuse…”. Given that only sensitivity to d-amphetamine was assessed, it may be more reasonable to conclude from the provided results that adolescent THC exposure does not enhance sensitivity to d-amphetamine specifically. On pg. 7 – 8, the authors suggest that “…given the increased abuse of prescription opiates, research examining the interplay between the endogenous cannabinoid and opioid systems could potentially prevent the transition of using marijuana to opiates.” This is an exciting prospect for future research, and some progress has been made in this regard. The authors may find it useful to include conclusions from Markos et al., (2017) 1 in which cannabidiol is shown to attenuate morphine CPP in mice. 