In this report, Lee uses a Bayesian latent class model to estimate the specificity and sensitivity of QuickVue Point-Of-Care-Test for Influenza A B. The author concludes that, based on his retrospective analysis of two studies (Gordon et al, 2009; Harnden et al, 2003), the sensitivity of the POCT test is much higher than expected, in major part due the to the gold standard used for comparison. Major Issues 1. The introduction is an oversimplification of the actual knowledge and match the style of an editorial much closer than an actual overview of the field. Many key points are not addressed: The introduction does not discuss of the most likely cause of heterogeneity of the sensitivity of Influenza POCT (patient age, duration of symptoms, type of specimen, season of sampling, etc.) The introduction does not highlight that a positive test is able to ''rule in'' an influenza infection which is of clinical significance for therapy initiation, infection control, reduction of ancillary tests, etc. The introduction does not report any information on the gold standard test for influenza diagnostic in regards to advantage, limitation and turnaround. The usefulness of the approach is not well anchored and raises concerns about the clinical or biological significance or usefulness of the anticipated results The rationale for the study is now well established by the information provided and, as such, it is difficult for the reader to understand the logical flow of ideas. Many key references are missing 2. The methods section is missing key elements There is no information about the data that were extracted from the two selected studies There is no information about the methods of inclusion of the two selected studies There is no information or reference towards the method used to assess the risk of bias of the two selected studies such as QUADAS-2 or else. 3. The discussion is missing several key elements The discussion is missing references for many of the statements made in this section. As an example, ''The classical results for QuickVue presented here are typical''. The statement should be backed up by a reference and a comparison such as a meta-analysis of POCT. There is no discussion about other gold standard test and how POCT performs against them. The first paragraph makes a cookie-cutter conclusion that is well outside the scope of the present study. The second paragraph does not discuss the limitation of a clinical RT-PCR appropriately. The contamination of a diagnostic sample, as the only example used by the author, is far from reflecting why RT-PCR might be too sensitive, in regards to clinical significance and benchmarking, as a gold standard test for influenza testing. The authors does no report or discussion of the limitation of the Gordon et al. and Harnden et al. studies and conclude, without substance, that both study are remarkably similar. The last paragraph is an oversimplification of the results presented and does not account for various limitations of the study. Minor point The 2x2 tables of the data extracted from the two selected studies are not provided. It makes it difficult to replicate the results. As an example, Gordon has 2 stratified data sets available based on clinical presentation (Table 2. n=1157 and n=578). It is unclear which data were used. Conclusions and Recommendations It is the opinion of the referee that, while the paper raise an interesting idea and novel approach, the paper is of limited significance because it presents major drawbacks and pitfalls. We suggest that the author review the comments made thereof to improve the study design and the overall presentation and content of the paper.