Authors show an interactive visualization tool for a very common data type used for many of the packages in Bioconductors (SummarizedExperiment). It has enough flexibility to explore all kind of information the object can contain, an interactive tool based on Rshiny, is customizable so it can be adapted to each user. I only have minor some comments: Tutorial 2: step 10 gets the text box in the upper left of the windows, but I think it should be at other position since it says to change the y-axis of the plot. I think this happens when the user doesn't follow the instruction to click on to some button that should expand the menu with more options. It would be nice the tour re-start from the position it was left, with an option to start over. It happened many times that I click accidentally outside the box and I had to start over. In the cases the object doesn't have reducedDim for more than the 2 dimensions shown in the plot. I tried to use 3, and it gave an error. Maybe a more informative error would help the user to understand that there is no that information. I am not totally sure how to use the rintrojs package to generate a tool. It would be nice a reference to some documentation on how to do it or clarification if I am not understanding this correctly. For the features mentioned like code tracking and additional functionality, it would be nice to have a link to the vignette in the paper so the user can jump into how to get it done. I think it would be nice to make available a docker image with all the requirements to run iSEE installed. It would promote the use of the tool a lot among bioinformaticians working with non-computational researchers. It is nice to change the color for all the variables. I would add an example on how to change the palette for all categorical since the code would be slightly different than the one for continuous variables. It would make the user quickly using that option and avoid silly errors. I don't know if this is possible as it is right now, but it could be an option to load a RDA/RDS file containing the SE object instead of creating an app only for that data? That would open the door to deploy the tool independent of the data. For instance, I can see a scenario where iSEE is installed in a docker container, where the user just starts the image and when opening the browser at localhost:8787, there is an option to load a file with the object. Congrats on the tools! 