The manuscript by Freeman et al. presents the results of a systematic review on changes in quality of life (QoL) and the economic burden of chronic kidney disease (CKD). The authors performed a search in several databases, collected valuable information and made important conclusions. However, there are several issues that should be improved or further detailed, as explained below: In the “Introduction” the authors refer to a meta-analysis on CKD prevalence suggesting 11-13% of population having the disease. A more recent study on global CKD prevalence is available that estimates the CKD prevalence as substantially lower 9.1% ( https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30045-3) . It is unclear why the authors limited their systematic search by May 2017. The search strategy (described in detail in the supplement at https://figshare.com/articles/Freeman_et_al_Supplementary_content_1_Table_S1/10011476 ) has a potential pitfall of low sensitivity because it applies exclusion of bibliographic records based on the presence of the word “acute” in a title or an abstract. However, in the abstract of data sources describing the QoL or economy of CKD the word “acute” could occur just to identify that acute kidney diseases were not considered in a given data source. The exact influence of this feature applied by the authors is not known, but it should be discussed in the “Limitations” as a potential reason for lowering search strategy sensitivity, or additional searches should be performed to demonstrate this feature has not led to the exclusion of useful data sources. The “Methods” indicates that “Abstracts and titles identified were screened by an independent reviewer”, while the current recommendation is to perform screening by 2 reviewers in order to lower the risk of selection bias or a human error. The phrase “Owing to a large number of citations meeting these criteria, a decision was taken to restrict the extraction of data from eligible studies.” in the “Methods” is not clear and should be explained in detail. . The authors screened congress abstracts, but stated that “This meant that, although congress abstract screening was performed, no data from congress abstracts were extracted.” It would be more logical not to mention congress abstracts at all if they have not been used. In the inclusion criteria, the authors listed CKD stages from 2 to 5, and it is unclear why they excluded CKD stage 1. They also stated that the inclusion criteria was “eGFR 75 mL/min/1.73 m2”, but this threshold is very unusual since it does not corresponds neither to KDOQI nor to KDIGO classifications (which use threshold eGFR 60 mL/min/1.73 m2), and thus the criteria used by the authors identified both healthy persons (with eGFR60) and CKD patients (with eGFR 60) but excluded persons with eGFR75 who represent a majority of the general population. The authors identified a list of countries they used as the inclusion/exclusion criteria but this list is not inclusive: it includes some countries of Western Europe but not others, it includes China but not includes Taiwan which has great data on the topic. All these methodological pitfalls decrease the value of the review and its results, and should be explained in the “Methods” and discussed in the “Limitations”. In the “Results” it is stated that “plus 79 abstracts identified in supplementary searches”, but in the “Methods” the authors indicated they excluded abstracts from the consideration. “Figure 2” could be presented as a table, without repetition of some rows’ headings. At figure 3 the labels “dialysis-dependent CKD” and “dialysis-dependent ESKD” leave some doubts on how the authors use the terminology. The authors describe the included studies in the “Results” but perform this in a way that certainly requires improvements. First, it is much better to present all studies in a structured table than in a less-structured text with only some highlights from the included papers. Second, it would be better to group the included papers by whether they consider only pre-dialysis CKD or only ESKD. Neither the main text nor the supplements do not provide enough details of the included papers in this structured way. The presentation of “Results” looks more like a listing of the studies but not an exhaustive summary and detailed analysis. I would suggest to put the majority of the extracted data into the tables as described above, and use the “Results” to indicate the most important findings or patterns as already partially done. The “Discussion” consists of only the authors’ text and does include only one reference, even without appropriate citation. Actually, the “Discussion” in its current view is more similar to “Conclusion”. In any way, the “Discussion“ should be strengthened. 