This investigation incorporated three components to improve the control of Aedes aegypti , mosquito vector of dengue, Chikungunya and Zika viruses, in a remote urban community in Guatemala. The three components were; use of web-based training in vector control for local health personnel, the development of mosquito ovitraps made locally out of used tires and evaluation in a trapping survey and community engagement activities. The authors are commended on the performance of a mosquito trap made from a common waste item that normally contributes to mosquito production. The new traps, referred to as ovillantas, caught more eggs per site, per device, than standard ovitraps. Although the title refers to the control of Ae. aegypti , which is the theme throughout the manuscript, the studies presented are not specifically tailored to measuring the success of the components in the context of Ae. aegypti control (mosquito population reduction). For component one; web-based education of health workers; a knowledge, action and practice (KAP) survey of the knowledge of health workers before they undertook training could have assisted to determine the changes due to the training module. For component two; data for the counts of mosquito larvae/pupae in different mosquito traps over time is presented within treatment communities. While this provides promising data on the effectiveness of ovillantas as trapping tools, there are no indication that the trapping had the effect of reducing the mosquito population. Ecological ovillantas may prove to be excellent tools for monitoring mosquito population numbers in resource limited settings, however more work is needed to establish their ability to reduce mosquito population sizes. The authors attempted to asses the effect of their intervention on mosquito control by examining Dengue seroprevalence data, however low case numbers were reported in official records and these are likely to be underestimates, limiting this approach. Adult mosquito trapping would be another avenue to monitoring mosquito population changes. For component three, several themes were identified among socioeconomic issues affecting mosquito control, however future studies will be required to measure resulting improvements in community engagement. In summary, a multi-component strategy towards the control of Ae. aegypti is presented that incorporates training of health workers in vector control, a new mosquito ovitrap constructed from recycled materials and community engagement activities. While an increase in trapping efficacy is demonstrated for the ovillantas, it is difficult to gauge the effectiveness of these components on Ae. aegypti control from this study alone. The title and theme may be better presented as "development of strategies towards the control of Ae. aegypti ". I am hopeful that improved Ae. aegypti control can be demonstrated from future application of these interventions. 