The dynamics of proteasome composition and subcellular distribution is an important subject with far-reaching implication. Recently, substantial progress has been made on this subject, while many open questions remain. It is therefore of considerable value that Chowdhury and Enenkel have summarized and commented the current literature on this subject in this nice and timely review. I have only a few comments that should be easy to address: In the second paragraph of the introduction it is stated that long-lived proteins are degraded in the lysosome, whereas short-lived proteins are degraded by the proteasome. While experimental data suggest that this is true for the bulk of the proteins in S. cerevisiae (e.g. Lee and Goldberg,1996 ), there is evidence from inhibitor studies with mammalian cells indicating that also long-lived proteins are among the proteasome substrates ( Rock et al. 1994 ). Thus, while the statement in the introduction goes in the right direction, it would be better to soften it a bit. The sentence mentioning that Ump1 is a natively-disordered protein refers to papers from 2008. Reports that provided the first data supporting this notion, however, where published in 2013 by two independent groups (see below). Therefore, I would suggest to refer to these references in this context Ref.1: S-Moura B, S.A., Fraga J, Fernandes H, Abreu IA, Botelho HM, Gomes CH, Marques AJ, Dohmen RJ, Ramos PC, Macedo-Ribeiro S. Biochemical and Biophysical Characterization of Recombinant Yeast Proteasome Maturation Factor Ump1 . Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal 7, e201304006 (2013) Ref 2: Uekusa, Y. et al . Backbone H, C and ⁵N assignments of yeast Ump1, an intrinsically disordered protein that functions as a proteasome assembly chaperone . Biomol NMR Assign (2013). The structural data on 15S precursor complex were not obtained via cryo-EM but rather by negative stain EM (reference Kock et al. 2015). When the authors discuss that the alpha ring of the 15S precursor complex is more relaxed and that would support the idea that the NLS would be more available for transportation from the cytoplasm into the nucleus, the authors have not considered or discussed the location of the chaperones Pba1-Pba2, that covers the surface corresponding to the pore of the 20S proteasome and thus would hide the NLS in this precursor form. I suggest to consider this point in the respective discussion and possibly to add Pba1-Pba2 to the 15S precursor cartoon shown in figure 1. It is mentioned (in the paragraph on Nuclear import of proteasomes during proliferation) that several groups found mislocalization of the CP to the cytoplasm, but no references are provided to support this notion. It does not become entirely clear whether the authors propose that PSG and JUNQ are different names for one and the same compartment. Some of the remarks seem to suggest that, but this question is not explicitly raised and addressed. Maybe the authors could clarify this issue and their view on it a bit more. While the authors describe PSGs as follows: yeast proteasomes gather in proteasome storage granules (PSGs) at the nuclear envelope (NE) and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane, from which with prolonged quiescence pinch off the NE into the cytoplasm, in the study that originally coined the term PSG (Laporte et al. 2008), they were defined as motile cytoplasmic structures that are not associated with specific organelles or any detectable membrane. In fact, these PSGs were distinguished from locations of proteasomes at or close to the nuclear periphery (e.g. Figure 2B of that study). It thus appears as if Chowdhury and Enenkel use a different or wider definition of PSGs than the one used originally by Laporte et al., which is relevant to the previous issue (6.). If so, it would be helpful to propose and explain the reasons for such an expansion of the definition of PSG. It is probably not ideal to describe PSGs as organelles. While the entire process of ubiquitylation is ATP-dependent, of the three types of enzymes involved, only E1 is an ATP-dependent enzyme, E2 and E3 are not. 