In the manuscript the author documents various instances of lognormal distributions of several neuronal parameters across brain areas. The description then serves as motivation for an intriguing investigation of possible underlying mechanisms responsible for creating such distributions. In particular, combination of Hebbian learning with homeostatic adaptation in a simple model is sufficient to recreate the observed distributions of firing rates, synaptic weights, and gains. The presented combination of data and modeling is interesting. The model itself is presented in sufficient detail. However, some statements throughout the text seem to be too strong given the evidence. I suggest rephrasing the strong statements and conclusions to better reflect the presented data and model. After minor changes the manuscript certainly will be of interest to experimenters as well as modelers. Comments: 1. Strong statements Many a strong statement is sprinkled throughout the manuscript. I suggest modifying such statements to reflect evidence presented in the manuscript itself and the cited literature. For example: Abstract: "Logarithmic scale distribution of weights and gains appears as a functional property that is present everywhere." The author probably meant to say "everywhere we looked." Introduction: "...lognormal distributions can only be maintained by Hebbian-style, not homeostatic adaptation." There might be a plethora of other mechanisms (not studied in the manuscript) that could lead to lognormal distributions. The fact that Hebbian learning is sufficient does not mean it is also necessary. Similarly, here: "The answer is that the attested distribution of intrinsic gain can only derive from a Hebbian style adjustment rule, even though additional homeostatic adaptation is possible. Intrinsic plasticity is Hebbian". 2. Methods section The Methods section presents a mix of Methods, Introduction, and Results. I suggest refining the section and moving some results into Results. For example, descriptions of various datasets could be easily incorporated into Results, especially when they actually contain new data - "We extend this dataset by recordings from different types of cortical neurons..." (p. 3). 3. Lognormal fits Presented distributions of various neuronal parameters do appear lognormal, with a few exceptions, as correctly pointed out in the text. It is also unlikely that exponential distribution would provide a better fit to any of presented examples. There are, however, other distributions which might , or might not, fit the data better? Was the goodness-of-fit evaluated in any way, or were other types of distributions considered? A brief statement along these lines would further improve this interesting manuscript. 4. Minor comments p. 3 - "The distribution of spike rates for neurons spiking in the absence of synaptic input...". I believe it is highly unlikely that spontaneous rates in-vivo arise in the absence of synaptic inputs. Unless controlled---such as in slices, in neuronal cultures, etc.---neurons will receive barrages of input activity even in the absence of experimental stimulation. p. 7 - "...populations I, J with each n = 1000 neurons..." should be "...populations I, J each with n = 1000 neurons..." p. 8 - "The output R^J may BE used as input..." 5. Minor changes to figures Fig. 9 caption needs description of color arrows. A simple statement, such as "J (excitatory, blue arrows) and H (inhibitory, red arrows)", would suffice. What is the meaning of colors in Figs. 10 and 11? If there is any, please state so in the caption. If there isn't, please state so as well. The two 'sheets' in Fig. 10 are almost indistinguishable. If colors have no results-related meaning, it might be helpful to plot the bottom sheet (for example) in slightly different colors. 