The authors aim to assess the prevalence of S. aureus nasal carriage and S. aureus nasal carriage phenotypes among medical students in Colombia, and to examine whether S. aureus nasal carriage is associated with composition of the nasal microbiome. S. aureus nasal carriage among medical students and health care workers may represent a source for transmission of the microbe and infection in susceptible patient groups. S. aureus carriage is partly determined by interactions with other members of the microflora. According to the authors, this is the first study analyzing simultaneously the bacterial and fungal communities in the nares of healthy medical students with a Hispanic/Latino background. The study was done among second-year medical students at the same university during a six months period in 2018. The authors collected five repeated nasal swabs for S. aureus culturing from 143 students, and an additional nasal swab for microbiome analysis from a random sample of 15 students having different S. aureus carriage phenotypes. Using only data from the first set of nasal swabs, they report a prevalence of S. aureus carriage of 28%. Using data from all five time points, they report that 20% are persistent carriers. They show that nasal samples from persistent carriers had higher bacterial and fungal diversity than intermittent carriers and non-carriers, however not statistically significant. S. aureus carrier groups could not be separated by bacterial or fungal diversity. The manuscript is generally well written and the results are easy to read from tables and figures. The classification of S. aureus carriage phenotypes by repeated sampling in a relatively large sample is a major strength. The analysis of S. aureus carriage in relation to the microbiome is timely and relevant. However, the present study has some limitations that should be addressed. Microbiome data was collected at the end of the study among 15 students within the three S. aureus carriage phenotype groups. It would be interesting to know more about the stability of the nasal microbiome over time. Did the authors consider taking nasal swabs for microbiome analysis at another time point, e.g. at “baseline” when the first set of swabs for S. aureus culturing were taken? Please, consider rephrasing the sentences in Discussion page 9 “Here, a more diverse…microbiome ..seems to favor S. aureus carriage.” and “Our results also suggest that Candida species may favor the long-term S. aureus colonization of human nares.”, as the design of the present study may not be in line with these interpretations. Please, explain why the microbiome analysis was limited to five students in each group. Did the authors perform any power analysis? S. aureus nasal colonization was assessed at five different time points. Could these data have been used to estimate S. aureus prevalence? Abstract : The authors may consider a more consistent use of terminology; e.g. patterns of S. aureus nasal carriage or patterns of S. aureus colonization. First part of conclusion can be moved to results. Introduction : The first sentence may be modified as the anterior nares are important due to several functions. Methods : Five nasal swab samples for S. aureus culturing were collected with three weeks intervals. Please, describe how information about factors defined in exclusion criteria was collected and updated during the minimum 12 weeks period; e.g. recent infections, antibiotic use. Please, describe the procedure for specimen collection in more detail; i.e. how did the authors standardize the collection method, who did the sampling and where? The nasal swab for microbiome analysis was kept at room temperature and transported to New York, USA, for analysis. Please, include information about transport time and stability of the material from collection to laboratory analysis. Results : It would be interesting to know more about the characteristics of the study population for comparison with other studies; e.g. sex, age- and BMI distribution. Results and figures: Please, include “statistically” when referring to the results of statistical tests; i.e. statistically non-significant. 