Overall, this is a well-written article on the development of HRM for identification of different species of mosquitoes. The authors also mentioned about the limitations of the study. However, the six pairs of primers used in this study did not seem to have clear directions or purpose. Did the authors want to come out with a pair of universal primers to differentiate all the clinically important mosquito species mentioned in the article? Or one specific primer pair for each genus of mosquitoes? Or there is other intention? Although the authors showed the ability of primer pairs to discern some mosquito species, for instance, COI-AnophF/HCO2198R could distinguish Mansonia spp., Aedes spp. and Culex spp., how about the species of the same genera that could not be discriminated? It would be more focused and directional if the primer pairs are genus-specific. Methods: It would be great if the clinical importance of or disease transmitted by each mosquito genus/species is listed in Table 1 and Table 2 so that the readers understand the significance of discriminating the mosquito species. Please mention the T m for each primer in Table 3. Please elaborate more on the primer design: on what basis the authors design the primers and for what reason they want to amplify those regions with amplicon sizes mentioned in Table 3. What was the amount of DNA template used for HRM analyses? Results: Please show the limitation of detection for each assay in the detection of each mosquito species. Was auto-calling mode used for clustering? What was the confidence interval? Please mention the mean T m for each species with standard deviation. Figure 2A, B, D: There was only one sample of C. tenagius included in the analysis. It is difficult to conclude the melting profile of this species if there was only one sample available. In Table 1, COI-AnophF/HCO2198R has been shown to be able to separate Cx. tenagius from Cx. antennatus , Cx. pipiens from Culex sp. GPA , and Cx. neavei from Cx. duttoni . Since I am not an expert in mosquitoes, is there any specific reason the authors wanted to report the separation between two species of Culex rather than reporting it as a separation between all species? In Figure 2A, the melt curves of Cx. antennatus , Cx. neavei , Culex sp. GPA and Cx. pipiens looks closely apart and hard to differentiate. Was the clustering auto- or manually called? What was the confidence interval if it was auto-called? What is the possibility of all these species being present or analysed at the same time? It would be hard to differentiate them if all of them are present in a same run of HRM analysis. How do the melt curves of the unseparated species appear as compared to those in the same genus which could be differentiated? For instance, Cx. perexiguus vs. Cx. tenagius , Cx. antennatus , Cx. pipiens , Culex sp. GPA , Cx. neavei and Cx. duttoni . And also melting curves of Aedeomyia ( Ad. africana and Ad. furfurea ), Mimomyia ( Mi. hispida and Mi. splendens ) and Coquillettidia ( Cq. aurites , Cq. chrysosoma , Cq. fuscopennata , Cq. metallica , Cq. microannulatus , Cq. pseudoconopas and Cq. versicolor ) species (Table 4) or among An. funestus and An. coustani species complexes, which could not be differentiated in this study. In Figure 4, intraspecies variation in the target sequence is seen, for instance, in the four strains of Ma. africana . Although the authors did mention on Page 6 “Although there are SNPs within species DNA that resulted to the slight changes observed in their HRM profiles, the SNPs across species were enough to distinguish between them”. I am not sure how confident it is to employ these assays in the presence of intraspecies variations, plus the sample size may be too small to validate the assays. Figure 5: please revise the figure legend. Discussion: On page 8, 2 nd paragraph, the authors mentioned “Surprisingly, HRM analysis of PCR products from the COIAnophF/HCO2198R primers, which were designed for Anopheles, could not distinguish between these sibling species….” Can the authors explain the possible reason for this? Again, since I am not a mosquito expert, are the mosquitoes of the same genus morphologically identical? If the assays are successfully developed, are the mosquitoes going to be morphologically identified prior to subjecting them to HRM analysis? How are the authors going to decide which primer pairs to use later in the mosquito identification? 