This is a very interesting article that thoroughly examines the behaviour in monkeys using behavioural testing and reinforcement learning models. Monkeys perform a task where they can choose between two targets associated with variable rewards. The monkeys show approximate matching of the reward ratios in their choices, even though this is not optimal in the present task. The authors carry out an exhaustive modelling effort to characterize the matching behaviour, its difference from an optimized behaviour based on RL, and the parameters that give rise to non-optimality in the choices. Based on these efforts, they conclude that a significant source of non-optimality may be in the noise of internal value representations. Overall the paper is very nicely done it is well written and I greatly appreciate the thoroughness of the modelling efforts. I have several suggestions that may improve it: By design, the authors provided the monkeys with reward magnitudes that varied in a complicated fashion in order to prevent stereotyped behaviors. However, above and beyond this variability, the *reward ratios* fell into only 4 distinct categories. Given enough training the monkeys could, in principle, have learnt these categories and used some stereotyped strategies to switch between them. The success of the RL- model in capturing the data seems to make this possibility unlikely but this is not conclusive and there should be some explicit analysis of this possibility. At present there is no mention of the length of training (or even, in the data provided on the website, of the *session* from which a trial came from). These are important details to include. Echoing the comment of reviewer 1, the conclusion that the source of suboptimality is in neural noise seems overdone. This is *one* possible explanation that lends itself to an elegant model, but the mapping function between behavior and neural activity is complex, and many other schemes are possible. The authors should discuss these alternative schemes. I found the Introduction a bit difficult to follow. Although individual paragraphs are well written, I was not clear where the entire narrative was going. The analysis (in the Results) focuses on non-optimal choice strategies and their possible neural bases and the Introduction should be re-arranged to bring out this theme. 