Title: I suggest to modify "Growth performance, survival rate and moulting frequency of blue swimming crab (Portunus pelagic, Linnaeus, 1978) fed on varying level of vitamin E Introduction: The introduction is lack of state of the arts of the study on blue swimming crab and vitamin E. Therefore, the author must emphasize and cite the current studies or previous findings by other researchers on blue swimming crab and the role of vitamin E on crab or aquatic organism. There was no clear objective of the study. So please state the objective clearly at the end of introduction section. Methods: Fish Seed Centre Beach is not appropriate term of BBIP., need to change. Where the crab is come from? The author should mention whether the feed used is a commercial diet or experimental diet (formulated by researcher for this study). And also the proximate composition of the diets are unclear. So the author must present the composition of the nutrition content (proximate composition) of the tested diet, maybe presented in the table would be better. How the procedure to mix the vitamin E with the diet? Existing: The method used in this study was completely randomised design methods with ......" Suggestion: The completely randomised design method with ...was used in this study" Results: Table 1 is unclear. The author stated table 1 presented the data of percentage of moulting female brood stock. Actually, The percentage value should be ranged 0-100%. But the author provided the value between II - IV. In my understanding this is not percentage data, but this is the maturity stage of ovary. The authors have to clarify. The author should mention the results of the ANOVA test whether the experiment gave the significant effect on measured parameters or not. And the author also have to mention briefly the differences values (data) among the treatments (based on Duncan's multi rage test). Please see superscript after the value. Discussion: In general the discussion is already acceptable, but maybe the author has to cite more references to support the discussion, especially from reputable related journals. Conclusions: The conclusion should be clear and strong if possible. Your conclusion should be focused on the objective. 