 General comments: This manuscript studies the relationship between social vulnerability index and healthy use of leisure time. The manuscript can be considered as a case study, as it focuses only on the Argentinian population. Some information is missing in order to understand better what authors would like to show, and they also need to improve the interpretation of the results obtained at the discussion section. Please, find my specific comments that can help authors. Specific comments: Abstract: Even it is known what ICT means, I suggest to add what it means in words. Introduction: This section can be considered somehow weak. Concerning schools, it is missing information about how school schedule is in Argentina, for example, how long children are staying at school daily; is it the same schedule for primary, secondary and high school? Do they have all afternoon free, or some of them? Do they have more than one turn (morning turn and afternoon turn? It could be interesting to know about public/private schools, because sometimes their schedule is different, and if some activities are included into the daily schedule. In fact, the survey asks about the timetable they have at school, but has not been considered. Updated data from other countries (not only Latin American) are missing, just to compare and discuss later about them. It could be of interest to conceptualize what health is, and how leisure time can be healthy, not only physically (aerobic, strength, body composition, etc), but also from a functional, psychological and social point of view. Methods: It could be interesting to explain more about how data collection was done. Searching the original survey [spanish] it is understood that it is not intended to know about leisure time (only one block of questions, of a total of 28, asked about it), but to know about their working activities. Perhaps, because of that, this information is not enough to interpret when analysing data. It is suggested, as well, to annex the survey, even it is in Spanish. If it is a self-administered survey, all the questions were the same for all the children and adolescents (5-17 years old)? If there were the same, for a 5 year old child it can be difficult to answer some (or all) the questions, so it is needed to know who helped them to answer. Moreover, authors presented a number of participants that did not know how to read and write, so who answered? In fact, the item 29 of the survey asks about the adult’s participation when answering, but, was a parent, older brother/sister, relative, baby sit…? Was there an age cut-off point considered when receiving support for answering? Did the survey taker participate, as well? All these aspects make the methods confusing for getting the data. Was it really a self-administered survey or there was a survey taker? As the data studied were obtained from the 2012, co-authors should state if there was or not a later survey that explores leisure time. More than 5 years could give different results. In fact, in the website, there is another survey applied during 2016-2017 obtaining data concerning children’s and adolescent’s work activities ( https://www.indec.gov.ar/ftp/cuadros/sociedad/eanna_2018.pdf )[Spanish] Social Vulnerability Index: Why the dimensions Overcrowding and Occupation have the same weighting? In Table 1 it is suggested to use the same format when referring to Calmat (use Roman numbers in the table and in the notes) No information about regions is given in Methods, when later it is included in results. Why? If considering Regions, it would be necessary to describe better each region: number of population, number of children, socio-economic level of the region. I suggest to present the methods with a flowchart, so it could be easier to understand what methods authors applied and. Results: Table 2: Why are there children not attending schools? Was it because illness, or education at home, or need to work and earn money, or other? Are correct the results given related to knowing how to read and write? Could it be a confusion and the numbers are changed? Did authors control by members or number of children/adolescents in each family? Why public health plans and insurance were not considered? All the children and adolescents have it by law? When talking about performing sport/recreational activities, were they structured, or simply playing at home/neighbourhood involving physical activity? Were they paid or not? When authors stated that: “our study showed that a significant part of the population under analysis had some degree of social vulnerability, which makes us consider this indicator as one social determinant of health”, couldn’t it be a bias? Discussion: This section can be improved, taking into account all the suggestions about information to be added. More structured text is necessary for understanding what authors wanted to show. Sometimes the information is mixed, and it is confusing. This can take to weak conclusions, not giving properly answers to the objectives proposed. Limitations have been considered, but not clear enough, and the proposals for future studies are missing. References: In general, references are limited. First, they should be more updated. And if updated, data obtained from could not match with the period the survey was done. For example, reference number 28, from year 2018, does it give information about the Asignacin Universal por Hijo during 2012? If it is not, authors should discuss it. Many other references are simply informative, based on websites (most of them official ones). When I consulted some of these websites (for example reference 4 and 34), I did not find information about when the data were obtained, so it might be difficult to interpret the results comparing the survey of 2012. Please, find several papers suggested for improving the content of this manuscript, even authors can find other ones for sure. 