The article describes a commandline tool, Biobtree, that is claimed to allow to process relations between bioinformatics datasets based on various characteristics such as identifiers and keywords. The manuscript describes the tool in a clear way technically, making it quite clear what it does in technical terms, and how it is supposed to be used. Also, I was able to install and run the tool in a simple way on my laptop (i5 CPU, 8GB RAM and 10-15 GB free hard drive, Xubuntu 16.04 64 bit) without problems. It provides a simple but good looking and easy to use web interface. I'm seeing at least two major issues with the tool and manuscript though, that needs being thoroughly addressed to make them acceptable. Main problem 1: Visualization? Firstly, the title claims that the tool does visualization of the database produced by the tool. Perhaps I'm missing something, but I have not found any visualization in the tool apart from a form of search hit result listings. I don't think this is enough to be called "visualization". Especially as it is unclear how the current form of output is supposed to be used in a concrete biological usecase. With the current wording, I would expect something more graphical, like a graphviz-like graph view of dataset relations. Suggested edits to make the tool and paper acceptable: Provide graphical visualization beyond results listings (or explain how to show them, if I have missed them), or else remove "visualization" from the title and other places. Use this/these visualizations in the use cases/demonstrators discussed above, to explain how they contribute to solving concrete biological problems. Main problem 2: Lack of context and discussion of biological relevance The first and main problem with the manuscript is that it does not provide a clear enough description of what biological problem it is solving. Nor does it provide an overview of existing tools and solutions in this field. Right now, the manuscript only states what the tool can do in technical terms. It somehow reads like a (well written) user guide or README file, but not yet a scientific paper. To help potential new users understand why they might need this tool, it needs to be put in context and compared with other existing tools. In my view, the manuscript needs the following points thoroughly addressing to be acceptable: In the introduction: Elaborate on the field of mapping/visualising dataset relations, mentioning relevant existing similar tools, what are the typical problems, and what particular problem Biobtree solves. Explain a few examples of biological problems that can be solved with this tool, or type of tool. E.g. in the results: Provide at least one, and optimally two or three potentially simple, but relevant, biological demonstrators or use cases, that can be addressed with the tool. Provide complete instructions on how to re-run this or these demo(s) and provide outputs for this/these in terms of figures or diagrams and how these were produced. In this way, both reviewers and users can make sure that they understand how to operate the tool. In the discussion: Connect back to the explained problem the tool is addressing, and explain how the problem was solved, again reinstating the relevance of this specific tool compared to other existing tools, and what improvement it provides to the end user trying to solve biological problems, exemplified by the demonstrators or use cases. Language issues The manuscript also contains quite a number of language issues. I'm listing a few language suggestions below as examples, but further language proofing or editing is highly recommended, to make sure there are not more of these: Methods section: "in GO programming language" -- "in the Go programming language" (Note the "the" and that only G is uppercase in "Go"). Update phase section: "to LMDB" - "to the LMDB" Update phase section: "Updating reads selected datasets as a stream" I don't understand this sentence. Please language-check it. "is used in next" - "is used in the next" Generate phase section: "the project github page" - "the project's GitHub page" Web phase section: "starts web phase" - "starts the web phase" Web interface section: "The Web interface allow user" - "The web interface allows the user" Operation section: "Biobtree executable" - "The biobtree executable". 