 Summary The study was focused on assessing whether healthy (i.e. non-cognitively impaired) mice would display benefits following the administration of the nootropic drug aniracetam. Mice were run through a battery of tests aimed following oral administration of either a vehicle solution or an aniracetam solution. Though the main focus of the paper seemed to be on identifying whether aniracetam administered mice showed improvement in a variety of learning and memory tasks, mice were also assessed on measures of anxiety and repetitive behavior. The aniracetam treated mice did not show any significant improvements on any of the learning and memory tasks compared to controls. In addition, aniracetam treated mice did not display increased anxiety or repetitive behaviors as compared to control mice. Suggested Changes The title should be rewritten to include information about the outcome measures that are used. As it is, it is not readily clear from the title that this is a behavioral study. The introduction does not provide an explanation for some of the tests that were run. Specifically, there was no mention of anxiety or repetitive behavior being linked with nootropic use. A discussion of this relationship should be included at some point in the introduction. The authors do not mention which light phase the mice were run during. Given that all the outcome measures are behavioral and metabolic factors may influence how the mice process the aniracetam, this is a detail that needs to be included. Whether or not the order of the tests was randomized and the amount of time that was given between each test should be mentioned. The write-up of the fear conditioning methodology is missing a number of important details. The following need to be added: (1) A thorough description of the CS in use (e.g. was it a pure tone or white noise? What was the volume?), (2) the number of CS-US pairings, (3) the intensity and duration of the US, (4) the amount of time the mouse was given to habituate to the cage, and (5) the amount of time between CS presentations. Excitatory post-synaptic current should be written out fully before being abbreviated to EPSC. A description of Figure 4C needs to be added to the caption of Figure 4. A significant difference between the freezing displayed by aniracetam treated rats and control rats is indicated in Figure 4B but the statistics backing up this finding are not included in the results or discussed at any point in the paper. 