This article needs to be significantly improved before it gets accepted for publication. Here are my suggestions to improve this article: COMMENTS ON INTRODUCTION: “Metastases to the gynecologic and gastrointestinal tract are rare 2 , 3 ; endometrial cancer (EC) is considered as the most frequent of this type.” Please correct: Endometrial cancer is not a metastasis. “Multiple primary malignancy (MPM) has increased over the past decade. It is a term defined as spreading of the primary malignancy to two or more parts of the body distinct from each other. In addition to being distinct, these tumours must have definite featured of malignancy, and the possibility that one is the metastasis of the other must be ruled out” Please correct: Multiple primary malignancy is not spreading of the primary malignancy to two or more parts. The term refers to separate cancers. “Multiple mechanisms such as hereditary, immune and environmental factors, e.g. chemical, viruses and chemotherapeutic regimens, are considered as the pathogenesis of MPM” Many times (if not most times) MPM are the result of pure chance. For instance if a disease A has a prevalence of e.g. 3% and disease B has a prevalence of e.g. 2%, then a small number of patients will have both diseases only as a matter of chance. The same thing implies here for BC and EC. COMMENTS ON CASE PRESENTATION: Additional information should be given regarding the tumor stage. There is no information regarding the lymph node status in the right axilla. Does the text imply that the disease was spread directly to the left supra-clavicular lymph nodes. Did the authors rule out a second tumor in the left breast? Did they detect metastatic disease elsewhere? The authors don't mention the status of estrogen and progesterone receptors, nor do they report the HER2/NEU status. Pathology images should be added. COMMENTS ON DISCUSSION: Language editing is strongly adviced before the authors submit a revision of this manuscript. For instance the phrase:"The diagnosis of synchronous primary cancers in an individual is rare and difficult, especially in the case of finding the same type of cancer. In the present case, clinicopathological criteria was used to distinguish the two similar cancer" needs to rephrased completely. Discuss that the coexistence of BC and EC in this patient might be only a coincidence. Information regarding menopausal status and BMI should be given in the case presentation section. What are the treatment implications? 