This report provides an overview of the Hertfordshire Cohort Study, one of the most influential of epidemiological studies which provided ground-breaking evidence of early life influences on the development of adult chronic disease and laid the foundation for a huge corpus of scientific work on the developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis. The original retrospective cohort study was established by linking contemporary health outcome data to health visitor records collected between 1911-1930 in the English county of Hertfordshire. The paper concentrates on the highly innovative strategy of further follow-up examinations and data collection in the younger cohort of 3000 men and women who were born between 1931 and 1939. The objective was to evaluate interactions between intra-uterine and early postnatal environment, adult diet and lifestyle, genetics in the aetiology of chronic disorders of ageing including osteoporosis. A comprehensive battery of social, biological and health status variables was collected and the summary of studies carried out between 1998-2018 is summarised in Figure 2. A further highly original development is the inter-generational follow-up now planned and in train. To date more than 1000 members have provided contact details for their children and grandchildren, which will make this one of very few prospective studies with three generation follow-up. There is also detailed linkage to routine health records and administrative datasets, mortality and hospital episodes statistics. The review provides a comprehensive summary of key publications in the areas of osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and diet and this study has greatly added to our understanding of the aetiology and natural history of these outcomes. There are also a number of detailed tables which summarise the wealth of data collected at different stages of the study. My comments are all minor and primarily to do with presentation of the data in the report. Firstly, as a suggestion, I think the report would flow better if the sections on diet, routinely collected data, genetics and epigenetics and possibly National and International collaborations (currently pages 15-16) were moved back earlier to precede the outcome sections, focusing particularly on Osteoporosis, Osteoarthritis, Sarcopenia and Diet (currently pages 4-15). It might make the scope of the study clearer to the general reader. Also, the tables provide considerable detail and if the variables were sequenced in the same order and as appropriate sub-categorised, it would be easier to cross-reference what was collected and when. 