This article describes a small study to better understand how unique identifiers (in this case DOIs) assigned to publications work as a match key for what the authors call 'citation linking' or matching identical publications in different databases in order to form a publication set that can then be used for bibliometric analysis. The study's goals were to lay out the characteristics of publications that were matched versus those that were unmatched, and to illustrate how the publications set formed might be affected by problems in the matching. I found the discussion of the citation linking throughout the article confusing, in part because my expectation of what that means is quite different than what is described in the article. My understanding of citation linking is that one is following works cited in a publication via the UID. It took several reads to clarify this; it may be something that the authors wish to clarify further in the abstract or introduction. I found the study design, methods, and conclusions to be adequate for the study particularly for the first objective (given the acknowledgement that this is not generalizable). It would be useful to expand this study to other disciplines to see whether there are similar issues and characteristics. In order to replicate this study in another discipline, however, more attention may need to be paid to coverage in Pure and SciVal, or use of other databases may need to be deployed. The second objective- to better understand how bibliometric analysis of the publication set formed might be skewed by issues in matching- was undermined by the size of the dataset- there seemed to be too little data from which to draw firm conclusions. However, given that, the description of the results are fine. I believe that the Future Implications section provides the clearest implications of the study - essentially that UIDs aren't panaceas for deduplication/ citation matching/ etc.- and that use of UIDs as match points should be informed by potential points of failure. This description could have clarified other pieces of the article. I wavered between 'Approved' and 'Approved with Reservations', and settled on 'Approved'. I believe that the revisions necessary are really clarity of language and noting throughout that the size and scope of the case study provide a limited window.