This is a clinically relevant case report as it is purportedly the first report in a patient being treated with a particular immunosuppressive monoclonal Ab. There are several minor language and grammatical improvements to be made that will strengthen and clarify the report. It should have an additional round of editing by a native English speaker. Examples: HIV-positive should be 'people living with HIV'. Abstract: 'fungi central nervous system..' should be fungal. Brentuximab should be in lower case throughout. It is not explained with it is 'brentuximab-vedotin' in keywords but 'brentuximab' elsewhere. End of abstract - opportunist should be opportunistic. This sentence needs an English language revision: "However, these fungi neuroinfection affects HIV seronegative patients." Background - it is not accurate to say crypto has a predilection for the lungs. The lungs are the route of entry, but this is a neurotropic pathogen. 'penetration into' should be 'penetration through'. Case presentation: "over the last couple hours" should be "over the last couple of hours" or "over the last several hours". The use of 'under' to describe being prescribed a treatment is not commonly how this is stated in the US. Try "treated with" or "on treatment for ___ with ___". Also not common to say patients are admitted at the outpatient clinic. Patients are seen or evaluated at a clinic, but admitted to a hospital. This sentence also needs to be revised for proper grammar/syntax. "Throughout image assessments, a large left infratentorial arachnoid cystic lesion was being monitored.". Susceptibilities are not commonly reported in Crypto case reports. There is not known resistance and generally all therapy is empiric. Corticotherapy should be corticosteroid therapy. This needs to be reworded for clarity: "However, Cryptococcus species were not considered the etiological agent for a CNS infection, emphasizing the need for an initial lumbar puncture to exclude fungal agents when approaching opportunist neuroinfection. This was not possible at first evaluation in this case which delayed antifungal therapy." 