The article written by Amorim et al. describes the anti-phage activity of chitosan on two variants (wild type and a derivative where the stx gene was replaced by the gfp gene) of the temperate Shiga-toxin producing phage EDL933W. The anti-phage activity was evaluated both in vivo and in vitro . The authors suggest that chitosan could be a viable alternative for the treatment of STEC infections. Major: Phage Induction/anti-phage effects of chitosan/Figure 1: It seems that chitosan not only sequesters free-phage particles, but also stimulates the growth of uninduced cells (see induced cells treated with chitosan 2 hours post-induction reached higher final OD values). So, does chitosan inhibit the induction process of the temperate phage? Or, does chitosan also adsorb/inactivate ciprofloxacin? Even though in the Materials and Methods a Bacteriophage inactivation assay is described, no data is presented. A dose-response curve should be presented, to determine the phage binding (inactivation) capacity of chitosan. In vivo experiments: If the authors suggest that Stx phages, rather than bacterial cells, may be responsible for the development of the STEC infections, why they did not use purified phage in the vivo experiments? Does chitosan adsorb/inactivate the Shiga-toxins? If so, may it explain the delayed response observed in Figure 4 (EDL933W plus chitosan)? Minors: Abstract: Provide a reference after plasmids encoding Stx under control of the native bacterial promoter. Change E. coli K12 strain to E. coli C600 strain. Materials and Methods: Delete was generously provided by Dr. Luis Carlos de Souza Ferreira, LDV-USP, Brazil., since Dr. Ferreira is one of the authors of the manuscript. Check the sentence was generously provided by Dr. Alison Weiss it is repeated twice in the Materials and Methods, and also in the Acknowledgments. Change This is a non-pathogenic phage to This is a non-pathogenic cell Change complete DMEM medium to DMEM medium. Or, if the complete DMEM medium contains 10% fetal bovine serum, change complete DMEM medium for complete medium. Please, indicate how DNA was harvested. Change Tris pH8 50mM to Tris pH8 50 mM. Change BALB/c mice were bred to BALB/c and DBA-2 mice were bred Change under a 12-h light-dark to under a 12-hour light-dark. Delete the sentence Two-month old BALB/c mice and GFP dissemination by IVIS was analyzed. It is redundant. Results: Figure 1B: Should be ? Why phage titers are so low? Figure 1A: Change for or . Figure 2: Lanes 5 and 6 should read: positive PCR control and negative PCR control, respectively. In lane 78, indicate in the figure the kb values of the ladder. Delete in viable phages. Were phages transduced or adsorbed to mammalian cells? The sentence Mice were orally challenged with a wild-type EDL933W is not correct, since there was a direct delivery of bacterial cells into the stomach of mice. Discussion: Check 