We recommend to refuse indexing of the revised manuscript entitled ‘Effects of polyisoprenoids from Avicennia lanata and Avicennia alba leaves on the gene expression of PI3K, Akt1, mTOR, P53, and EGFR in human colorectal adenocarcinoma WiDr cells’. Although the Authors have introduced some corrections they did not address any of the main critical comments listed in the previous opinion. The methodological errors (a poorly characterized mixture of lipids used for biological experiments, lack of a negative control in numerous experiments) and a limited number of original data described in the evaluated manuscript (in fact only data of PCR experiment are novel but unfortunately they are unreliable) prompted us to sustain our critical opinion on this report. Since the authors see no need to improve their work, it should be definitely rejected. A detailed list of comments follows. Comments for Authors: Authors have invested some effort to improve the revised manuscript, in particular, English grammar has been verified and minor corrections indicated in the first review have been introduced. At the same time, new spelling mistakes appeared in the revised manuscript: ‘unsonifiable’ instead of ‘unsaponifiable’ and ‘polysioprenoids instead of ‘polyisoprenoids’. Unfortunately, numerous critical comments, including those concerning the purity of the extracts and the methodology of PCR experiment have not been addressed. Please see below for details. Comments: The authors did not consider the first critical comment seriously. No additional purification step of the polyisoprenoids was employed in the revised manuscript and 100% chemical purity of the polyisoprenoid mixtures is postulated based on 2D TLC (data not shown in the revised version of the manuscript although the authors in response to reviewers indicate that new Figure 1 contains these data). Several aspects of these statements are commented on below: Firstly, it is absolutely impossible to achieve 100% purity of the natural compound even though an extensive multistep purification procedure is employed. In this report, only saponification was used without any subsequent purification. Secondly, analyses of numerous extracts of plant tissues published in the literature so far revealed the presence of higher or lower amounts of various unsanifiable lipids, including steroids (phytosterols, triterpenes). Their tissue concentration is usually considerably higher than that of polyisoprenoids. Thirdly, the occurrence of triterpenoids and phytosterols together with dolichols has recently been documented in the leaves and roots of several mangrove species, including A. alba and A. lanata by the same group of authors (Basyuni et al., Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2019 Nov 14;7(22):3765-3768). In summary, with no doubts, the crude unsaponifiable lipid fractions used in this manuscript contained steroid compounds and for this reason, results of all the experiments do not support the suggested role of dolichols. The application of such crude mixture seriously diminishes the value of all the biological experiments performed in this report. Data presented in Table 2 of the revised manuscript have been corrected by including the values of SEM. Unfortunately, no there is no information on the number of biological replicates – it should be indicated in the Table legend, e.g. n=? The statement ‘The cytotoxicity of PAL and PAA in the present study included an interesting SI against WiDr cells in a dose-dependent manner’ is not correct since Table 2 presents data for only one single concentration of PAL and PAA. Furthermore, the Authors did not respond to the comment on the selectivity of PAA and PAL raised in the first review. In our opinion, conclusions related to data in Table 2 are misleading. Data presented in Table 2 do not provide any argument supporting the postulated selectivity of PAA and PAL. According to the revised manuscript, three independent experiments were performed to obtain data documenting the apoptotic effect of extracts (Fig. 2). While it is correct to show only one set of data in the main text (Fig. 2), two additional sets have to be shown in the Supplement. Why are the results of the quantitative analysis presented without SEM? Corrections related to this section of the manuscript are very limited – SEM values are now included in Table 3; however, the number of the biological replicates of PCR experiments is not indicated. The method of quantitative analysis of PCR data is described. Still, the reference gene, β-actin has to be described in the Methods section and included in the main figure. As reviewers we appreciate Authors’ efforts to document the PCR results, thank you for sharing with us the raw data for Figure 3 (pictures of gels showing expression of PI3K, AKT, mTOR, P53, EGFR and β-actin genes) and Table 4 (intensity of appropriate bands). Unfortunately, careful inspection of the gels does not lead to the conclusions presented in the manuscript. The criticism/objections concerns: 1) expression of P53 gene – all three gel images representing 3 replicates are in fact copies of only one experiment 2) the same applies to β-actin expression used as the reference gene 3) one of the images is used twice - as ‘Gene expression of EGFR’ (repetition 2) and simultaneously as ‘Gene expression of Akt1 (repetition 2)’ 4) the results of mTOR expression are shown in an unacceptable manner. The original gel described as ‘Gene expression of mTOR (repetition 3) is turned upside down in Figure 3. Annotation of the lanes in Fig. 3 is not in accordance with the original gel. Original 5-FU (line 5 in gel) is shown as control cells (line a in Figure 3), PAM (line 4 on gel) is presented as PAL (b in Fig.3) and finally line presenting control cells in the gel is shown as 5-FU in Fig. 3. Additionally, how the control cells were obtained? It is not described anywhere in the manuscript. Moreover, the data presenting a quantitative analysis of PCR product shown in Table 4 are inconsistent with the respective raw data in the gels (raw data for Figure 3). Methodology: Information for how long the plant material was stored prior to extraction is missing. The concentration of 5-Fu used in this study in the context of literature. Were the values used in this study within the range of those used in similar types of assays? This information is still missing in the revised manuscript. In the revised manuscript the type of solvent used to prepare PAA and PAL solutions for biological tests is not described. According to the Methods 5-FU was dissolved in DMSO but which solvent was used to dissolve Dol mix? Was it DMSO? Another related question is the negative control for all biological experiments. This critically important issue was not addressed in the revised manuscript since the lack of data for cells treated solely with solvent makes all the biological results questionable. The dose PAL and PAA and time of exposure of cells for the cell cycle analysis is still missing. The journal referred here Iran J Pharm Res is not easily accessible. To justify the novelty of the manuscript, Authors refer to three papers (ref. No 8-10) previously published by their own team: ‘Furthermore, our previous studies have shown that polyisoprenoids from mangrove leaves induced apoptosis, decreased cell proliferation, and exhibited anticancer activity [8– 10 ].’ Consequently, Authors declare that original data are presented solely in Figure 3 and Table 4. Moreover, Dols has already been described in their own previously published reports, e.g. Basyuni et al. , Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2019 – why this publication is not included in the reference list? Last but not least despite the fact that the Authors discuss the purity of the polyisoprenoid mixture based on 2D TLC chromatogram (Figure 1 mentioned in the Authors’ response) it is not included in the revised manuscript. English grammar has been corrected and indicated minor corrections have been introduced; however, some spelling mistakes have to be corrected: replace ‘unsonifiable’ with ‘unsaponifiable’ replace ‘polysioprenoids with ‘polyisoprenoids’ 