I think this paper is well written and is very timely, particularly in recognition of the recent decline in interest in choosing Nephrology as a subspecialty among medical students and trainees. It is with great interest that I read this and offer a few comments - Idea 1: Offer combined nephrology-critical care fellowship positions Nowadays, additional sub-specialization in fields such as Transplant Nephrology, Interventional Nephrology, etc. requires an additional year of training. I would suspect that a combined Nephrology-Critical Care Fellowship position would follow the same format. Similarly, I do not think that there are currently enough practice opportunities that will cater to both specializations, whether academic or private practice for those coming out of training. Idea 2: Training programs should exit the Match I do not think that this would solve the problem. I don't think that applicants gear towards any specialty (Nephrology or others) based on a program's being in the Match or not. My impression is that the Match evens out the playing field not only for the applicants but for the programs as well. In the pre-Match era, I would think that those programs coming from well-established institutions would tend to fill their positions much earlier (than would less well-recognized programs) with the 'best candidates' that they could identify during the allotted time period. Issue 3: Extend clinical nephrology fellowship training to three years I am afraid that extending the training to three years may come in as a disincentive to potential applicants, especially since majority of trainees tend to go into private practice (as opposed to academics). Perhaps, those who are more academic and research oriented may be attracted to this opportunity as it gives them an extra year of research and scholarly activity which is required for subsequent promotion in the faculty ranks. Similarly, recognizing that majority of US medical school graduates have debts to pay, they would probably prefer to start reaching their earning potentials much earlier; an extra year of training may be counter to this. Issue 4: Decrease the number of positions offered In my opinion, this is perhaps a viable solution to the problem at hand. The author has recognized the potential 'conflict of interest' that may arise when deciding which Fellowship programs should decrease their offered positions.