This article provides important detail about the application of the wave approach to spreading improvements and makes an important contribution to the science of achieving results at scale. I have several specific observations and suggestions for ways to strengthen the paper: Abstract: I suggest that the abstract briefly describes the that you refer to in the last sentence.I believe this refers to the accelerated pace of the adoption of the changes in each successive wave. Introduction: The definition of spread given in the introduction refers to spread and as being the same concept. Is there a rationale for using one term rather than the other? For most of the paper the term spread is used but there are places later in the paper where the term is used instead. Id suggest keeping the language consistent throughout the paper unless there is a reason to use one term versus the other.and to explain that rationale. The wave-sequence approach section: The first sentence in this section needs to reflect a more precise definition of the wave-sequence approach. Describing it as a type of spread that focuses on spreading improved care delivery to other parts of the system can be used to describe other spread approaches as well. Introducing the essential components of the wave-sequence approach in the opening sentence would help to distinguish it from the other approaches described in the introduction. The Slice of a System concept: It would be helpful to give more detail about the composition of the teams in the and what position/affiliation do the members who become change agents hold. For example, if the selected change agent is a point-of-care provider how do they continue in their provider role while at the same time functioning as a change agent. It would be helpful to give more detail about how the team reflects the infrastructural components of the slice. Russia: The outcomes of the work are described briefly in the opening paragraph. Has this work been published elsewhere? A more precise description of the results in the text is needed, perhaps referring to the timeframe in the graph. Id suggest replacing the words within a couple of years with the exact timeframe. I suggest giving more detail about how the wave-sequence approach was applied in Russia. For example, what exactly were the petals, what type of facilities made up the slices, and what was the composition of the collaborative teams in each wave? This detail would help the reader understand the general description of the wave-sequence approach given in the earlier description of the wave-sequence approach. Afghanistan: A more detailed description of what exactly the slice of the system was in this example would also help to explain the general approach (as noted above). Were the different types of collaborative teams, i.e., provincial facility, provincial community and hospital teams, described for Afghanistan also used in Russia? Were collaborative teams that involved representatives from each layer in the slice ever used? Did the redesign coordinate effort across these teams? If so, how was that coordination accomplished? The results for Afghanistan are at the process level, i.e., compliance with the protocols. Are their outcome levels results? The Russia example showed the actual impact of the changes on neonatal outcomes. This type of data would strengthen the case example. Conclusion: In a subsequent paper I would be interested to hear more about the managerial and policy level changes that were made. A greater understanding of these infrastructure changes often plays a key role in the success of large-scale improvement efforts.