The article describes a useful experiment in trialling DSpace as a candidate repository for potentially sensitive clinical trial data. The assessment criteria used focussed on the “system” level, keeping the scope manageable, and map well onto more formal existing frameworks. The conclusions that DSpace is not a bad place to start — necessary but insufficient — are sound and offer a useful guide to people faced with similar challenges in enabling the sharing of sensitive data. I have a few specific observations around methods and analysis, noted below. While geared more towards open data, the FAIR principles ( https://www.force11.org/fairprinciples ) are an increasingly important set of criteria for research data repos and complement some of the approaches in Table 3. Perhaps they could be added to the mapping? There is no mention of encryption in the 8 assessment criteria, but encryption is hinted at in the software config ("PostgreSQL 9.5 (with pgcrypto installed) as the relational database back end”). For a repo system handling sensitive data, I’d like to see encryption at rest and encryption in flight as two additional criteria. Perhaps this is implicit in the experiment (the pgcrypto extension offers a tantalising hint!), and if so it’s worth making it explicit. If encryption wasn’t considered as a criterion, it’s worth adding an explanation: certainly encrypting archive data is controversial — what if you lose the keys? — but an Internet-accessible database of sensitive data is a worrying thing to have exposed unencrypted. General, automatic de-identification of data is hard, as I’m sure the authors are fully aware! While they do cover de-identification support (or rather, the lack of it) in DSpace, I wonder if they would like to comment on whether they would regard some form of basic personally-identifiable data quality checking as a “must” for repository systems dealing with sensitive data? (Looking for names, addresses, email addresses, etc. in submissions.) How easy would it be for an absent-minded researcher to upload PII into DSpace and make it publicly readable by default? Should the assessment criteria be tighter here? Perhaps this is food for future work. 