The manuscript provides a useful, localized analysis of contraceptive method choice in a particular area of West Java, but fails to provide adequate details about how key variables were operationalized, making it difficult to judge the quality of the analysis and some of the conclusions reached. The manuscript could be indexed with major revisions. Detailed comments and questions: (p1) In the Abstract: “...the use of short-acting contraceptive is not effective enough for use.” Contraceptive should be plural (contraceptives). “Not effective enough for use” is an overstatement. Injectables and oral pills are highly effective at preventing pregnancy when used properly. They are, however, less efficient than longer acting or permanent methods when used for longer term spacing or limiting of childbirth because it is easy to skip a treatment or take a short break from use for economic or other reasons, which can result in unintended pregnancy. The authors should clarify the distinction between effectiveness of the methods and efficiency or practicality with regard to achieving fertility objectives. (p3, column 2, 1 st full paragraph): “Based on the 2015 results...” Authors should consider updating these contraceptive use statistics with the more recent results from the 2017 Indonesia Demographic Health Survey (Survei Demografi dan Kesehatan Indonesia 2017). (p3, column 2, 2 nd full paragraph): “Widespread of myths and misunderstandings...”. Delete word “of” “Myths” is a poorly defined word that is commonly misused to refer to negative beliefs or attitudes about contraceptive methods. Saying that someone believes in a “myth” suggests that they are superstitious and ignorant. It is more appropriate and more accurate to simply say that some people have “negative beliefs and misunderstandings” about LARCS. (p3, column 2, Section on Data Collection): My most serious concerns about this manuscript regard the lack of clarity about how some key variables are conceptualized and measured. Authors should provide full descriptions of how variables were operationalized in the interview and/or manipulated (coded or recoded) for analysis. Specifically: Nowhere in the manuscript is there a description of how “knowledge” was conceptualized and measured. Knowledge of what? Of methods available? Of how they work? Of contraindications or side effects? Of how long they can be used? Without this description it is impossible for the reader to know what “Good” or “Bad” knowledge means and therefore to be able to understand how or why his variable might be related to use of LARCs. Similarly, nowhere do the authors describe how “beliefs” and “attitudes” were conceptualized and measured. What beliefs and attitudes were asked about in the interview? Was there a single measure of belief or were multiple beliefs asked about and used to construct a knowledge scale or index? Were respondents asked about the strength of their belief in certain things about FP methods (e.g., “How strongly do you agree with each of the following statements?”) or simply asked, “Do you believe X, yes or no?). What attitudes toward contraceptive methods were assessed in the interview? How were they used to determine if attitudes were positive or negative? The manuscript needs much more detail about how these important independent variables were measured. Similarly, how was “Skills of health workers” conceptualized and measured? What skills were considered? Counseling skills? Clinical skills? How were some workers categorized as Skilled and others as Unskilled? It is impossible to know what this variable means in Table 2. (p5, 1 st column): Authors find that (perceived) cost of contraception has a significant negative effect on contraceptive use. It may be worthwhile to note that this study was (I believe) done before the new National Health Insurance scheme (Jaminan Kesehatan Nasional/Badan Penyelenggara Jaminan Sosial) was rolled out and widely available. National health insurance has, in recent years, overcome many of the cost barriers to contraceptive use, including use of LARCS. (p5, Table 2): I would find it very helpful to see cell percentages in the Utilization of Contraceptive columns of the table. (p7, 1 st column, 2 nd paragraph): “The results of our statistical analysis indicate that there is a relationship between the information provided by the health-care personnel and the use of LARCs.” This comment is related to my concern above about how “health worker skills” was measured. How did the interview determine what information health workers provided to their clients? If the client reported that the health worker did not provide information about LARCS, is that what results in categorization of the health worker as Unskilled? This needs clarification. 