RNAtor looks like a simple and easy to use application. However this could also be its drawback in that it may be too simplistic. The authors should show some evidence that the parts they omit do not significantly impact RNAtor's guidance to users. Abstract: 1) Perhaps the first sentence of the abstract should be reworded as it is a bit odd to say that "RNA Sequencing ... understands transcript structures" etc. 2) Its unnecessary to mention the "number of lanes" when the "number of reads" has been highlighted. 3) It is s not clear why a mobile application is necessary. Is a web-based tool like EDDA not sufficient? Introduction: 4) The last sentence is not very clear in terms of what is being done here. 5) As it is typical to present and discuss prior work in the introduction, I believe it is important to add this component. Some of this could perhaps come from the current discussion section. Implementation: 6) What were the parameters used for running Polyester? In particular, different experimental conditions will likely have different expression profiles, biological variability dictating the dispersion parameters and perhaps other factors like splicing complexity, gene families etc. that all affect RNA-seq analysis. How does RNAtor account for these? How were the various differential analysis softwares run? They usually have cutoffs that can be chosen to make their results more or less stringent. Results: 7) The detection of differentially abundant RNAs using RNA-seq is impacted by the relative abundance of the transcript. How is this taken into account in table 1? 8) In figure 2, are these all true positives? What about false positives? Usually there is a tradeoff and a user needs to be aware of this. 9) Figure 3 does not have a legend. 10) It is not clear to me what transcript recovery is referring to and why that is relevant here. 11) Supplementary figure 4 needs better resolution and font sizes. 12) The claims made in the section "Detection specificity and transcript recovery by DE tools" are not obvious from the figures shown. Discussion: 13) It seems to me that there are many more limitations in RNAtor than are discussed here. Also, it is appropriate to discuss the strengths and weaknesses of EDDA as well and perhaps some of this should be in the introduction, as noted earlier. 