This paper is aimed to answer whether the identification of objects and its category in an multi-object stimuli are performed serially or in parallel. It is shown that the number of categories of simultaneously presented objects, but not the number of objects per se, affects the time and accuracy of the identification of a category. The author demonstrates that if several objects belong to a smaller number of categories, then the categories are easier to identify than when several objects belong to a larger number of categories. It is assumed that objects of one category are identified in parallel mode. The main problem of this study is that it is much more possible to guess the right answer when there are more than one image of one category that are presented simultaneously comparing to stimuli that consist of images of different categories. Suppose there are 3 objects belonging to the same category. If an observer identifies at least one object, they are more likely to give the correct answer than in a situation where there are two categories: a priori, they have less chance to detect an object of one of these categories. It seems that accounting for a priori probability is necessary. The simplest thing that comes to mind is subtraction of the total probability of random guessing from an empirical estimate of the probability for each type of stimulus (1-1, 1-2, etc). I agree with Dan McCarthy concerning the issue of the statistical analysis used by the author. Probably, for a more correct (and powerful in a statistical sense) comparison of test results performed through repeated testing of observers in similar tasks, it is necessary to apply a method that gives special attention to differences in performance in different tasks and not to the individual differences in speed and accuracy of identification; e. g. repeated measures ANOVA is more preferable. And of course, in the presence of conclusions based on the adoption of the null hypothesis, power analysis is desired. Probably this 1 work containing tables with power estimations for the 3x6 design, will be useful for author. I also would like to note that the use of the chi-square test to check the normality of distribution is not recommended by many authors (e. g. 2 p. 94]); but this note is not fundamental. Undoubtedly, the work is of great interest and should be indexed, but a significant revision is required. 