I appreciate the opportunity to revise this manuscript. In brief, the authors have performed a theoretical and practical course on CPR in postgraduate students of critical areas in Ecuador. After finishing the course, they tested one month later the retention of students both in the theoretical and practical aspects delivered during the course. There is a significant decrease in cognitive and skills performance, and it is further analysed according to each speciality training. I believe this is a well-written manuscript, with clear objectives, adequate methodology and a developed discussion that addresses the relevant topics involved in CPR training and simulation training in general. I have a few comments, including: Consider including the following updated reference for delays in CPR: Bircher NG, Chan PS, Xu Y; et al. Delays in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation, Defibrillation, and Epinephrine Administration All Decrease Survival in In-hospital Cardiac Arrest. Anesthesiology. 2019 Mar;130(3):414-422. doi: 10.1097/ALN.0000000000002563. 1 Table 1 should include N of participants in each group, plus the standard deviation of each measurement. Even though results are expressed as a percentage, they are an average of a score of the study group, as presented in the table’s title. In this sense, a dispersion value is needed to better understand the sample's distribution. When mentioning the use of Students’ t-test, did you refer to both independent and paired measures test? Considering that the comparison between groups are independent groups but intra-group comparison is a repeated measure test? If so, it should be specified in the methods section. What happened with the students that failed to meet the minimum passing score? Are there remedial sessions or new tests performed? After this study, will there be any change of conduct in your institution? What would you recommend for future versions of the course? Include more training sessions to the program? Shorten the gap between training sessions? Specific targeting of the groups that performed poorly? I believe this is an interesting study, that allows to explore more in-depth the fine details of training of a complex and lifesaving skill like CPR. Indeed, this data allows to improve training programs and optimise the learning of medical trainees. Congratulations to the authors for the work done. 