Please could you add an introduction about syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess, for example; Syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess (MIM#218030) is a rare cause of juvenile hypertension occuring due to homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in HSD11B2 gene (MIM*614232). The gene encodes an NAD+-dependent enzyme viz corticosteroid 11-β-dehydrogenase isozyme 2, which is expressed in aldosterone-selective epithelial tissues such as the kidney, colon, salivary and sweat glands. This enzyme is responsible for oxidizes the glucocorticoid cortisol to the inactive metabolite cortisone. This protective mechanism is necessary because cortisol circulates at 100-1000-fold higher concentrations than aldosterone, and binds with equal affinity to the mineralocorticoid receptor, thereby out-competing aldosterone in cells that do not produce HSD11B2. In patients with SME the enzyme deficiency allows mineralocorticoid receptors to be occupied by cortisol leading to hypertension. I believe that more details on clinical features should be provided, such as: clinical presentation and history. Draw three generation pedigree. detailed anthropometry, examination findings of the patients. For eg. was there any low birth weight, short stature, polydipsia, polyuria? what were the baseline blood pressure levels in the patients when hypertension was detected? was fundus examination done to detect retinopathy? were the parents hypertensive? give the detailed serum electrolyte levels, detailed 2ECHO report. Give normal ranges of plasma renin, aldosterone levels. clinical photos if relevant or uploading ultrasound kidney scans Mutation: Please give the nucleotide change, exon number of the mutation identified in the patients with the correct Ensembl transcript ID. Please specify as the mechanism of loss of function of the mutation in patients with mutations at position p.335-339 is reduced protein stability due to rapid protein degradation at the proteasome, rather than reduced catalysis. Grammar changes: I would begin the words aldosterone, amlodipine, metoprolol with lower case letters when in the midst of a sentence. Typo: I think you should correct the following sentence - p.R337 loci of 11HSDB2 to- “ The p.R337 residue of 11-β-dehydrogenase isozyme 2 enzyme is a recognised mutation site. The mutation p.R337C has been previously identified in a family from Iran with three affected children. ” 