Introduction: The introduction focuses on an important topic which is drawing more and more attention in medical sciences: The idea of “one health” - the collaborative effort of multiple disciplines – to attain optimal health for people, animals and the environment. The authors point out the necessity to conduct veterinary clinical trials in a standardized manner in order to obtain valid and meaningful results to facilitate the translation into human medicine. Currently there is a lack of global consensus concerning the rules and regulations governing veterinary clinical trials. However, this discussion (although very important) should not make the bigger part of the introduction. Instead please include a discussion of solid scientific evidence on the similarities and discrepancies of human, feline and canine wound healing and why it may be valid to extrapolate results from one species to the other. Furthermore, please offer and overview of the research question, the state of the art in the field, how the current state may be improved, what is new about the collagen membrane used in this study compared to other similar products and how and why the collagen membrane employed in this study may therefore contribute to an improvement of the current state of the art. Currently the collagen membrane, which is the core of this paper, is not described whatsoever. Methods: The materials and methods section offers a description of the study design of the envisaged phase 1 clinical trial. It gives in detail guidelines how to proceed at certain stages in the course of the study and based on findings which may be encountered within the scope of the study (e.g. “If the affected area had been subject to natural scarring, with the formation of hard, unhealthy, fibrotic scar tissue, this was surgically removed, exposing subcutaneous tissue. In this case, the tissue would be fixed in 10% formalin and submitted to histological analysis, using standard procedures. If the treatment area was an unhealed, deepithelialized wound bed, but with no fibrotic scar tissue formation, then shallow scalpel incisions were made scattered throughout the treatment area, causing local bleeding, with the aim of promoting regeneration and integration with the later application of the collagen biomembranes.” “If any adverse effects were confirmed, in the first 1–2 days, then the biomembranes were excised or scraped off host tissue. If adverse effects were confirmed in later stages (D3), the biomembranes were not excised due to the fact that by this time they had absorbed significantly into the host tissue, rendering removal difficult or impossible. In this case, the patients were treated symptomatically and added to the “Discontinued intervention” group…”). Also detail on how data should be obtained and by whom are included (“When possible, a qualitative assessment of skin tissue quality would be done, either by a researcher associated with the study or by the owner. If another surgical procedure was scheduled for a study participant, for any reason, a small skin biopsy was attempted to be taken from the treatment area….”). However, the materials and methods should provide detailed information on methods and analysis carried out particularly for the current 2 patients included into the study. The anaesthesia regimen which is described in great detail is not so relevant for the interpretation of the study results as e.g. the preparation of the skin prior to surgery which may have considerable influence on the healing process. Please provide more information. Results: Following up clinical patients especially long term is very challenging and depends on the cooperation of the animal owners and their willingness and time to take their animals to the follow up examinations etc. Using series of pictures which can be taken either by the owners or the treating veterinarian at defined time points to document the healing process will certainly facilitate cooperation. Detailed instructions when and how (distance camera to animal, angle camera to wound etc.) are offered in the methods section. However, the photos in the paper (Figure 5) do unfortunately not look standardised even when comparing only the pictures taken from one patient, which hampers comparability. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? No. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? No. Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Meaningful statistical analysis on n=2 is impossible. A detailed description of the results is more useful in this case. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? Yes Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? Partly The results of the study are interesting and encouraging and (so I am convinced) worth further research efforts. However, in order to improve the quality of the clinical study standardisation should be increased, the photo documentation should be improved, mandatory re-checks with the treating veterinarian should be implemented during which a healing score is obtained based on healing rate and a qualitative assessment of newly formed skin tissue. Histologic evaluation pre and post-surgery should be implemented. Also inclusion of a control group would considerably increase the quality of the study. The clinicians assessment (“The clinicians’ assessment was that the wounds would take approximately 3 longer to heal compared to the time it took using the biomembrane treatment, or, possibly, the wounds would not have healed at all, or formed fibrotic scar tissue, indicating superiority compared to conventional wound therapy.) and a ‘quasi-experimental control group’ are not sufficient. I certainly agree with the authors that it wouldnt be possible and ethically debateable to include a control group receiving no treatment, but a control group receiving the current gold standard of wound treatment would be feasible and still increase the quality of the study. I strongly suggest publishing the results from the two patients as case reports because they are valuable and interesting for the scientific community and veterinary clinicians, but at the current stage unfortunately not sufficient for an original research article. However, I am looking forward to read more and see more results to come from further patients enrolled into this interesting and promising clinical trial and whish the authors all the best for the continuation of their study. 