Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) receiving hemodialysis are at higher risk for acquiring Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) and Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infections than the general population. The susceptibility to acquire viral hepatitis during hemodialysis has several potential underlying reasons related to both the patient and the hemodialysis procedure. Strict infection control measures are essential to prevent nosocomial transmission. So the aim of this article was to investigate the prevalence of HBV and HCV infection in the hemodialysis population of a region of Argentina as well as risk factors for infection. Serum testing for the presence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and anti-HCV antibodies (antiHCV) by ELISA and subsequent correlation of sero-positivity to HBV and HCV with timing of hemodialysis, history of transfusion, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) index, allowed the authors the opportunity to describe HBV and HCV prevalence in the present cohort of hemodialysis patients. The study is adequately described; however, it could have been more detailed. Some suggestions are as follow: Please compare the difference in sero-positivity results between the four hemodialysis centers in the city of Posadas, which can eventually reflect difference in the biosecurity procedures of each center. Describe whether the patients included in the study were being vaccinated against hepatitis B virus. It would be necessary to clarify the HBV and HCV serological status of patients with CRF before starting hemodialysis treatment. In the Methods section, please state the period of time of sample collection. The authors correlated transfusion history with HBsAg or anti-HCV serological status and reported a significant association with positivity for HBsAg. It would be important to indicate the year of transfusion, in order to rule out (if it was a recent event) or strongly suggest (if it occurred before the 1960s) that transfusion was the source of HBV infection. It would have been interesting to determine anti-HBc total antibodies as well. There is potential for more in-depth analysis and comparison. The authors should include more discussion and compare with their findings. For example, it is known that Misiones is a high HBV prevalence area in Argentina (please read the papers by Delfino et al., J ClinVirol 2012 and Arch Virol 2014). This is a well written but very simple study describing prevalence of HBV and HCV seromarkers in a particular region of Argentina. It could be updated with more detailed information and we do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard. Therefore, this article is not suitable unless the content is extensively edited.