This study investigates a topic of rapidly growing interest in the field of non-invasive brain stimulation techniques – namely using these techniques to improve cognitive abilities. This article is well referenced although I refer the authors to a recent article by Martin et al. 1 which found enhancing effects of tDCS on a dual n-back task over 10 successive sessions. Although the present study found no clear difference between active and sham conditions except during tDCS on Day 1, a clearer advantage of tDCS may nonetheless have been observed with additional sessions. The statistical analyses conducted have been well detailed and I believe are appropriate for the questions of interest. The limitations of the study have also been adequately discussed. The authors rightly point out that the way in which the monetary incentive for participation was managed could have differentially affected performance between the two testing days, thus possibly obscuring any enhancing effects of tDCS. As also noted, the fact that the sample was primarily comprised of university students may have lessened the likelihood of observing tDCS effects, although Martin et al . 1 similarly recruited a university student sample. Perhaps utilising a more difficult task, for example a dual n-back task or adjusting the n value based on participant performance on the previous trial block, may have produced greater differences in performance and allowed any potential effects of tDCS to be borne out. Regarding other methodological aspects, the authors applied quite an unusual placement for the reference electrode on the contralateral cheek; one that I have never encountered before. This would not be considered an extracephalic montage as conventionally, an extracephalic electrode is one that has been placed off the head (e.g., deltoid). I am curious as to why the authors chose this montage and if there is any modelling data to support this. Also, were participants asked to guess their stimulation condition after each session? I note that a double-blind design was used but the success of blinding should still be tested. In short, I commend the authors in investigating the potential uses of tDCS as a clinical tool but given the above limitations, changes in methodology would need to be implemented before drawing firmer conclusions. References 1. Martin DM, Liu R, Alonzo A: Can transcranial direct current stimulation enhance outcomes from cognitive training? A randomized controlled trial in healthy participants. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol . 2013; 16 (9): 1927-1936 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Alonzo A. Reviewer Report For: Does excitatory fronto-extracerebral tDCS lead to improved working memory performance? [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :219 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.2634.r2398 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-219/v1#referee-response-2398 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 10 Dec 2013 Niall Lally , University College London, London, UK 10 Dec 2013 Author Response We thank Dr. Alonzo for the detailed review, kind comments and suggestions. We have altered the title of the article to better reflect the electrode locations used here. Furthermore, we ... Continue reading We thank Dr. Alonzo for the detailed review, kind comments and suggestions. We have altered the title of the article to better reflect the electrode locations used here. Furthermore, we have attempted to address concerns surrounding the electrode montage by adding references to articles that have used the contralateral cheek as a reference, and added a paragraph to the discussion section detailing the issue of the reference electrode in tDCS experiments. As astutely indicated by Dr. Alonzo, the montage used is somewhat novel and current modelling studies comparing this configuration to other more established montages have yet to be performed. Finally, we thank Dr. Alonzo for the suggested article ( Martin et al ., 2013 ). We thank Dr. Alonzo for the detailed review, kind comments and suggestions. We have altered the title of the article to better reflect the electrode locations used here. Furthermore, we have attempted to address concerns surrounding the electrode montage by adding references to articles that have used the contralateral cheek as a reference, and added a paragraph to the discussion section detailing the issue of the reference electrode in tDCS experiments. As astutely indicated by Dr. Alonzo, the montage used is somewhat novel and current modelling studies comparing this configuration to other more established montages have yet to be performed. Finally, we thank Dr. Alonzo for the suggested article ( Martin et al ., 2013 ). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 10 Dec 2013 Niall Lally , University College London, London, UK 10 Dec 2013 Author Response We thank Dr. Alonzo for the detailed review, kind comments and suggestions. We have altered the title of the article to better reflect the electrode locations used here. Furthermore, we ... Continue reading We thank Dr. Alonzo for the detailed review, kind comments and suggestions. We have altered the title of the article to better reflect the electrode locations used here. Furthermore, we have attempted to address concerns surrounding the electrode montage by adding references to articles that have used the contralateral cheek as a reference, and added a paragraph to the discussion section detailing the issue of the reference electrode in tDCS experiments. As astutely indicated by Dr. Alonzo, the montage used is somewhat novel and current modelling studies comparing this configuration to other more established montages have yet to be performed. Finally, we thank Dr. Alonzo for the suggested article ( Martin et al ., 2013 ). We thank Dr. Alonzo for the detailed review, kind comments and suggestions. We have altered the title of the article to better reflect the electrode locations used here. Furthermore, we have attempted to address concerns surrounding the electrode montage by adding references to articles that have used the contralateral cheek as a reference, and added a paragraph to the discussion section detailing the issue of the reference electrode in tDCS experiments. As astutely indicated by Dr. Alonzo, the montage used is somewhat novel and current modelling studies comparing this configuration to other more established montages have yet to be performed. Finally, we thank Dr. Alonzo for the suggested article ( Martin et al ., 2013 ). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Antal A. Reviewer Report For: Does excitatory fronto-extracerebral tDCS lead to improved working memory performance? [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :219 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.2634.r2527 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-219/v1#referee-response-2527 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 21 Nov 2013 Andrea Antal , Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Göttingen University, Göttingen, Germany Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.2634.r2527 Introduction: The authors cite previous studies (e.g., Zaehle et al ., 2011) as an example that the applied electrode montage makes the interpretation of the effect of previous tDCS results difficult, due to the confounding factor coming from the cephalic or ... Continue reading READ ALL 