In this manuscript, Ru and Rogan use Bray-Curtis Similarity and several machine-learning algorithms to identify genes that have similar expression patterns. They use transcription factor binding sites within promoter regions and DNA accessibility data to train their models. This is a very important question and the authors propose an interesting mechanistic approach to address it. Nevertheless, there are several limitations that need to be addressed. Specific comments: While the grammar is at a good level, the way the information is presented makes the text very difficult to read. Some sentences are very long and there are many notations. One suggestion is to move some of the less important parts in the Supplementary Material. On page 3 in the introduction, the authors claim that signal strength of ChIP-seq peaks are not strictly proportional to TF binding strength. This is not always true and we showed in 1 that in fact the number of TF molecules controls the height of the ChIP-seq peak. On page 5, it is not clear why the authors talk of Features 1-3, since it seemed they had 7 features. The way the machine learning information is presented should be improved. The authors test Nave Bayes, Decision Tree, Random Forest and SVM. I was wondering if they consider also Neural Networks. They don’t need to implement that now, but they should at least mention what was behind their selection for the machine-learning algorithms. One of the main findings is that DNA accessibility improves predictions, because it masks potential TF binding sites. This is something that was previously showed in the context of TF binding to the genome by us and other scientists (e.g. References 1,2,3). Figure 4 needs re-plotting (e.g. x axis labels do not fit the figure). In the discussion, none of the statements are referred back to any of the figures in the results section. This makes the reading difficult. The lower performance for YY1 needs to be better explained. The authors claim that this could be explained by lower percentage of negatives in inaccessible promoters. Are there other examples of TFs displaying similar features? What is their performance? One of the main limitations of the manuscript is that the authors use only 82 TFs and claim that there are no iPWM for others. Have they tried to use MotifDB (https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/MotifDb.html), which has approximately 1000 PWMs for human TFs? When talking about the accuracy of the ChIP-seq signal, they could also reference this paper 4 . 