This study on the differentiation of single NMP progenitors generated by FGF2/CHIR treatment of EpiSC is a sequel to the previous study on lineage differentiation of these cells at the population level. Findings of this study are consistent with the assertion that individual T + /Sox2 + cells are likely to possess dual potential for differentiation into mesoderm (T + only) and neuroectodermal (Sox2 + only) cells. This provides the requisite experimental evidence that some cells in vitro may have acquire the attributes of the bipotent NMPs, which are presumed to exist in the node-streak interface and the chordoneural hinges in vivo. Issues to be clarified: Inconsistency of experimental data Data shown in Fig 3D indicates that T + clones contain 2 and 4 cells (the majority) with a few having up to 6 cells. The example of T + ve clone shown in Fig 3C contains at least 9 cells. This result is not included the dataset of Fig 3D (Day 2 sorted) or E (Day 3 sorted). Were all or only subsets of clones scored for these clonal culture experiments? Quality of the image data a. It is difficult to discern the co-expression, or otherwise, of T-GFP and Sox2 in individual cells at the resolution of Fig 1 and 2. b. It appears that cells with mixed gene expression are only found in some colonies (Fig 1), rather than in a salt and pepper manner in every colony. This may require an explanation in the context of clonal development. c. It can be confusing when different colour schemes were used to show the fluorescence results, e.g. T-GFP signals are shown variously in green (Fig 1), white (Fig 2B) and red (Fig 3C), and Sox2 is shown in red (Fig 1) and green (Fig 2B, 3C), rather than red (which is for Tbx6, Fig 2B). Given that the FGF2/CHIR treated cells were sorted based on GFP activity, T-GFP signal should consistently be displayed- in green for all figures. Additional data / information may help: a. While it is plausible that the Tbx6 + cells might be descendents of the mesoderm progenitor, the results do not unequivocally show that they are derived from the T + ve cells. b. What is the evidence for that T - /Sox2 - cells (which also did not expressing Tbx6) were more differentiated NMP derivatives? c. Absence of Tbx6 cells in low density culture is an intriguing result. Is there any precedence that the differentiation of Tbx6-expressing cells is dependent on any signals? d. Were the Sox2 and Tbx6 immunofluorescence signals captured in emission channel other than for green fluorescence? If not, would the IF results for these two markers be confounded by the T-GFP background? e. Which are the examples of two types of mixed clones in the legend (T + mixed with Sox2 + and T + /Sox + with T - /Sox2 - ) in the FGF2/CHIR and FGF experiments (Fig. 3D)? f. The bottom panel of Fig 3C: The T + /Sox2 + mixed with T - /Sox2 - clone showed no T + /Sox2 + cells among the four cells in this figure. g. Is there any difference in the clonal types between Sorted at D2-IF at D4 and Sorted at D3-IF at Day 5 FGF2/CHIR groups? What is the rationale for testing the effect of an extended culture to Day 3 before sorting, and was there a parallel culture of FGF2 only to Day 3? 