 Summary The authors describe the main goals and provide a road-map of the 3D-Bioinfo community, a new Elixir community. A first part states the major contributions and the leading role of many European teams and initiatives in the structural bioinformatics field. Then, the current limitations and challenges faced by this field are discussed, as well as current European initiatives to address them. The core of the paper is the detailed presentation of the goals of the 3D-Bioinfo community, subdivided in activities (or topics) and few main tasks per activity. Details on the implementation of those tasks and on their interconnections are also provided, as well as their complementarity with other European initiatives (especially within ELIXIR). Major comment In the paragraph “Develop a knowledge portal to user-friendly bioinformatics and computational tools for modeling conformational flexibility of proteins”, it is surprising to see no mention of any task to define common standards and formats in the description of proteins flexibility. Minor comments “However, many challenges still exist. It remains computationally expensive to build 3D models on a proteome-wide scale” = Yet this aim is being addressed by the SWISS-MODEL initiative. This assertion should be justified. “Community will also undertake dedicated educational, training and outreach efforts to facilitate this, bringing new insights and thus facilitating the development of much needed innovative applications e.g. for human health, drug and protein design.” = As I understand it, those educational and training efforts are targeting non-informatician structural biologists, and the idea would be to provide them enough insights in 3D-bioinfo for them to foresee possible applications on their system, and apply tools or seek collaboration in 3D-bioinfo. If the training efforts target young 3D-bioinformaticians, then the link with facilitating applications is unclear. The audience could be mentioned here, for clarity. “Structural bioinformatics tools link sequence and structure data to predict protein functional sites” = This sounds like a (restrictive) definition of Structural bioinformatics tools. “[Some] structural bioinformatics tools “ would be more correct. “As for protein structure prediction, integration of data on sites predicted by different methods will increase both coverage and accuracy.” = This assumption could be softened , as the success of this integration is expected but not certain. “This enables the design of new experiments to study the function of macromolecules as well as rational design of proteins[,RNA ?] and drugs, to modify their function and properties.” “European structure-based tools have facilitated enzyme reaction mechanism studies by chemists and biochemists.“ = some references would be welcome here “The first workshop of the Activity IV is going to take place in May 2020” = This should be updated “The above mentioned themes will not only form the initial focus for 3D-Bioinfo but the steering committee will actively monitor the emergence of new technologies and/or new research fields relevant for bioinformatics approaches, which then can be fostered further as new activities. “ = why “will not only form the initial focus”, if the other focuses are supposed to emerge in the future? Cosmetic comments [ ] = to add ; { } = to remove These are small typo or missing comas that are pretty harmless individually, but some can be misleading. And summed up, they impair a fluid reading of this already quite dense paper. “The technological developments in MX in the previous decade, largely catalysed by the structural genomics initiatives[,] and the on-going revolution in the field of cryo-EM” “some of the most critical contributions to building protein 3D models from structural templates of homologous proteins{,} happened in Europe in the 1990s” “Importantly[,] European groups have made major contributions to initiatives “ “In particular, the RNA-Puzzles experiment for evaluation of RNA structure prediction methods, and a series of associated workshops[,] have been introduced in Europe,” “(i.e. CASP27, CAMEO28 and CAPRI29,30 [ ) ] for assessment of the prediction “ “Below we detail{,} the specific thematic aims of each Activity” “We will bring together the community experts to define data standards for different types of annotations [,] and integration of these annotations using a community-driven data exchange format will facilitate finding,” “Extend the content of OpenEBench by adding {a} knowledge base integrating software tools for modeling the 3D struc-ture of proteins, protein complexes and assemblies.” “methods for generating[,?] scoring, and ranking models of protein complexes” “Benchmarking studies performed so far [-] including those carried out in the CSAR52 or D3R Grand Challenge53 (...) - rely on datasets of limited size and diversity (…).” “Developing benchmarks dataset[s] / Developing [a] benchmarks dataset” “In order to foster new developments[,] focused courses/workshops will be organised on such topics” “ exploit ELIXIR{s} platforms “ 