Summary: The paper "autoHGPEC: Automated prediction of novel disease-gene and disease-disease associations and evidence collection based on a random walk on heterogeneous network" presents an enhanced implementation of HGPEC, the previous work of one of the co-authors of the paper. The new implementation allows users to integrate the data analysis steps in Cytoscape with other data analysis pipelines in R or CyREST API. Indeed, this new feature would be useful as users now can take the advantages of the network-based data analysis and visualization in Cytoscape as well as the power of statistical data analysis of R, for example. Below are my detail comments: Is the rationale for developing the new software tool clearly explained? In my opinion, the "automatic features" is not well explained in the paper. The first place where the authors introduce the concept of "automatic features" is the last sentence of the first paragraph in the Introduction section. However, there is no further explain of this concept. Hence, it is very easy for people in the machine learning community to be confused with the concept of automatic feature selection in the automated machine learning field. To clear the possible confusion, we can do two things: 1) add a citation of the paper/website where Cytoscape orginally introduce this concept; 2) briefly explain how Cytoscape provides this type of feature and how HGPEC can leaverage the facilities provided by Cystocape. Is the description of the software tool technically sound? Yes Are sufficient details of the code, methods and analysis (if applicable) provided to allow replication of the software development and its use by others? The user manual is quite detail. However, there are rooms for improvements of the presentation, for example, the space between pictures and paragraphs, and the ident of paragraph are not always consistent and pleasant to read. I highly recommend to use latex to produce the mamual. There is a Vietnamese sentence on page 10 of the manual, which should be removed. Is sufficient information provided to allow interpretation of the expected output datasets and any results generated using the tool? Partly - Please add a citation when mentioning that breast cancer is known to be associated with 12 genes (first paragraph, page 5) - Please briefly explain why the results of the demonstration make sense Are the conclusions about the tool and its performance adequately supported by the findings presented in the article? Yes Overall, the author should have further explain: what is automatic features and why it is worthy of investigation. 