The title is appropriate. The design, methods, and analysis are generally complete and appropriate with the following exceptions: The methods to obtain data from the Deltagen GPR21 mutant mice are not sufficiently described. The source of the mice, genetic, background, and backcross history are not included in the methods. Since genetic background can profoundly change biological phenotypes, this information is essential to fully understand the differences between the Deltagen GPR21 KO and the new TALEN GPR21 KO mice described here. The full sequence of the PCR product across the 29 bp deletion should be shown along with an alignment with the Gpr21 gene sequence to ensure that the deletion is indeed within the Gpr21 gene. To definitively establish that the knockout does disrupt Gpr21, it would be helpful to additionally demonstrate reduced expression of the Gpr21 protein. This could be done by antibody detection methods, mass spec, or other functional assessments of Gpr21 activity. Minor correction suggested: Page 3 – “ Strbp … probes that were located upstream and downstream of the Strbp gene … “ should probably read “downstream of the Gpr21 gene …”. The conclusions require modification and they should also be expanded to reflect broader implications of this study. The description of results in the “Next steps” paragraph should be amended. It is important in our discussions of “replication” that scientists be precise. The term replication should be used when the precise methods and reagents were used for the follow-on studies. This work does not “replicate” the original study but attempts to “confirm” or “extend” it using a different approach. Clearly robust scientific results must not only be replicable but also must be able to be confirmed or extended to have real value in advancing our understanding of biological results or drug action. I suggest the following. Replace “replicate their findings” with “confirm their findings using a Gpr21 KO mouse generated with a different technology”. The limitation that the Gpr21 protein levels were not assessed should be included in the discussion unless data are shown to address that limitation. It would also be valuable to note a more general conclusion from this study. In any work using genetically manipulated animal models, it is critical to demonstrate that the targeted manipulation is behind the biological differences being explored. While this should be obvious and generally assessed, this study illustrates one of the numerous ways in which scientists may be misled – changes in expression or function of other genes near the targeted gene. An analysis of the expression or function of nearby genes may be a general recommendation that could be made for all KO studies. 