In their paper, Fjukstad et al., have described Kvik, a web-based tool intended for KEGG pathways based analysis of gene expression data, and easy sharing and delivery of analysis results to a wide audience via web-based visualization. General feedback: The authors have tried to separate the knowledge base, from heavy statistical calculations, and those from actual visualization of the results. This would make the software both flexible for modifications, adjustable for growing data, and at the same time, could allow the end user to see the updated version of calculations by simply updating their browser. While this idea is of great value, the implementation seems not to fully correspond to the intent, and the manuscript fails to deliver the proper functionality, the applications, and the target audience of the software. I had to refer to the authors previous publication, "Kvik: Interactive exploration of genomic data from the NOWAC postgenome biobank" (conference paper), to understand the actual intent of the framework and the Kvik pathways. To my understanding, the current paper adds little value to this previous publication, even with the use case described. The authors could stress on the actual functionality of Kvik, describe more elaborate use cases, and compare it to existing approaches. The advantages of the tool are not clear: those are mentioned in the introduction and the summary, but do not really correspond to the actual implementation state, and are not addressed in the text body. Title : The title refers to the general idea of three-tier data exploration tools and their value for general use in epidemiological studies. However, the paper describes only Kvik pathways developed with their framework, and only a simple mapping of gene expression data onto KEGG pathways. Abstract: The abstract concentrates on the problem of multiple usages of the same data in different studies, and mentions that Kvik somehow solves this problem. There is no at least understandable message in the text describing how exactly Kvik is a solution. Article content: The content was hard to comprehend. Id like to mention the following major points that might be relevant: The introduction section is redundant with double notice of the features a good framework should satisfy and which features Kvik itself possesses. Probably the authors could concentrate more on what features they intended to incorporate in Kvik, and why those features are important, in the same paragraph, and describe how exactly these features are satisfied further in the implementation. The introduction itself messes up the target audience: in the beginning it mentions that Kvik is to provide a simple framework for developers to apply advanced statistics on the data, but later on mentions only that the easy to use feature of Kvik is for the end-users to see the visualization results. As continuation of the previous comment, the paper fails to describe how exactly a user can modify the statistical analysis algorithms in the R scripts (outside the application is not sufficient). This seems to be one of the main features of Kvik, and it is mentioned in the introduction and mostly in the summary, however no further explanations or examples are provided in the body. It is not true that having a browser is everything that is needed for using Kvik. Its true for exploration of Kvik pathways only, but not for applying custom statistical analysis. Additionally, the users need to be familiar with how to use Docker images, and this again poses the question of who is the target audience. It is confusing to load pathways at http://kvik.cs.uit.no/ , and see FC values without knowing what these FC values actually mean. The user does not need to refer to the paper to see which values of which dataset are compared with each other to derive those FC values, and the browser only gives the information that the data is from the NOWAC biobank. Again, the paper fails to fully describe how the R script should be modified to include their own dataset and how these modifications will appear on the browser. It is too slow. With 13 Mbps internet speed, it requires more than 30 seconds to load the list of pathways, and nearly 30 seconds to load a single pathway. In the use case, the comparison of Kvik with the previously published approach is not appropriate. The authors do not clearly distinguish between gene set enrichment and pathway overrepresentation (overlap) analysis. The fact that the researchers should manually lookup gene functions is not solved by Kvik, since the output of Kvik is not the same as the output of those researchers: it simply provides mapping of expression data onto pathways. Moreover, the notion of restricted to researchers manual capacity and the results may be prone to researcher bias is not addressed by Kvik. Even though the genes appear in the pathway automatically, the researcher still has to scroll through the pathways and subjectively decide what the output means in biological sense. Thus, the output is limited and the bias is still there. There is no comparison with existing tools, except for the sentence However, these tools do not provide the adaptability needed for exploration of multi-study datasets in the introduction, which is not clear. Summary The summary is a good overview of the authors initial intent and idea, which is great. However, the summary does not really correspond to the body of the text. Minor points The browser is unresponsive when in the middle of loading one wants to push the back button. Too little data. The majority of genes in the pathways do not have associated FC values. This makes the visualization results not clear. The authors may either mention this in the paper, or provide a richer dataset. It is not clear what is meant by: required functionality for multistudy data exploration in the abstract. from thousands of people at different biological levels in the introduction. A requirement analysis for interactive exploration tools in the introduction. The authors should make clear what fold change values are used exactly, when they mention them in the text. E.g. in the For example, in Kvik Pathways we retrieve fold change for single genes part in the second paragraph of the Methods section. When mentioning bar charts in the Implementation section, the authors can provide a figure with a bar chart, or provide a respective link. In the Use case, it is mentioned that the statistical significance level is indicated by the color of the nodes frame . However, the color code is not clear and it is also not mentioned in the Figure 1 legend, nor there is any information found in the Kvik pathways. 