Maternal health is an important concern in Sri Lanka as in many other countries. Though maternal well being is addressed with vigor in Sri Lanka mental well being is not equally addressed. Hence, exploring possibilities of incorporating mindfulness into maternal care services is of much importance and has the potential to contribute significantly to scientific literature. It is commendable that authors embarked on this much needed research. In phase one, what the authors mean by “Buddhist teaching, without addition religious components” is unclear. If any use can be obtained, for health benefits from any religious material we do not see any reason of not using it and acknowledging it. Among those who took part in extensive discussions no mention is made about experience in actually practicing mindfulness. The fact that three researchers have been trained in mindfulness and are regular practitioners is noteworthy. This is essential as mindfulness involves a phenomenological component. Without substantial direct experience researchers will not understand certain components of behaviours related to mindfulness. It is also required to mention whether the researchers are capable of dealing with advanced practitioners’ queries or such services are made available when needed. This is important as all mothers who start mindfulness practice are not at the same baseline and progress is not uniform. They can be expected to behave very close to a normal distribution where some progress very fast and needing advanced help. In phase two “Pregnant women with a history of mental disorder with a psychotic component were excluded from the study”. It is unclear why only psychotic component was excluded. It would have been more appropriate to exclude those who have a known psychiatric illness in this phase. It has been mentioned that mental health variables were not assessed. However, perceived psychological benefits were assessed and positive. It is too early to count on these as the benefits cannot be directly attributed to the mindfulness practice in this design. This association, though, is noteworthy. The sample size of 12 is inadequate to have a sufficient idea on the feasibility of the intervention due to the wide variation in the variable related to feasibility. As mentioned in “Feasibility of incorporating into Antenatal Care(ANC) system” Participants opinion regarding incorporating this intervention to national antenatal care in Sri Lanka has to be taken with reservation as they do not see the operational aspects of such a program when it is scaled up. In the responses there is also an element of social desirability bias. “The degree of success of launching such a program nationally, or even locally, will depend heavily on the willingness and enthusiasm of the Public Health Midwive(PHM)s, as eventually, if the program is to be sustainable, it will be trained PHMs who will be leading each of the mindfulness session”. This is asking too much from already over burdened PHM in Sri Lanka. Our experience is that, out of the numbers who take up mindfulness training, only a small proportion will qualify to be trainers. Hence we consider planning to train PHMs as trainers is a weakness in the design. As mentioned in the discussion inconsistent attendance can be a difficult challenge to meet as take-up of this kind of interventions by different individuals vary widely. It is still premature to conclude “..a feasible way to incorporate promotion of maternal mental health into routine ANC in Sri Lanka”. Though it appears feasible to implement the intervention whether it improves mental well being as an outcome has not been assessed in this work. Hence this claim is not justified. In the abstract, there is no conclusion in relation to the set objective of evaluating feasibility of intervention. Overall, considering the dearth of literature in this area of research and the importance in relation to promotion of maternal mental well being this work warrants indexing with modifications. 