The author discussed the health effects of cooking smoke at restaurants to workers. It has interesting views and it is valuable to index the manuscript. It should be useful to evaluate and control the indoor air environment of cooking places in restaurants, even though the study information may be limited to Thailand. However, several things shown in the following comments should be revised: Some sentences are incomplete. Please check the manuscript again. The reviewer considers that papaya salad restaurants are referenced, so the author had better set the salad restaurants at the end of the list. Readers can understand which type of restaurants the reference is. Does the author have some quantitative information about the concentration inside restaurants in Thailand? The author mentioned the other countries’ situation, but no one can image the environment of Thailand. It is very useful for the readers. If not, the author must discuss the environment of the restaurant, and the similarity and difference between Thailand and other countries. Are interviewers and examiners of lung function the same persons? Are the interviews and PEFR test conducted at the same time? Second line of “Data analysis”: What are “frequency variables”? Unclear. The author uses “abnormal lung function”, “poor PEFR”, “low PEFR” in this manuscript. The reviewer considers these are the same. Please consider the usage of these terms. The author shows the covariates in the analysis at “Results”. These should be shown in “Methods”. The author writes “cooking at home” in the covariate list, but no data related to cooking at home are shown. Why? The author discussed the effects other than cooking smoke in restaurants. The above information should be important. Why did the author not include “years of working” in this analysis? The reviewer considers it is related to exposure duration and important as an exposure index. The author mentioned the healthy worker effect for severe dyspnea. Why not the other outcomes related to HWE? Please add some comments. 