Chakraborty studied sequencing data on CRISPR-induced DNA edits from Massachusetts General Hospital to show Cas9 integration into the genome. The author analyzed previously published data on CRISPR-induced DNA edits to highlight integration of Cas9 into the genome, which was not reported in the previously published study that generated the sequencing data. This study highlights risks involved in using gene-editing techniques such as CRISPR-Cas9 based system and raises important caveats that need to be considered when using the technology for therapeutics. However, the author needs to address the following points to strengthen the manuscript: The author needs to quantitatively compare the levels of AAV and Cas9 integration and whether it is statistically significant. This is important because the author is using the same samples and sequencing data to discuss Cas9 integration into the genome, which was not reported earlier and thus required to effectively highlight the results in this study. The author needs to make a clear comparison of AAV and Cas9 integration from the data in the Results and Discussion section. The author needs to support the argument that Cas9 integration is a serious hazard and is a huge unacceptable danger. This is important because the author argues that Cas9 integration is hazardous throughout the manuscript (title, abstract and conclusion). The author needs to include multiple references to previous work in the literature that have shown or highlighted the toxicity of Cas9 integration into the genome and that it is hazardous. In the Conclusions section, the author needs to briefly discuss the alternative approaches that could be used to avoid Cas9 integration. For example, the author needs to elaborate on the use of purified Cas9 ribonucleoproteins as a substitute to plasmids. The author included a sentence on this topic in the Conclusions section, but need to elaborate on the advantages of using Cas9 ribonucleoproteins. For example, in addition to avoiding Cas9 integration, this method has higher efficiency (Farboud B et al., J Vis Exp, 2018), fewer off-targets (Liang X et al. , Journal of Biotech, 2015; Kim S et al. , Genome Res, 2014 - Ref 25 in this study) 1 , 2 . The author needs to include the rationale for focusing on the genes TMC1 and DMD. Were those genes studied in the previous study that generated the data (Ref 7)? This needs to be clearly stated. If there are more genes studied in Ref 7, then the author needs to include the rationale of choosing these two genes over other genes in the study. The Introduction section could also be strengthened by briefly discussing if there are any similar studies carried out previously in the literature studying the level of Cas9 integration into the genome and their limitations. 