The authors presented a fairly comprehensive set of experiments in order to elucidate the role that nicotine may have in self-medication of bumblebees against Chrithidia infection. The experiments progress well, starting with controlled lab infection studies to lab-based diet and lifespan analysis to a semi-field foraging test. I think the authors sufficiently described the methods and subsequent results and mostly had an appropriate discussion of the relevant findings. I just have a few small issues that the authors could address to improve and clarify aspects of the manuscript. But overall it is a strong paper. First, I do think could be removed from the title as I dont think the results are necessarily contradictory, but do just show a weak effect. Just because the ingestion of nicotine reduces parasite infection and does not have a subsequent effect of increasing lifespan of infected bees, this does not mean that there are no other fitness-related benefits or that at different doses effects may not be more pronounced. I think weak effect aptly describes the findings. Generally, tables and figures could be labeled more effectively. For example, I think the fact that Figure 1 and 2 have the same x-axis is problematic given what the experimental treatments were. I think in Figure 2 it would be better to indicate that the Nicotine there is the Nicotine pre-treatment. Same for Table 2. Whereas in Figure 1 it would be nicotine diet. The legend for Figure 3 should explicitly state that these bees were all uninfected, since this is an important point, and since the lifespan data of infected bees is not represented in a figure. For the discussion and results, overall I think there just are a few other points that can be made. One is simply drawing stronger connections across the multitude of tests that were done. Infection experiments: would it be valuable to show statistically that there is no difference between the pre-treated Chrithidia and the standard (basically comparing figure 1 and figure 2)? Also is the 2-hour exposure time relevant? How was this decided upon? Same for dose of exposure. I think this needs to be discussed more thoroughly or at least a citation provided to justify this amount. Trade-off: Important to note that Chrithidia infection was found to reduce lifespan of bees (as compared to the bees in the toxicity part of the study). I think a discussion of the relevance of the doses used is important. Were any dose-response trials conducted? Presumably at a higher dose, it would be even more toxic to the bees and lower doses may not have much of an effect. Could ingestion of nectar alkaloids be a generalized response to sickness? So maybe its not as effective against Chrithidia , but this isnt the only parasite bumblebees get. A larger context into how this might influence colony dynamics and health is important. This is hinted at in a couple sentences, but since all of these studies were really done with individual bees or individual behavior, this is a significant point. Perhaps lifespan analysis of forager bumblebees would be different in a social setting. Similarly perhaps fitness benefits arent seen since its just measured in terms of individual lifespan, but maybe a reduction in parasite load affects foraging efficiency or nursing ability and thus colony productivity.