Firstly, I congratulate the team of researchers, since all clinical studies present a certain degree of difficulty. There is very interesting data in your research, which I think can be much better used. 1) I suggest that it be reviewed by experts in the translation of scientific manuscripts since there are certain phrases or very colloquial words. 2)In the summary: I would delete the word "unfortunately", simply mention that its main adverse effect is tooth sensitivity. ​​​​"N" (uppercase) is used when speaking to the total study population, when determining the number of a group, "n" (lowercase) is used. The results should include the most important data and show their numerical values, not just words. 3) In the introduction: The definition of dental sensitivity is missing, it talks about the cause but not what it is. The objective of the study is clear, I would recommend strengthening the introduction with antecedents on ACP, and formulating a hypothesis based on them. 4) In the methodology: The methodology is very well detailed. In the part of the second visit, do not use the term sessions, use the term applications. There are three applications of 15 minutes each, in a single session. I recommend using better photographs, they are not very aesthetic. It would have been good without the cotton, the bite rest on the molars performs that function. The sample size per group seems to be a little low, I recommend justifying it with other publications. The history of dental sensitivity was an Exclusion criterion? For the evaluation of the color, the ideal would have been to use the Vita Bleachguide 3D Master guides, it is more precise, and the change value between one unit and the other is the same. On the other hand, as the order by value of the vita classical is suggested, the change in color between one tablet (unit) and another is not the same among all. 5) In the results: The results must be summarized, there is an excess of tables and graphs that express practically the same thing. You should choose to use tables or graphs to express the same results. In the written part, the most important thing should be highlighted, not to report all the results that can be seen when reading the tables or graphs. Demographic data is best used as a table to express it and should include baseline sensitivity and color data, and analyze whether the groups are the same. To express the color change, I recommend using the ΔSGU (difference from the scale guide unit), please review the papers: Oper Dent. 2019 Nov / Dec; 44 (6): 581-588. 1 Oper Dent. Jan / Feb 2017; 42 (1): 41-52. 2 6) In discussion: The first part (second to fifth paragraph) are more a theoretical framework than a discussion. It is more appropriate to use it in the introduction to justify a hypothesis or the use of that desensitizer. It should be summarized and used in the introduction. Theoretical content can be used to justify the results, but it must be related. For this, the first part of the discussion always remembers the research question and then answers it, and based on that the results can be explained. Although effectiveness is a secondary result, this must be discussed. Especially since the placebo group has a greater recurrence of color over time. It is interesting to analyze and provides valuable information. Major changes are required in the preparation of the manuscript for publication, which can be modified by the authors. 