This article refers to the development of the “Integrated Biomedical System” (IBio) a system developed as a freely available Ruby on Rails application. The proposed system is multiplatform and capable of storing different data sources (genome, “interactome” and exposome) that can be used both at the individual level or to collect data from large populations. For this manuscript, the authors described the use of data gathered through different wearable devices to monitor some physiological parameters, such as heart rate or sleep patterns, and GPS data gathered from the MyTrack app and how they were uploaded into IBio. The development of systems similar to the one described in this manuscript is an interesting step for the future integration and analysis of multiple data sources. The aim of the paper is to develop an open source platform to integrate different data sources “providing a unifying model to promote more open data sharing and analysis”. Unfortunately the manuscript fails to present evidence of having successfully achieved that aim or how this system would solve some of the problems mentioned in the introduction associated with other projects such as using “a relatively narrow set of measurements, or on custom data storage and analysis architectures that do not provide a scalable foundation for larger scale integration across studies to enable meta-analysisis of data from multiple studies” (Ricke DO et al. F1000Research 2018). The manuscript does not describe the suggested unifying model and it is limited (because it did not mention the use of any standards) to a set of “ad hoc” implemented scripts/modules to a limited set of devices and measurements and does not show any evidence of having used any "genomic data". It neither provides neither descriptions nor evidence of how IBio promotes more open data sharing and analysis. Data integration is limited to store the data in the same platform but keeping the three different data types separated from each other. The results section is mostly focused in comparisons between the different devices rather than in the system itself. Because of these reasons and despite working in an extremely interesting area this manuscript cannot be approved unless it undergoes major and extensive revisions in its design and its contents. Major revisions 1. The article should provide a much better and extensive analysis of the existing literature and approaches and how these data are integrated or stored in the same repository. This analysis would facilitate identifying the existing alternatives, their deficiencies and therefore would put in context the contribution of the proposed solution. An example of relevant existing contributions would be the work developed by the National Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K) (1) but also other approaches such as those described in the references 2 to 7. In addition, other interesting approaches are the initiative known as “WikiLife” and the UK Biobank ( http://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk ). Wikilife aimed to manage and integrate different data sources and has left some software ( https://github.com/wikilife-org ), which could be compared with the system described in this manuscript. The UK Biobank also contains information similar to the one stored in IBio (It does not contain GPS data but does contain some other sources of geographical information that might be used to input exposure data) and its structure might be useful to compare both systems. From a technical and technological perspective for data integration and data sharing the manuscript did not mention any standardization initiatives or attempts. The authors should reflect upon this issue. A relevant example in this direction is the work developed by Open mHealth (http://www.openmhealth.org/) (8,9). These are all aspects that should be included in the paper and considered in the discussion or interpretation of the results as elements of comparison. 2. The use of the term “interactome” in this manuscript is very confusing. It is widely accepted that the “interactome” is the set of interactions among proteins (10) whereas the authors have employed it in this manuscript in the context of physiological parameters or phenotypes, making it difficult to relate to the actual contents and data. Therefore, it should be replaced across the whole text with some other term that better describes these elements. 3. The methods section provides some information about some of the data contained in the system, and how some volunteers gathered some of the data. Despite the manuscript mentioning the use of genome data by iBio, the methods section only reflects that they store information from other sources. The authors did not mention how the information from the different resources was integrated and related. This is critically relevant information that should be included in the manuscript. The manuscript did not provide any criteria for the selection or the inclusion of the different devices data used to build the system. The “interactome” section describes elements designed to interact with the Basis Science website for the collection of these data however the company stopped offering their services on 31 st December 2016 thus those modules are useless and therefore they can be removed from the text. 4. The exposome subheading in the methods section refers mostly to sleep data gathered using some wearable devices (the some previously described in the “interactome” section). These data are not exposure data but physiological data. Other proper exposure data such as diet and prescriptions are poorly described and not referred at later stages with the exception of GPS data. Information about how these data are managed and stored in the system is relevant and should be provided. V.g. Were they entered just as free text? 5. The results are not clearly related to the aims of the manuscript and should be revisited to better present the actual results of their research. A large part of the results presented actually relate to comparisons between the devices used by the participants rather than about the platform itself. The results section seems to focus more in the research question "Do different devices produce the same results?" than in the integration aspects which allegedly are driving the research and the manuscript. Methods section should contain information about the methodology used in these comparisons. As the manuscript is describing a system based in a database the structure and contents of this database should have been presented in the results section. Results should have focused as well the interfaces developed for the system, user experience or the comparison with other existing platforms. One of the main aspects of the manuscript is data integration, however with the results presented in the manuscript it is unclear the benefit of having the data in this platform or having three different platforms storing the same data 6. The results section strikingly lacks results about the integration of any genomic data despite frequent mention of these data in the manuscript. For testing purposes the authors should at least enter some data (that could be collected from online resources) or could be simulated. 7. Surprisingly, the authors distinguish between exposome and exposure data in the results section, what is the reason for that? By definition the exposome is the whole set of exposures of an individual. A detailed reading of this section shows that it just reflects about the possibility of including GPS data into the system that potentially could be linked with other sources such as the EPA. This is an interesting idea but sadly the manuscript lacks details about how this integration is performed and it should be included in the methods section. 8. The discussion section is subdivided in four different elements, (vision, genome, interactome, exposome). Overall, the discussion very vaguely discusses the results presented in the paper, instead focusing on potential future applications and listing potential data sources. The results section should be revisited to actually focus on the discussion of the results. The discussion starts with a vision that talks about genomic data, however as previously mentioned there is no evidence in the manuscript that any data of this kind has been uploaded into the system but these data are not mentioned anywhere in the manuscript other than in the methods section. This paragraph also mentions that the system demonstrates the ability to integrate data in near real-time. This is not evident in the manuscript. As the system requires manual input of the data by the user it is unclear how this can be considered “near real-time”. These statements should be therefore corrected to better reflect the reality of the system as presented in this manuscript. The “Genome” subheading in the results section must be removed or heavily amended. It provides a vague description of what can be done with genomic data and lacks evidence to support any other of the claims made. It is important to mention that the manuscript does not provide any references about how any genomic data can be uploaded into the system and therefore does not actually discuss any results. It also contains some vague references to some tools (that require a proper citation) that are not included in the system and there is an absolute lack of evidence that the system would be able to support any detailed analysis of any molecular data (genetic, protein, pathways…). In the current text, it is unclear what difference this system would make in terms of the analysis of the different variants in terms of automating these analyses or broadening their focus. 9. The conclusions are vague and should be edited to better reflect the status of the system and the actual conclusions from the work presented. For example, according to the manuscript, it is unclear how without adequate integration this system would be able to provide useful information in medical environments (for medical personnel) or decision makers without analysing security or data sharing issues. Other conclusions are based in future improvements done in the system which are not available yet or haven't been described and in an integration that at the moment does not go any further than storing data together in the same platform without actually integrating them. The authors themselves acknowledge that the system requires improvements in the user interface, aspects that should have been addressed much earlier in the manuscript and that are key for the success of these kind of applications. 10. Surprisingly, a large number of the citations are incorrect and do not refer or match with the contents in the manuscript. (e.g. references 8, 15, 18,21,22,24,25,26,27….). Minor corrections 1. As a minor element in this aspect notice that reference 10 should read as Martin-Sanchez et al rather than Sanchez et al. 2. In the methods section authors said that in some cases the volunteers underwent a microbiome analysis but later on there are no mentions of this data nor how they can be incorporated therefore it should be removed from the manuscript. 3. In Figures 1A and S1 there are elements that are not mentioned at all in the manuscript or being part of the system (For example miRNAs, Ancestry, Pathogens). 4. Apparently, there is some sort of colour code used in the interface, it would be interesting to provide a description of that… 5. As previously indicated the “interactome” subheading in the discussion should be modified to better describe the results rather than vaguely talk about potential benefits derived from data integration. 