It is important to examine the trends of age-specific mortality rate and to identify the causes. I suggest that this manuscript would be indexed after revision. My major comments : Title : Matlab DHSS is located in rural Bangladesh and does not represent urban Bangladesh. In this case, suggestion is to add either “rural Bangladesh” or “evidence from Matlab DHSS” in the title. Abbreviations : Suggestion is to add “WHO: World Health Organization” which I found in the 1 st paragraph of “Introduction” and delete D1 to D4 as these are not the abbreviations i.e. shortened form of different causes of death. D1 to D4 are the operational symbols of different causes of deaths. Introduction: In 2017, Reference 3 “WHO: world health report 2002” is not acceptable. Authors should cite current WHO report on NCD which is available online. In the 2 nd paragraph, how Reference 5 is linked to the Reference 6 as authors did not mention whether NCD is also a burden in sub-Saharan Africa. They can mention “why NCD is increasing in South Asia”, “what is the prevalence of NCD related risk factors”. In the last paragraph, instead of mentioning “Bangladesh”, they should mention “rural Bangladesh” and in order to emphasis why it is important to study the mortality trends of rural Bangladesh; they should add that “In Bangladesh, population is mainly rural, almost 80 percent of the population living in rural areas” with appropriate reference. Materials and methods : D4 is “Injuries and miscellaneous cause” which was not mention properly under ““Abbreviation” section and “D1 to D4” should remove from the “Abbreviation” section to this section. In the reference 8, Alam et al. who used Matlab DHSS data, mentioned that verbal autopsy (VA) was conducted to identify the causes of death. Authors should check the information whether VA was done in their case or not. If yes, they should mention it in this section and add “VA” in the abbreviation section. Demographers normally get the total number of deaths from vital registration and in order to know the causes of death, VA is the most appropriate. In this section, authors should mention that they run ‘Chi-squared test’ to examine the relationship between age and different causes of death for both sexes, which they presented in Table 8 and 10. In the 1 st paragraph of the result section, authors mentioned “ Injuries and miscellaneous causes showed a statistically significant declining trend ” and in the 2 nd paragraph, “the total number of deaths from noncommunicable diseases was significantly higher than in (delete “in”) the rest of the disease categories for both sexes”. Authors should mention here about statistical analysis before presenting the findings in the result section. Cause-Specific mortality rate : Definition : delete “of disease” as particular cause can be either disease or injury or accident etc. Formula : it should be “per 1000”, not 100 Consent to participate : This article is based on secondary data analysis. Suggestion is “All participants gave their written consent when ICDDR,B collected data for vital registration”. Results: As authors presented their study findings in tables (mainly Table 5 6); they do not need to mention the findings of each row and column in text. They should mention only the important findings which they will interpret in the discussion section. Example: the main focus of this manuscript is NCD; in this case, congenital malformations, neuro-psychiatric, digestive disease, genito-urinary are not relevant to highlight in the result section. Discussion: Authors repeated their study findings in the 2 nd , 3 rd and last part of 4 th paragraph which they should not do. In this section, they should interpret their results and describe the significance of their study findings by comparing with the findings of other studies. They should do critical analysis of their study findings. In the 1 st paragraph, they compared their study findings with a hospital based study where the respondents were elderly patients and this is not relevant as Matlab DHSS is population based. And in the last part of 1 st paragraph where they mentioned about a cross sectional study; how this study finding is related to interpret their study findings. Limitation of study : Author should add this section. In this section, they can mention that they do not have detailed and correct information about causes of death related to NCD; e.g. whether “respiratory disease” is representing only COPD, which is NCD or other respiratory disease. In the similar way, whether “endocrine disorder” includes only diabetes or other endocrine problem like Thyroid disease. In Tables 5 6, I did not find the information on 2000 and in Table 7 I did not find the information on “respiratory”. Does it mean that these information were not available, if yes, authors should mention in this section. My minor comments : Authors should avoid repetition; e.g. In the last paragraph of Discussion and first paragraph of Conclusion “huge portion …..year by year”- more or less same meaning. Table 5 is for male, so no need to mention “male 2004” under “Frequency and Percent”. Same comment for Table 6 Table 1: could be re-organized. After the column “Total deaths”, authors can add the column “Overall rate per thousand” D1 and Rate: These two columns under D1; 1 st column is for total number of deaths due to D1 and 2 nd column is death rate per 1000 due to D1. These two columns can be reorganized D1 | D2 | D3 | D4 Total deaths | Rate per 1000 | Total deaths | Rate per 1000 | Total deaths | Rate per 1000 | Total deaths | Rate per 1000 | Table 2: authors should delete two digits (.00) after the number of total deaths. They can add one more row for “Total percentage” in addition to “Total deaths” Table 3 4 heading can be re-arranged: Age | 2000 | 2004 | Group| Midyear population|Total deaths|Rate/1000| Midyear population|Total deaths|Rate/1000| 2008 Midyear population|Total deaths|Rate/1000 