This case report summarizes the case of an elderly man presenting with inguinal hernia that became recently symptomatic. During laparoscopic repair, nodules were found in the sac. Biopsy revealed metastatic ileo-caecal adenocarcinoma. Whether to go ahead with the repair using a prosthetic mesh or no repair in such advanced metastatic disease is a matter of controversy. The present case is interesting as the primary cancer turned up to be an advanced ileo-caecal carcinoma. I have the following comments: I presume the procedure was done trans-abdominally i.e transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) approach. This needs elaboration. Why there is no comment on the laparoscopic exploration of the abdominal cavity upon the discovery of the nodules? Was the primary seen laparoscopically especially as it was a right hernia which was repaired? Why was clinically bilateral hernia found, but laparoscopically, only the right side was obvious? It is worth including a figure of the laparoscopic view of the nodules. Was the idea of sending the nodule for frozen section entertained? Why was not a preoperative chest x-ray done, as the patient was elderly undergoing a laparoscopic abdominal procedure? If done, why were the metastatic lung nodules missed? There was no mention of the abdominal examination. Also no mention whether the tumour was causing any obstructive symptoms or not? I disagree with the authors’ notion that “ acutely incarcerated hernia has a great chance of containing a tumor ”. This is not supported by our daily surgical practice. However, it needs to be emphasized that acute hernia incarceration in the elderly should raise suspicion. I also find the suggestion of “ doing routine fibrooptic sigmoidoscopy in all patients presenting with hernia to exclude co-existence of inguinal hernia and colon cancer ” is an ‘overkill’. I believe this should be selective and only if there is an indication or a clinical suspicion of co-existing colorectal cancer. I agree with routine histopathological examination of the excised hernia sac. The authors did not discuss the surgical approach recommended in such cases of metastatic nodule in the hernia sac when discovered during the repair. Will the surgeon go ahead with the repair or not? Is the use of a prosthetic mesh advisable or not? The discussion is deficient on the literature review of similar cases especially that of metastatic intestinal/colorectal primary. It is worth listing such cases which were reported over the past 10 years in a table and whether they were discovered electively vs. emergency, open repair vs. laparoscopic, or mesh vs. no mesh, etc. A spelling mistake in the 2 nd paragraph of the Discussion: Complainant should be corrected to complaint. 