This opinion piece covers the pertinent issues we are currently grappling with as genomic medicine gains momentum. The authors highlighted the many facets and far-reaching consequences well. The authors discussed how we have moved from single genes to panels (many genes) to whole exome and genome sequencing and the use of bioinformatics to identify relevant variants. An important issue is the different tools available in bioinformatics, how these are applied in specific cases and how these effect what is regarded as significant and what is not. This field is growing and it will continue to improve its algorithms so to increase the accuracy of variant calling. In addition, distinguishing between normal variation and pathogenicity is currently problematic when working with non-European populations. Concerted affords are underway to address the underrepresentation of diverse population (Ramesar 2015 1 ). The authors state that genetic counselling will be increasingly more significant. It is important to mention that the role of clinical genetics i.e. taking a comprehensive family history and using clinical information to guide and or assist with the interpretations of genomic data will remain important. Except for the traditional role of genetic counsellors helping consumers understand and make informed choices as pointed out, the role of genetic counsellors is expected to expand to include providing support to other healthcare providers involved with the ordering of genomic tests, assistance in developing online tools and education for both professionals and the public. One aspect that requires more consideration in the genomics era is the need for education. The authors quote Abrams and colleagues that highlight the need for public education so that consumers can make informed decisions. Education for the public is essential but there is also a need for education of medical and other health care professionals as they will increasingly be involved in ordering and or interpreting genomic tests and use these results in the care of their patients. There are so many tests to choose from which makes it difficult to evaluate which have clinical utility. The authors highlighted the ethical dilemmas related to data security and privacy. Ethical dilemmas have been highlighted since the start of the human genome project (ELSI). The issues related to incidental findings and informed consent could be included in the article. 