This is a timely and much-needed paper that deserves to be widely read and cited. It provides the first systematic review and meta-analysis of old epidemiological data pointing towards a long-acknowledged association between HPTs and birth defects. Most of the paper is devoted to apparently rigorous statistical analysis. We leave constructive criticism of the statistics to other, more appropriately qualified reviewers. Instead, we confine our comments to the historical context and factual details presented in the paper. These, on the whole, are entirely satisfactory. But some minor errors — that do not significantly detract from the overall argument — should be amended: 'Oral hormone pregnancy tests (HPTs), such as Primodos, containing ethinylestradiol and high doses of norethisterone, were given to over a million women from 1958 to 1978’ (p. 1). It is worth clarifying that HPTs were available as injections from 1950 and in tablet form (e.g., Schering’s Orasecron, Roussel’s Amenorone Forte), in the UK, from at least 1956. See, for example, Britton (1956 1 ); and https://archive.org/details/b19974760M4180/page/n45?q=amenorone+1956 . For an extended discussion, see Olszynko-Gryn (2014), available for download here . Furthermore, not all HPTs contained norethisterone; different companies used other types of synthetic progesterone, and the same goes for ethinylestradiol. ‘Oral hormone pregnancy tests (HPTs), such as Primodos (known as Duogynon in Germany), were used from 1958 to 1978, before urine pregnancy tests were available’ (p. 3). Contrary to popular belief, urine pregnancy tests were in fact widely though unevenly available between 1958 and 1978 and HPTs were never the dominant method of pregnancy testing. For a detailed timeline of pregnancy testing in the UK, please see Olszynko-Gryn et al. (2018 2 ), esp. pp. 35-36. It would also be helpful to clarify that HPTs were removed from UK market in 1978, but earlier and later elsewhere. See Olszynko-Gryn et al. (2018 2 ) for details (pp. 41-42). ‘The test principle was that menstruation would be induced in those who were not pregnant’ (p.3). At the time HPTs were variously described as ‘clinical’, ‘hormonal’, or ‘withdrawal bleeding’ pregnancy tests and it would be more precise to refer to their effect as inducing menstrual-like withdrawal bleeding , which is not identical to menstruation. Worth mentioning that Gal 1967, though a highly significant intervention, was not the first published warning against HPTs; these began to appear as early as 1956, in response to marketing literature aimed at GPs. See Britton (1956 1 ) and Olszynko-Gryn et al. (2018 2 ), p. 36. ‘However, we believe that this systematic review shows an association of oral HPTs with congenital malformations’ (p. 17). More optionally, the authors might consider reflecting on the extent to which the association they identify implies a causal association. An association between the use of HPTs and birth defects has long been recognised and was rarely in dispute. Many experts explained the association in terms of a suspected though as unknown direct mechanistic effect of HPTs on the developing human embryo. Others, however, preferred to explain the association in terms of underlying factors, e.g., a patient history of miscarriage or birth defects. This view, which still has traction in some quarters, is discussed to some extent in Olszynko-Gryn et al. (2018 2 ) (pp. 39-41). The authors might usefully offer a fresh perspective based on their findings, in the Conclusion and/or in the interesting discussion of unknown mechanisms on p. 16. 