Data on the burden or incidence of drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) in children is sparse, as bacteriological confirmation of tuberculosis in children is challenging. This study did not set out to determine the incidence of DR-TB in Pakistani children in their setting, but rather to evaluate DR-TB in children (0-18 years) who still had a positive smear microscopy for acid-fast bacilli or cultures for Mycobacterium tuberculosis positive after 2 months of adherent first-line antituberculosis treatment. The authors found a very high rate of drug resistance in this highly selected patient group (previously treated, mainly adolescents), it is difficult to extrapolate this data to other settings even in the same country. The reviewer has the following comments: Major comments: Abstract: The way in which the drug susceptibility test (DST) results are presented is confusing and the abstract data regarding MDR-TB is different from the manuscript (32 cases in abstract vs 18 in manuscript text/table). I suggest change results to: rifampicin resistance was highest at 33/50 (66%), and resistance to streptomycin and ethambutol were the lowest (6/50; 12%). Please provide the correct data for MDR-TB. Abstract conclusion: These conclusions cannot be made from this study. This is a biased study of highly selected, mainly older children for DST. What could be said is that with the selected method used to identify mainly older children with drug resistance, the yield for drug-resistant TB was high. Introduction 1 st paragraph: There is a clear difference between TB infection and TB disease. In this paragraph, these two entities are confused. It should clearly state that the numbers presented refer to infection and not disease, e.g. it is estimated that 5 million children are infected with INH mono-resistant M. tuberculosis strains, 2 million with MDR strains and (in the last line) 100,000 are infected with XDR strains. These are not TB cases! Also, there was not 1 million child TB cases “reported” – this was only estimated – only about a third of this number were reported cases. Introduction 2 nd paragraph: “Children” in this study covers a wide age range from 0-18 years. Especially in young children 5-10 years of age (before they develop cavitary adult type disease) transmission of drug-resistant strains is the main reason for DR-TB. Once they become adolescents, with adult-type disease, incorrect prescribing and/or poor adherence to medication become much more common reasons for developing DR-TB. Previous treatment in children returning with DR-TB is often not because of developing resistance, but because DR-TB was not diagnosed at initial presentation. In young children, because of the low bacillary load, a two-month negative culture does not always mean a good response – they may fail later during treatment or relapse after completion of first-line treatment. This is likely one of the reasons why so few young children were identified in this study. Methods: In resource limited settings, plans sometimes need to be made to identify the highest risk group(s) for DR-TB, which the authors likely did in this study. Unfortunately the highly selected group of children studied means that nothing can be said about the incidence of DR-TB in this community – other than maybe that DR-TB is unlikely to be higher than this study’s findings in this setting. It is unfortunate that children with poor compliance to treatment who were still positive (AFB smear or culture) after two months were excluded, as this group has a high risk of developing resistance in the first two months of treatment. The authors should define “non-compliant” to medication. It would also be helpful for the readers to place the studied cases and DR-TB cases identified during this study into context if they knew how many children in total were on TB treatment at the time of the study in this setting, how many parents/children did not consent/assent to the study and how many were excluded due to non-compliance. Are these numbers available? Results: Presenting the results in the text as “most/least sensitive” and “combined sensitivity” is confusing – it even confused the authors themselves (see abstract vs text). It is actually not necessary to repeat results that are presented in the table in the text again. An interesting observation to the reviewer is the very high rate of rifampicin mono/poly resistance – if the MDR-TB numbers are correct, 15 (30%) of these children had rifampicin mono/poly resistance. Do the authors have an explanation for this? This also has implications both for treatment and preventive therapy in contacts, as INH should still be effective. It would also be interesting to know how many of the MDR-TB cases had additional resistance to ofloxacin (PreXDR-TB) Discussion: As mentioned above, this study cannot be used to determine DR-TB in the children of Pakistan or even in this setting, as the study method of highly selected children (or rather, adolescents) does not at all represent the TB population. This data cannot be compared to data of more general drug resistance surveys. This should be mentioned as study limitations. What it does show is that in a carefully selected high risk group of adolescents not responding well to TB treatment after two months, the rate of DR-TB is very high. However, it would be far more appropriate to do DST on all children with bacteriologically confirmed TB before starting any TB treatment. Minor comments: Abstract: - Line 2: suggest changing “rapidly” to “increasingly”. - Line 3: regarding definition - add: ( Mycobacterium tuberculosis resistant to…). - Line 6: suggest: “…smear positive for acid-fast bacilli after…”. - Line 8: suggest: “drug susceptibility testing”. - Line 12 (Results): Start with total number of children in study: “Fifty children, 32 male (64%) … were included. Methods: - Page 3, 2 nd column, line 16: suggest change “not susceptible” to “resistant”. - Further, the authors use both “sensitive/sensitivity” and “susceptible/susceptibility” in the manuscript – for consistency suggest change all to “susceptible/susceptibility”. Results: - Table 1: Do the authors know the concordance of child and adult source cases’ M. tuberculosis strains DST results in the source case/child contact pairs? Discussion: - Page 4, 1 st column, line 5: suggest: “…, along with child household contacts of MDR-TB cases not being screened and managed appropriately,…” - Page 4, 1 st column, line 9: not RIF mono-resistant but resistant to RIF. - Page 4, 1 st column, line 10: extensive drug resistance. 