This Method article mostly describes an extension of the SAR Matrix approach to predict active compounds from many virtual candidates that are contained in matrices derived from compound libraries. The new activity prediction method is generally applicable to screening data to facilitate hit expand and can make use of approximate activity measurements such as % inhibition. This would be attractive in practice. The conditional probability method, which was first published in an informatics journal, is not trivial and probably not easy to understand for many medicinal chemists. Therefore, the authors were obviously motivated to make this prediction methodology accessible to wider audience in screening and medicinal chemistry. They have done so by going step by step through exemplary calculations that illustrate ideas behind this approach and show how active compounds are predicted. In addition, they report first practical applications that should make this method in combination with the SAR matrix structure attractive to many. Although the application on a library of helix mimetics is essentially proprietary (structures of active compounds cannot be shown), the statistics of the predictions are interesting. Of thousands of virtual compounds the SAR matrix approach generates for this library, only 28 were predicted to be active using the new method when processing reporter gene assay data probing the Wnt pathway. Twenty of these compounds were synthesized and tested and 5 new hits were identified with low-micromolar potency. Clearly, if the combined SAR matrix / activity prediction approach produces similar results in additional applications of this library or other screening libraries, it will be rather useful for hit expansion. Taken together, the authors have attempted to make a relatively complex computational approach easier to appreciate by a screening or chemistry audience by providing easy to follow examples and practical applications. This could hardly be accomplished in a specialized computational journal.