This is a case report of a patient with CF during a 6 month period during which she was treated with multiple antibiotics in several regimens that seemed to differ with each treatment episode. The introduction is well written and informative. The case history itself raises many questions. There are fewer details of the patient’s baseline history than desired. The lack of a specific age is not typical for case reports. It would be nice to know whether her genotype was F508del homozygous or heterozygous with a second, preferably identified, mutation. The report of high adherence of the patient is open to doubt because of the poor track record of clinicians detecting non-adherence in an accurate way, and confirmation of the degree of adherence, perhaps with a medication possession report, would be helpful. The key portion of the history detailing treatments with various antibiotics, regimens and dosing routes is interesting but lacks some key details. It is not entirely clear what triggered the more intensive 6 months. There is reference to symptoms and signs often associated with acute exacerbations, the introduction seems to focus at least in part on exacerbations, and the discussion refers to “acute treatment of exacerbations,” but the patient’s course is not described in a way as to identify when pulmonary exacerbations were specifically diagnosed or treated. This detracts from helping readers understand the circumstances for which different treatments were initiated. In the discussion, the authors discuss the possible effects of dual inhaled antibiotics, but I find it difficult to associate such use with a superior outcome even on an anecdotal basis because many drugs and regimens were employed in response to what seems to have been multiple clinical situations during the 6-month case history period. I think the report could be improved by providing more patient history prior to the 6-month period of focus, better assessment of her level of adherence, clear definition of pulmonary exacerbation as used in this patient’s case and clearer description of triggers for different treatments as well as more precise descriptions of outcomes. An additional outcome to consider including would be the results of subsequent bacterial cultures and any changes in resistance patterns. A study of dual inhaled antibiotics compared to intravenous would be of interest. However, there are likely to be many barriers and difficulties developing a generally usable protocol. Some mention of these barriers might be helpful to explain why such a study has not been done. Finally, to help readers in areas of the world where trade names are not the same or the medications are not available, Promixin, Azli, Tobi, Tazocin and Coly-Mycin should be identified by their generic names in addition to the trademarked names. It would be better, I think, if they were referred to by their generic names in preference to the trade names. 