The authors describe a curated dataset of 4831 adult intensive care patients treated at the Bristol Royal Infirmary between 2015 and 2019. Two critical care data sources (ICCA and ICNARC) are linked and curated to create a single comprehensive ‘research ready’ dataset. By publishing the curation process the aim is to help external researchers make secondary use of their own routinely collected data. Fundamental barriers to making the required data available for secondary research use are discussed. Due to privacy constraints, the dataset is not fully published but external researchers may gain access through a formal application process. From the perspective of a novice data scientist and clinician this was an insightful and informative paper. The data note explains the rationale, barriers and methodologies allowing transparency and reproducibility for interested external researchers. Scripts outlining the dataset curation process were easy to follow with step-by-step commentary. Making this information accessible provides the opportunity for deeper understanding, in particular to those new to data science but curious about its potential. This is important given the need for close collaboration between clinicians, researchers and industry stakeholders to realise the full potential of routinely collected data to improve patient care. The authors discuss how the publication of the data note and curation methodology contributes to overcoming the barriers of data format and data linkage. However its role in mitigating barriers associated with data privacy is less clear. Further explanation may be of interest as the tension between maintaining data privacy and usability of data for researchers is highly relevant in this field. To illustrate the barriers related to data format, the authors describe the challenges in locating and harmonising a single data element such as heart rate within the Philips ICCA clinical information system (CIS). The high level of configurability, where data elements can be renamed and relabelled between sites, can prevent cross-site collaboration and sharing of these modifications using code review despite using the same CIS. As these factors are beyond the researcher’s direct control, we would welcome the authors’ perspective on how commercial companies could make this process easier. 