The paper by Strech et al. on tracking the timely dissemination and publication of clinical study results addresses a very relevant topic especially in academic clinical research. Since the metrics on published trials per institution/organisation are easily available through public databases such as the ‘trialstracker’ project, the ethical and scientific dimension of incomplete publication of clinical study results is gaining increasing public attention. Consequently, universities and university hospitals are asked to define measures on how to track and improve publication rates. Based on a literature review and an exploratory tracking of registered clinical trials conducted at three leading German university medical centres, the authors examine and discuss ten different tracking variables for clinical study publications. They finally come up with a set of recommendations on how academic institutions and private companies could increase trial publication. In my opinion, the work is clearly presented and cites the relevant literature. It uses appropriate methods and gives sufficient detail to be replicated by others. However, the detailed results of the review of follow-up studies is not given in the paper as it is planned to be published elsewhere. While I agree with the overall methodological approach and the results, I do not agree with the entire conclusion: Responsible party for clinical studies: according to ICH-GCP, the overall responsibility for a clinical study including the publication lies with the study sponsor. Institutional follow-up on studies where the overall responsibility is with a third party (e.g. with a commercial sponsor or another academic institution in case of academic multicentre trials) will increase the bureaucratic burden of the institution without increasing publication rates. I would rather enforce that academic institutions establish policies to follow-up on the trials where they have sponsor-investigator responsibilities. Source of sampling: Sampling studies at the IRB level will not resolve the problem of incomplete/inaccurate sampling. For instance, a positive IRB vote does not necessarily mean that a study has been started and IRB data on study discontinuation are probably as incomplete as registration data in public registries. Furthermore, depending on national legislation, IRB data are not publically accessible. I therefore would strongly support to rather invest in institutional policies that support mandatory study registration in a public study registry. Timeliness of dissemination: I disagree that a 24-month period after CD should be enough time to publish even for busy investigators. This might be the case for studies, which are rapidly accepted for publication. In the case of studies with e.g. negative results, or results from discontinued/incomplete studies, substantial delay can derive from submission and resubmission processes. The clear definition of ‘timely’ therefore needs a publication platform that is equally accessible to all study sponsors, independent of study ‘success’. On the other hand, I strongly support the overall recommendations that registration and publications activities should be better linked. I also think that registration and publication should be tracked for all prospective interventional AND observational clinical research and should include publication tracking for discontinued/incomplete studies. I like the idea that academic institutions should develop policies and incentives to improve registration and publication. By supporting clinical researchers during registration as part of a mandatory policy established at the University Hospital Basel in 2018, we could double the number of studies registered at clinicaltriasl.gov within one year. These are relatively easy measures with substantial local impact. However, on a national/international scale I am convinced that only a multi-stakeholder approach, including e.g. academic institutions, funders, IRBs and publishers will improve traceability and publication of study results. . 