The article provides the validation of the Polar RS800CX in rest and during an exercise test when compared with a reference Gold-Standard ECG. To do that, a full database is recorded and several times, frequency and entropy indices are compared. Similarities between Polar and ECG measures are found in the rest stage, but not during exercise and recovery phases. Therefore, the use of Polar RS800CX is not fully recommended in exercise tests. I found the paper interesting but I have some comments that should be discussed in order to improve the understanding of the entire work. Introduction: A more detailed introduction is needed, especially in two different areas: HRV (why is it so useful, which parameters can be extracted from it and how, what is the meaning of these parameters, has the respiration got any implication in HRV analysis?) and in the conditions that HRV could be applied in sport analysis (is it easy to point out the QRS complex in a noisy ECG? What happened with the non-stationary nature of HRV during exercise? How could the frequency analysis be affected with the high values of respiratory rate? Is there any component associated with the cadence/rhythm?). These details must be mentioned to put in context all the peculiarities of HRV analysis in sport. Methods: Volunteers and experimental protocol: what is the sampling frequency of the ECG? Is the cycling cadence controlled? Has the respiratory rate been registered and analysed somehow? Analysis of heart rate variability: does QRS detection work fine? Was any artefact detection and correction applied? An explanation of the different indices (their meaning, how they are computed) must be included, especially for frequency indices (the method used, the frequency limits, and is the respiratory rate considered in HF?). Also, a plot with HRV extracted from the Polar and HRV extracted with the ECG may help to understand the paper. Statistical analysis: Due to the non-normal distribution of the results, I think the Spearman correlation test for correlation and Wilcoxon test for differences between polar and ECG are more appropriate than the Pearson and paired-sample t-test. Is the error rate presented in any Table? Results: For the 3 Tables, if the distribution is non-normal, median and IQR are more suitable than mean and std. Why does the correlation limit change from one Table to another? If r0.75 is the value marked, it must be maintained in all the article. By the way, why 0.75 and no other value? If the correlation appears in all the values of the Table, maybe it is better to not mark with * in all the cells and only say this in the Table explanation. The number of subjects is another parameter that maybe would be better to say at the beginning and not put in all the cells. The Tables are too big, so a little simplification may help to understand the final purpose of the article. For example, mean RR-STDRR and mean Hr-STDHR are not too redundant? Maybe with only one pair is enough. Also if the indices are defined in the methods section the Table caption is reduced considerably. Discussion: This part is based in the comparison between ECG and Polar, but if you have analysed 24 parameters, I would explain something more about them (differences between stages, why to trust or not to trust in one/some parameter(s)…). Possible explanations of the differences in ECG and Polar, reasons ‘a’ and ‘b’ are not supposed to be controlled by the investigator? To finish, more details about possible practical applications could be given too. 