One of the most abundant problems in the article by Lachenmeier et al. (2020) is confusion. Many of these topics involved are described by previous reviewers and very well by Kruse and Beitzke. I would like to point out the problem of the heterogeneity of the products sampled and tested. They are very different from each other and certainly produced by many companies, in very different conditions, using variable botanical raw materials, of European and non-European origin. The origin adds great confusion to the discussion because if we consider the European hemp varieties we should find in them no more than 0.2% THC and therefore its residues in oil and extracts should be affected by this condition. In non-European varieties we have often found the THC level over 1% (five times the European level) and obviously the THC contamination of oils and extracts will be higher than in products derived from European varieties. Raw materials derived from non-European varieties are widely used in Italy because they are cheaper than European or Italian hemp raw materials (seeds and dried leaves). In Italy, the Ministry of Health has received in previous years only two reports of side effects derived from hemp oil, without the addition of CBD. The reason was that the origin of the seed used to extract the oil was from China and was used as a supplement taken over a long period of time with high daily doses prescribed by the doctor to a child and a young woman. A large number of samples tested by Lachenmeier et al. (No. 12) are leaves and flowers used as tea. In this situation the natural cannabinoid content cannot be modified by purification so only the harvest time and the age of the leaves could have a relationship with the THC content which will always be present, but certainly less than 0.2%. Tea preparation involves a high temperature for extraction and this always causes the complete decarboxylation of THC and the activation of its psychotropic effect. When we consider the samples evaluated by Lachenmeier et al. in the article, they mostly derive from CBD extract which we could find obtained in two main ways: 1. Concentrated cannabinoids (full spectrum) and 2. Purified CBD (99% pure in crystalline form). The most trusted companies use pure CBD derived from crystals dissolved in vegetable oils (sesame, olive, sunflower or hemp seeds). In the case of hemp seed oil, THC contamination is certainly in the 1-5 ppm range and this concentration is admitted by many European countries (Germany, Italy). CBD supplement or foods derived from crystallized non-psychotropic cannabinoids (CBD and CBG) should be identified on the product label so that consumers can be properly informed and could identify a company that describes it correctly the origin of the Product. Many of the problems related to the "THC-like" side effect could be avoided if the origin of the product or standardization of production could include the block chain procedure or a consortium of manufacturers following a strict production protocol (e.g. see Canadian Manufacturers Test Pledge). It is a consequence of the lack of complete and clear rules and control by third parties (National Authority) because the hemp and cannabis market includes hundreds of products with many origins and the safety of the active ingredients must be guaranteed. The suggestions to the Authorities listed in Kruse and Beitzke's document have been underlined in many countries for years and years, but politics has little interest in regulating the laws and the cannabis market probably because the size of this market is too small or probably because it is interesting for some lobbies. However, in the paper by Lachenmeier et al. there is a lot of confusion and opinions that are outside the scientific task of such a publication. Confusion is very often the strategy used to limit the ability of consumers and public opinion to make their own choices. In extreme situations, lies add to the confusion and in the case of cannabis this has been done frequently. It should be time for Europe to consider the topic of cannabis correctly and could make an objective choice supported by scientific evidence where opinion or personal orientation as reported in the article by Lachenmeier et al. should be omitted. 