The proposal for an amendment system is an important contribution on a topic central to research integrity. It is a thought-provoking and strong proposal that has merit and could be an advance if adopted broadly with a central refinement to exclude documented misconduct. A no-fault system that focuses on the integrity of the literature is positive and could have some positive effects. The attempt to encompass all post-publication change into three categories stretches a good idea too far. It overlooks impulses contributing to the current situation that features a “bewildering variety of notices” and “inconsistencies” across journals illustrated in Table 1, namely that humans seek proportional responses and labels for documented lapses. An analogy can be found in criminal justice systems worldwide, which typically differentiate conduct that has resulted in death with gradations of responsibility that factor in severity, intent, and surrounding circumstances. Findings can range from self-defense to involuntary manslaughter (criminally reckless or negligent behavior resulting in death) to voluntary manslaughter (performed in the heat of the moment) up through degrees of “murder,” a label that generally implies premeditation. Collapsing all post-publication anomalies into a no-fault system is likely to give rise over time to the creation of embellishments through additional labels that allow for degrees of fault, causing more confusion. Rather than seeking to avoid all differentiation, the amendment process could be a improvement if it focuses on documenting changes over time, and reserves another category entirely for the most serious cases of willful, intentional conduct or bad practice, cases in which the article should be disavowed completely. “Complete amendment” will be valuable for circumstances described in present proposals for “honorable retractions” and the like, as there is room for a complete replacement in circumstances that do not imply fault. If the goal is the integrity of the literature, then no-fault terms are a strong advantage in a large set of—though not all—circumstances. The crux of the matter seems to be that the authors believe that “If misconduct or fraud has occurred, this should be reported on, but such reporting should be considered as distinct from the process of correcting the literature.” The authors also state the “we strongly feel that retaining the word retraction even for the most egregious instances of scientific malpractice would further perpetuate the problem of stigma and thus is not desirable.” I disagree. Stigma for egregious malpractice is warranted. If the integrity of the literature is at issue, then notorious cases of substantiated misconduct should be labeled as such, in no small part to address the continued citation of such work. At the same time, given current uses of “retraction,” indeed, a new term may be needed to differentiate from historical usages that have not been restricted to misconduct. A middle ground is possible: if the amendment process is used for all revisions short of proven misconduct, a hybrid system could exist and be valuable: the amendment system for changes post-publication, and a different label for publications containing adjudicated misconduct. The proposal is strong where it focuses on its key principles and the mechanisms in place that now allow for clear adoption of a linking system and versioning documentation. It seems muddier when it attempts to correct vexing problems journals face when institutional review of misconduct allegations are underway. Several statements in the effort to make this case seem problematic: “The need to be fair to the authors and the need to maintain the integrity of the literature are therefore in opposition during the period that an investigation is underway.” It is not axiomatic that they “are” in opposition and this tension exists beyond the investigation period. “Thus a third principle is the need to be able to correct rapidly, while implying no fault on the part of the authors until or unless any case against them is proven.” The proposal doesn’t provide for labels of fault once a case is proven, apparently seeking to divorce the integrity of the research literature from institutional findings. “As a result, we believe a ‘retraction’ will never be fully embraced as a positive outcome by researchers.” True as far as it goes, and yet could be remedied if a category is created and reserved for documented misconduct. “…removes the emotive climate associated with retractions and corrections to published work.” This seems unlikely. Amendments post-publication are never likely to be any researcher’s choice of outcome. It could reduce the overly broad associations with post-publication notices that are indeed confusing in their lack of consistency as currently applied. Finally, the illustration in Supplementary File 1 is confusing. It begins “An institution finds misconduct from one of their senior scientists who has reused the same images to show controls in many figures.” The publisher is notified and opens an investigation into the three affected publications, as apparently the institution will not share its findings, so the illustration involves great exertions on behalf of the journal and its editorial board members to parse the appropriate label to apply. This illustration seems at odds with the descriptions of how principles two and three in the proposal will improve the current system. First, the journal’s process here hasn’t even started until after the institution has already notified it that there has been a finding, so the amendment to the literature is not independent of that process at all. Further, the authors are integrally involved in the case involved in the illustration. This is counter to my experience, where more often authors protest and will not cooperate in any corrections or retraction, and the process more often involves the institution and the journal (and their respective lawyers). The proposal does not address what happens when the authors are not cooperating, which seems an oversight, and again argues for application of the amendment process in situations absent findings of misconduct. There is nothing that would prevent amendments before and the revised/new label after such a finding. An especially strong feature of the proposal is the key principle calling for clear audit trails and full disclosure of publication history and metadata. A revised amendment system is worthy of our attention and the adoption of such a system should be considered. 