This paper presents an analysis of method choice among current users of contraception aged 15-24 years, using data from the three most recent KDHSs. Descriptive data on method-specific use are shown but the main analysis makes the binary distinction between long- and short-acting methods. In this age group, the main message is that the share of pills and condoms use in overall modern method protection has declined but the share of implants has increased. The main limitation of the paper is the omission of two key influences on method choice in this age band: marital/cohabitation status and motherhood status. The influence of marital status is critical. The 2014 KDHS shows that about 30% of sexually active single women aged 15-24 use condoms compared with only 2% of married women in this age band. Obvious reasons for this difference exist. For young single women sex is often infrequent and clandestine and risks of STI/HIV infection appreciable. Continuous protection from a hormonal method may seem excessive and offers no protection from infection. Young married women are also at risk of STIs but condom use is extremely difficult to sustain within a cohabiting relationship because coital frequency is high and trust is imperative. Without this variable in the analysis, the results are very difficult to interpret. For instance, is the negative association between length of schooling and use of long-acting methods simply a consequence of the fact that well-educated young women are less likely to be married than their less educated counterparts. The omission of motherhood status is perhaps less crucial but there are reasons to anticipate an influence on method choice. Considerable ethnographic evidence exists that women (single or married) may be reluctant to use a hormonal method before giving birth because of fears that use may jeopardise future fertility. Mothers may also find access to clinical methods easier than non-mothers. My conclusion is that the analysis should be re-done with marital status as a predictor and at least some exploratory analysis with motherhood status. The small sample sizes for the earlier two KDHSs is a restriction but much more can be done with the much larger sample in the 2014 survey. A really interesting extension would be to make use of Q619 in this survey where women are asked to classify their most recent partner as casual or a regular boyfriend. The distinction made between short-acting (pills, condoms) and long-acting (Injectables, implants, IUDs) is contentious. Many analysts prefer to classify injectables as short-acting because of high discontinuation. The 2014 KDHS indicates that the all-cause 12 month discontinuation probability for injectables is 31%, lower than pills or condoms at about 43% but much higher than implants or IUDs at 6-8%. You either need to change your definition or defend it. Method choice is certainly of interest but the paper would benefit from an introductory table showing trends in use of any modern method among married or sexually active single women aged 15-24. The opening lines of the Discussion refer to a large increase in contraceptive use but your paper presents no data to support this. Minor points: Introduction para 1: It is unclear what 20% means. Introduction para 3: The mean age of 17 is misleading because it is based only on the minority who have given birth. Introduction para 4: I do not understand what is meant by “The 15-24 year old women take about 15%...” Introduction para 5: Who has claimed that the demographic window opens in 2038? Fertility has been falling in Kenya since the 1980s. You should also explain what is meant by the window. Page 3 penultimate para: Define Larcs here. Methods para1: The definition of current use is confusing. 