In this manuscript titled “Dose response and working memory limit in an eye movement desensitization and reprocessing prospective case series” by Hassard and colleagues, the authors investigate the number of distressing images treated in EMDR treatment. The authors predicted that this number should average out to approximately 7 images and indeed based on a sample of 50 patients, this approximate number was achieved and replicated in two sets of archival cases. My overall impression was that this manuscript addressed an interesting question and the results seem to confirm the a priori set prediction. However, I have some serious reservations regarding the validity of the results given potential participants’ and researcher bias and unclarity with regard to how an ‘imagine’ was defined and counted. I also found the rationale for this study not particularly clear and convincing. I expand more on these reservations below. Introduction: For me, it was quite unclear to how this specific relates to the discussion regarding the comparison between EMDR and CBT and how this study can show that EMDR therapy is faster than CBT. To my knowledge, CBT is not (necessarily) specifically concerned with treating distressing images of patients. As such, this study is not very informative of how CBT and EMDR can be compared and whether or not EMDR is a more efficient (faster) treatment than CBT. I would suggest to focus the introduction more specifically on EMDR therapy only and how many sessions may be required there. Also, a clear argument is missing why the authors would expect that patients would, on average, suffer from 7 distressing images. My guess is that this is based on working memory theory in which it has been proposed that the number of distinct units of information that people can keep online in their short term working memory centers around 7 (e.g., Baddeley, 1994) 1 . However, to my knowledge, this proposal is somewhat controversial. Furthermore, I’m not sure why the capacity of working memory would have any bearing on patients’ number of distressing images, which are most likely based on long term memory. Why would the capacity of WM limit the number of distressing images of patients that require treatment to 7? Finally, I’m missing a link to other research investigating emotional memories and images in mental disorders (e.g., Brewin, Gregory, Lipton, Burgess, 2010; Hackmann, Ehlers, Speckens, Clark, 2004; Hirsch Holmes, 2007) 2 , 3 , 4 . I short, I suggest that the authors remove the second paragraph in which they discuss EMDR therapy in relationship to CBT, but rather focus their introduction on why they expect specifically 7 distressing images and how this may inform us about the number of treatment sessions required (is 1 treatment session sufficient to treat 1 intrusive image?). Methods: For me, there seem to be two major problems with the methods relating to this article: First, patients were explicitly informed about the seven images average (see P. 4) and, as far as I can see, also the therapist was aware of the hypothesis that on average 7 images should be expected. This is problematic, as it can easily lead to biases and desirable responding (Orne, 1962) 5 . This, to me, seems a major threat to the validity of the results, as it may just reflect bias on the part of the experimenter and demand compliance on the part of the patients. Is there any argument/reason that the authors have that their results do not reflect bias and experimental demand? In my view, this study should be replicated with blinded experimenters and patients. A second major threat to the validity of the results is that it is not clearly defined what a ‘distressing image’ is and how this was counted. Also, apparently, larger images could be split up into smaller event sequences and these would then be considered as separate sensory images (see P. 4). This lack of a clear definition of what an image is and the possibility to subdivide images provides even a greater amount of freedom for the authors to define distress images and for the numbers to influence by biases. The authors should (have) define(d) more explicitly what they considered to be a distressing image. Furthermore, it should be clarified how this was counted/calculated and by who. If it was done by only one author, this should be clearly indicated as a potential threat to the reliability of the count. If counting was done by several authors (which would be much better), inter-rater reliabilities should be calculated and reported. Discussion/interpretation: The authors conclude in the Discussion that “the distress complex tends to contain seven, plus or minus two, distress images”. However, reading the results, the average number of images was 7.68 within the boundaries 7.20 and 8.20 (based on all cases). This seems more than the expected number (i.e., closer to 8). Furthermore, there is substantial variation between the patients in the number of distress images (1-23). I wonder whether these results support their hypothesis. It seems in fact that the actual number is slightly higher than 7. Furthermore, the authors mention in the Discussion that ”this attraction towards seven raises the possibility of involvement of the working memory”. However, as I mentioned previously, to me distress images are related to long term memory, rather than working memory. It seems unlikely that any of the patients has a working memory span of 23. Furthermore, 7 images and more tends towards the highest percentiles of WM capacity (in healthy participants/students). In contrast, there is some evidence to suggest that typically anxiety patients have reduced WM capacity (Hayes, Hirsch, Mathews, 2008) 6 . Hence, it seems unlikely that the amount of distress images indeed reflects or is related to WM capacity. A more direct test of this hypothesis would be to measure patients’ working memory capacity and correlate the number of reported distress images directly to WM span scores. Taken together, my worry regarding this work is that it may be critically influenced by biases on the part of the experimenters and patients. As far as I can judge, no precautions have been taken to protect the results against such biases and there are no clear arguments given why the results can be considered to be robust against these biases. Additionally, I have reservations about the embedding of the motivation for and results of this study in the wider literature. Nonetheless, the topic of study (number of distressing images and number of required treatment sessions) is definitely of interest for the literature on psychotherapy. I suggest additional clarifications and research (i.e., double blind, clear definitions, independent raters) to permit more clear conclusions. Minor comments: Table 5: The cumulative percentage do not seem correct. Particularly, 2 patients reported 3 or less distressing images (4%). However, in the cumulative % column, it says 2%. 