The article presents surrogacy as an aspect of assisted reproductive technology (ART) and explores the challenges inhibiting the acceptance of the practice among Nigerians. The study collected its data from a particular region of the country (South West) and thus, makes generalisations on the findings. Most of the respondents were collected from one ethnic group (the Yorubas) and mostly professional gynaecologists. The findings of the study were erroneously generalised as representing the entire country. Nigeria is not a homogeneous country as presented in the title of this investigation. The country has over two hundred and fifty (250) ethnic nationalities domiciled within its borders 1 . This diversity transcends religion, culture and socio-political inclinations. Years before the 15th century, most of the ethnic groups that make up present-day Nigeria can all trace their origins to different states. Among the early states were the Benin Kingdom, the Yoruba Kingdoms, Hausa States, Nupe, and the Igbo-ukwu. Countless small states existed around the Lake Chad region which was later swallowed or dispersed during the expansion of Kanem to the North East of Lake Chad (Mbara, 2018:12). Historically, these groups were differentiated based on their socio-political organization. The Yorubas, Hausas and the Binis had a centralized administrative system while the Igbos of the East have variously been described as a “stateless” society because unlike the Hausa, Yoruba and Benin Kingdoms, they did not have a central political institution. Further, the indigenous people that inhabited the country today were profoundly divided by their historical experiences, culture, political development, and religion. Thus, a topic like this should look at surrogacy based on the teachings and practices of a particular culture or religion. Investigating surrogacy in ‘Nigeria’ as a whole makes the study problematic given the fact that the three major tribes (Igbo, Yoruba and Hausa), for instance, have very diversified cultural and even religious beliefs/inclinations which deeply impact their social existence. The author alludes to this when he declared, “What surrogacy means and the social reception it enjoys differ across cultural and social boundaries” (p.5). For this reason, this study will best suit a particular ethnic nationality or religion in Nigeria. Just as their ethnicity and religion differ, so to their belief systems are very divergent. The influence of Western education on these ethnic nationalities intensified this division among the people leaving some very conservative (the North) and others more progressive (the South) at varying degrees. This makes surrogacy a very contentious and subjective issue. Consequently, the best title for this work should be “A qualitative investigation of surrogacy as a panacea for infertility among the Yoruba people of Nigeria” given the setting of the interviews coupled with the fact that “The interview schedule was translated into Yoruba, the local language of this Western region of Nigeria for the benefit of the TBAs who might not be English speakers” (p.4). With the vast size of Nigeria and the heterogeneous nature of the country, getting most of your sample population from Ekiti State will surely not give you enough grounds to caption the findings as Nigeria. Buttressing this view, Alabi (2020:5) in his results submits, “The dynamic nature of human societies coupled with varying regulatory normative codes across cultural boundaries creates the need to examine the perception of surrogacy within various cultural settings to appreciate the differences and similarities that are obtainable in the growth of the practice as a core ART process”. Thus, he cannot lump over 250 ethnic nationalities in Nigeria and discuss them as a single culture. A little search will reveal that surrogacy has been in practice in many Nigerian societies and in different forms. Furthermore, for a more holistic view of the subject matter of this investigation, the stakeholders for the interview should have included a Christian, a Muslim and an adherent of the African Traditional Religion (ATR). This is because Nigerians are a deeply religious people and their religion impacts their culture, lifestyles and value systems. Likewise, some custodians of culture like traditional rulers from the major ethnic groups should also constitute the stakeholders. However, the problem of ethnic minorities and the fear of domination will make it more difficult to select the cultural groups that will participate in the investigation. Thereby justifying the need to narrow down the investigation to an ethnic/religious group in the country. If the investigation is done based on the above recommendation, the author will find very diversified views on the subject matter in Nigeria. Surrogacy, as presented in this text (ART or fertility treatment), is quite alien to most Nigerian cultures and so, the scholar presents it as a taboo in the country as evidenced in his findings. In the first place, ART is the medical procedures used in treating the problem of infertility. Such procedures include, in vitro fertilization, cryopreservation of gametes or embryos, intracytoplasmic sperm injection, among others. I align my thoughts with the first reviewer who declared, “Surrogacy is not an ART nor a ‘fertility treatment’ (p. 3), as the insemination in some countries is also achieved with coitus (there are documented cases in Mexico and China)” (Danna, 2020:10). The relationship between surrogacy as an ART as presented in the text is shrouded in ambiguities thus leaving room for multiple interpretations. Surrogacy (renting a womb, see pages 7 8) has been in practice in different forms in many Nigerian cultures. In some cases, the problem of infertility is solved by the man consenting to a family member impregnating his wife on his behalf. The “sperm donor” lays no claim to the child. The impotent man plays the father figure to the child who bears his name. In other cases, it was the barren wife in a marriage that took a younger wife for herself. Correspondingly, when a man dies childless, a family member can sleep with the woman (his wife) to produce an heir for the deceased (See the Igbos of Eastern Nigeria, the Ibibios of South-south Nigeria). In these cultures, these practices are often altruistic in nature. In particular, among the Igbos of Eastern Nigeria, surrogacy has been in practice in various forms like the woman-woman marriage. Commenting on this practice, Aliyu (2018: para 3) maintains: In these various societies, the wives other women married were ladies-in-waiting, surrogate mothers, and daughters-in-law… Woman-to-woman marriage allowed for greater freedom of sexuality for the wives, they could have boyfriends, anonymous men whose only duty was to supply sperm, Achebe calls them “male sperm donors”, and this was socially accepted. Any child the wives had was taken care of by their female husband and carried her name, and this was legitimate in the eyes of society. Woman-to-woman marriage practice did not include any sexual contact between the female husband and her wife. This was not "lesbianism," since none of the women who married other women was drawn to other women either romantically or sexually. Children were the prime attraction, every woman who turned into a female husband only wanted a child considered legitimate in the eyes of society. In the same vein, Nwoko (2012) gives other examples of surrogacy among the Mbaise Igbo where a family's female children jointly paid the pride price of a younger lady after the death of their father in the name of their eldest sister, so that the new bride could procreate and raise male children to maintain the lineage of the family. Essentially, a well-behaved young man was chosen by the young bride from the kindred, but in most cases, the bedmate was chosen from the female husband's blood relationship. This had significant implications as it was aimed at maintaining the blood tie of that particular family and to prevent the young bride from polluting the family by raising children fathered by persons with strange ailments, thieves or miscreants. To actualize the essence of the marriage, Nwoko (2012:76) adds: The female husband remained the sociological father of any resulting offspring. The children belonged to the lineage of her father, not to their biological father. Consequently, she played the role of the father, provider, protector and indeed all the functions and responsibilities enshrined in the patriarchal concept which included physical protection of the family and its territory, the male economic sphere, the spiritual sphere, the social sphere, etc. Surrogacy in the context of ‘renting’ a womb is still a cultural anomaly in most Nigerian cultures, but as an altruistic act, it has been around over the years. Moreover, how can surrogacy be a panacea for infertility in Nigeria? The simple meaning of panacea is “cure-all”. Surrogacy can be an option, not a panacea since there are multiple factors responsible for infertility, some are more complex than others. Various traditional treatments are available to infertile couples in Nigeria. Thus, surrogacy cannot be a panacea as the author implies. Additionally, in the abstract, 15 stakeholders were stated by the author as respondents, but in the methodology, 10 gynaecologists, 5 TBAs and 5 Legal professionals making a total of 20 respondents. Please reconcile the numbers and justify the sample size especially the 10 gynaecologists. This investigation is more of a social phenomenon than medical and should have covered custodians of some traditions/cultures. Gynaecologists can provide us with some scientific aspects of fertility treatment but not surrogacy as a cultural practice. Why were social workers not interviewed? Besides, in the data collection under methodology, the scholar declares, “The first set of questions examined surrogacy within a cultural perspective” (p.4). Who provided this information? In my opinion, the traditional rulers or elders of various cultural groups should be in the best position to provide the necessary information here. They are the custodians of the various cultures, not the TBAs. If due diligence was carried out here, the findings would have been remarkably different from what we have here. ‘Interviews lasted on average of 30 minutes.’ Unnecessary repetitions. Moreover, in p.5, the author states, ‘The opinions shared by TBAs were grounded in religious and cultural beliefs, leading to opposition to its practice”. This response was perhaps predicated on the false assumption that surrogacy is an “alternative to infertility”. Besides, one can ask, what religion and what culture in Nigeria? This gives room for ambiguities and subjective interpretations. Even when it comes to religions like Christianity in Nigeria, some sects/denominations hold more radical or conservative approach to issues surrounding modern-day surrogacy (Renting a womb with pecuniary incentives). For example, the Catholics and Jehovah Witnesses will surely diverge in their views. The same applies to the Deeper lifers (radicals) and say a Baptist Christian (conservatives). Even in ATRs, the various cultures will have varying degrees of acceptance or abhorrence for surrogacy. There are also individuals in Nigeria who, as a result of Westernisation, have accepted this practice. So many young couples in Nigeria now see surrogacy as a viable option for procreation. In p.6, the scholar declares, “However, infertility is regarded most times as a woman’s problem and evidence of sin and disapproval by both God and ancestors”. The influence of Christianity (Catholicism in particular) is fast changing this view among some Nigerian Catholics as Canon 1084.3 clearly states that sterility does not forbid nor invalidate a marriage (when there has been no form of deceit). A childless marriage is valid, and companionship is equally very important in marriages. In preparatory classes, intending couples are exposed to this reality. While a childless couple keeps seeking a remedy to their condition, they are made to understand that it does not invalidate/nullify their union. For this reason, a marriage contracted under the church cannot be dissolved for the reason of childlessness. This explains why you find pockets of couples who have been in the union for decades despite been childless. This does not, however, negate the fact that fertility is still a very integral part of the people/lay faithful. This investigation should look at surrogacy as a “viable” option in the case of infertility instead of a ‘panacea’ since it is an exploratory study which discovered that the practice is still very alien to the people and unacceptable. The title as it is gives the impression that surrogacy was discovered to be the ‘solution’ instead of an ‘alternative’. If I am right, the author seeks to sell the idea of surrogacy as a viable option in the case of infertility, not a total solution. The word ‘panacea’ denies other viable options available like IVF, adoption, polygamy or cases where a relative impregnating the wife of an impotent brother to preserve the bloodline, or where a woman marries another woman with the sole purpose of procreation. The study pointed out the factors militating against the adoption of surrogacy as a panacea to infertility in Nigeria but failed to establish the need for surrogacy in the country thereby making the title a misnomer. To declare surrogacy a panacea requires that other alternatives were investigated and found wanting, thus necessitating the adoption of surrogacy as a “cure-all” remedy. Consider women who give birth through a caesarean section? Some Africans (Nigerians) still do not see them as complete women since they have not felt the pangs of birth. Lastly, some typographical/grammatical errors were observed in the work – articles were either omitted or wrongly used. For example, subheading (p. 7): “Surrogacy reorganizing the essence of parenthood in Nigeria” (Add colon or dash after ‘Surrogacy’), “While surrogacy might be glorious news…” (p.7. rework), “and it often seen” (p.3. Rework). 