This is a clearly presented quantitative description of heart rate variability in thoroughbred racehorses, from data sets that are publically available from ref [3] as an xlsx dataset of RR,QT intervals and analysed by standard methods. The results and conclusion are quantitative. The paper does not add anything to the methodology or interpretation of HTV analysis, or to physiological understanding of exercise effects on heart activity, but provides a standard analysis of data from an unusual (for mammalian physiology) animal, and is of potential interest to veterinary medicine. “Equine athletes” is not a term I would search for if I was looking to racehorse ECG analyses. In sports medicine an athletes could be marathon runner, a sprinter, or a weightlifter, all with different cardiovascular profiles. I know it’s used in the previous PlosOne paper, so suggest you replace horse by race horse in the abstract. Fig 1 A, b , 2A,B show RR intervals, rates from the same horse at rest and during exercise. Could “at rest” and “during exercise “ be more specific in the legend/text. A striking feature are the transient accelerations in heart rate at rest, and the slow decline in rate during exercise. Could you comment on these, in the results (are they typical, can they be quantified over the full set of data i.e accelerations in heart rate, in which RR interval dropped by more then x % in y seconds, occurred in % at rest, and y1-y2% decrease in heart rate occurred during the period of exercise; and comment on the possible physiological mechanism. This would add to the paper, and is relevant to your title as it concerns the assumed stationarity of the RR interval sequences you are analysing. Figs 1,2 C,F “frequency”: since you get into the frequency domain later in Fig5 I’d suggest replace frequency by probability (number in bin /no. of intervals) and add a tick marks for linear scale, and unit, so they are now estimates of probability density and have a common scale Time domain statistics: Figs 3 and 4: all OK, but repetitive as the figs repeat the text. I’d prefer one table + some descriptive text. Methods: Frequency domain analysis. The data in [3] is a sequence of intervals: '…using the FFT with a sampling rate of 8 Hz...' implies you are sampling a continuous signal ie. the V(t), not the point process of R events by their interval sequence (see Kybernetik. 1971 May;8(5):165-71. Alias-free sampling of neuronal spike trains.French AS, Holden AV 1 .) I think you are constructing a staircase, by plotting the interval against the sum of the intervals ie. time, and sampling this function at 8 Hz. Could you be specific about what you are doing. The power in the repolarization spectrum: I think you mean the total power is the integral of the spectral density from 0.04 and 0.4Hz, repolarization spectrum does not seem to be used in the text or figures. In the legend of fig 5 A, B identify the colours with the frequency bands mentioned in the text. Figs 5A,B PSD scales differ by an order of magnitude.: are the spectra from the same length (number of RR intervals/total time?) of data The spectra in Figs 5A, B look plausible but you need to give more information about how they were constructed [4] is a simple overview. If it were a package (say OriginPro) then give the parameters used (sampling rate, window, type,…,or specify the method in detail What was the total record length? Was it zero-meaned? Was it segmented into 50% overlapping blocks How long each block, how many degrees of freedom, what window function; Hanning, hamming,…. See any text on FFT. Since I’m not too sure of the methods you used to construct the spectra I’m not too sure about the exact meaning of Figs 5 and 6 Fig 7: Recurrence plots not Poincare recurrence ( a recurrence plot would be to have a V(t) signal in say x,y.z space and plot its point intersections with a plane, here you’re plotting RR_n+! against RR_n ie a straight recurrence plot, and then quantifing it. You explain the sample entropies and DFA but do not give the method (as a computer program say Peng’s code) or package used. If you wrote the code yourself have it as a supplement so the reader could validate it/use it on the data in [3]. 