 This is a well conducted experiment and well written manuscript. It is the first experimental test of the stress-gradient hypothesis under pollen limitation stress, showing how we can further our understanding of plant-plant interactions with a new perspective. In my view, this is a neat paper, though I have some concerns that I hope the author can address in a revision. The main limitation of this paper is that plant-plant interactions are inferred by association, not experimental removal of neighbours. Although a number of studies from alpine habitats suggest that facilitation can be indicated by positive association relationships, this limitation I feel should be clarified in the paper. It is also a bit confusing to me why the authors did hand pollination for reduced-pollination treatment plants - was this because reduced-pollination treatment plants did not receive pollination at all without hand pollination? If so, the question would be how the authors controlled the magnitude of hand pollination as compared to natural pollination. A third issue is that the pollen reduction treatments lacked procedural control. For example, one cannot tell the effect of mesh on the data. Also surely, the authors need to provide some details about the cloth mesh they used, such as mesh size etc. It is unclear what can be the potential mechanisms for facilitation under pollen limitation. Facilitation in physically stressful habitats is produced by neighbours relief of abiotic stress, and in biologically stressful habitats by associational defence. It is not a must for the authors to experimentally demonstrate this in the paper but I think they should at least discuss some of the possibilities. The authors may also want to include descriptions to encourage future research that experimentally tests for these possibilities. I have several more specific comments: " Before bud-burst ... " Clarify the start and end dates of your experimental treatments. What is the total duration? " The first 20 female and male plants found were ... " Does the male here mean "hermaphrodite"? Use terms consistently. For treatments, how many plants in current pollination treatments are female and male, respectively? " Reproductive output measures were collected from the 40 ... " 40 hand pollinated, 231 naturally pollinated, this is 271 in total. So this number is inconsistent with the numbers described above: 273 plants were measured. There are three plants that were excluded? Clarify when the beneficiary abundance was quantified and how this was done. It is the total number of plants living within the cushion. Shouldnt it be density per unit area? How many beneficiary species occurred within your 273 study cushions? Would it be possible that beneficiary diversity rather than abundance is more likely to affect cushion plant reproductive success? Actually, the beneficiary increased cushion plant fruit set under reduced pollen limitation. This means the beneficiary was actually a benefactor. This is a bit confusing; might it use neighbours instead? " we used a generalized linear model (GLM) with Poisson distribution ... " Poisson distribution is often used for positive integer response variables. How about over-dispersion? Over-dispersion can substantially affect significance tests. " Under the current pollination rates, percent fruit-set and beneficiary abundance are negatively related ... " Did pollination reduction affect the relationship between other reproductive variables and beneficiary abundance? Overall, this is a great paper. The publication of this paper can be a stimulator of a new direction of positive species interactions with environmental stress. 