The authors investigated how the consumption of nectar alkaloids, either in isolation or combination, affect survival and pathogen load in a pollinator species. The main goal of the paper is to test the synergistic effects of two alkaloids on bee survival and parasite loads. To address this question the authors used the pollinator Bombus impatiens , its common midgut parasite, Crithidia bombi , and the natural alkaloids anabasine and nicotine, which are two nectar secondary metabolites produced by Nicotiana species. They provided evidence that both alkaloids decreased the parasite loads when bumble bees were kept under variable laboratory conditions. By contrast, they showed that nicotine but not anabasine increased the parasite load when bees were kept under controlled laboratory conditions. The consumption of the alkaloids in combinations did not have any synergistic effect, but rather an antagonistic effect especially under variable rearing conditions. The authors concluded that the interaction between secondary metabolites are complex and that environmental variables may play an important role in determining the positive or negative impact of the diet on pollinator health. The study addresses an important question and provides useful results. There are, however, some points that need clarification and some issues that should be addressed. Major concerns: In "Methods" the authors stated that " In , pupal clumps were initially incubated on the lab bench, but were later incubated at 30C in an incubator....". It is not clear if they used the bees obtained from these initial pupal clumps for the experiments or not. If they excluded them, then there is no need to report this information. If not, authors should discuss the possible implications of this "extra" stress. "The overall parasite loads in were much higher, with median parasite loads more than double those observed in "Variable". In my view this point is very important and neglected by the authors and it might partially account for the apparent contradiction between the results of "Variable" and "Controlled" experiments. There are evidences for the existence of a trade-off between alkaloid toxicity to the parasite and toxicity to the host. If the parasite load is too high and bumblebee weakened, the toxicity to the bees might overcome that to the parasite, resulting in even higher parasite loads. On the other hand, if the parasite load is lower, the costs in consuming the alkaloids might have been counterbalanced by the advantages in slowing the progression of the infection. Authors should discuss this point. Do authors have any explanation why bumble bees exposed to 2 ppm nicotine had a so high mortality rate after only 7 days since exposure? For instance, Baracchi et al 2015 also found a toxic effect of nicotine, but the detrimental effect on bee lifespan started to be evident only about 20-30 days after the start of the experiment. "Variable" and "Controlled" experiments also differed in time of year (the experiments were carried out in February-March and May-July respectively). Season is thus an existing confounding factor that authors should seriously take into account in the discussion. Authors suggested that under variable conditions, bees may have consumed more liquid, causing ingestions of more alkaloids accounting for both the higher mortality and decreased parasite load in . Here I respectfully disagree since I would expect that bees constantly exposed to high temperatures would consume more liquid. It is also possible that bees exposed to high temperatures might have less water in the faeces or might defecate less for suppressing water loss, which may results in higher parasite load. Unfortunately, authors did not provide any information about the overall quantity of sucrose consumed by bumblebees over the experiments. I think that authors should address this point with a simple additional experiment. Measuring for few days the quantity of liquid consumed, and possibly the excretion rate of bees exposed to different temperatures, might really help them to better discuss and clarify their findings. Minor points: The most novel aspect of the manuscript is the fact that authors investigated the possible interactions between two natural alkaloids. I suggest to mention this aspect in the title. In my opinion the first paragraph of the introduction is not necessary. The second paragraph of the introduction discusses about the topic of self-medication and preferential feeding on alkaloid enriched nectars by pollinators and Baracchi et al. 2015 should be included in the paragraph since it is really pertinent here. The authors dedicated an entire long paragraph on the chemical nature on nicotine used by Richardson et al. 2015 and the present manuscript. The paragraph is too long. On top of that, Richarson et al. 2015 and Baracchi et al 2015 (we amended this information in the paper) used different types of nicotine (the former used a +/- enantiomeric mixture, whereas the latter used (-)-enantiomer of nicotine, as the authors of the present work also did) obtaining the same results. Thus, it is improbable that the chemical composition of the alkaloid is responsible for the differences found. I suggest to reduce or remove this paragraph. For the "Variable" data set authors used the GLMM while for the "Controlled" data set authors used a Cox proportional hazards mixed-effects model. Given that the "Variable" data set does not allow to use a Cox prop hazards mixed-effects model, I agree with this statistical approach, but nonetheless, it might be useful if the authors analyze the "Controlled" data also with the GLMM, so that a direct comparison of the two situations would be possible. "Variable" and "Controlled" experiments also differed in the fact that only bees in the "Controlled" were kept with constant darkness, which could have an effect on bee locomotor activity, energy consumption etc.. Authors should mention this in the discussion. 