 Reviewer comment: Combinations of propolis and Ca(OH)2 in dental pulp capping treatment for the stimulation of reparative dentin formation in a rat model. Reviewer comments: In general, the research is well conducted and the findings are worth considering for publication. The paper needs a minor revision as below: Conclusion of the abstract, please omit the “antibacterial property” as the research conducted not based on the antibacterial study. Paragraph 1: “NF-kB activation due to injury causes transcription and translational processes in cells, which results in pro-inflammatory cytokine production, such as IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α, initiating the immunological process that aids pulp tissue in overcoming inflammation ” - the reviewer suggest confirming this statement as pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α are promoting inflammation, not overcome the inflammation, so need clarification on this statement. Methodology – in the animal section, the authors need to replace the “biokimia” term into the English term. Methodology – in the treatment section, the authors need to highlight the experiment is separated into two periods of time; 7 and 14 days at the initial, easier for the reader to capture, the authors need to explain why two different concentrations of calcium hydroxide were selected in the discussion. Methodology – in the immunohistochemistry section, please use a past tense to describe the terms, few in the present tense, the authors need to explain in detail on the evaluation of the expression of cytokines like the intensity of the brownish expression and etc. If possible, include references on the method of immunohistochemistry. It is because immunohistochemistry is a major part of this study. Results – The authors are suggested to include the statistical indication in Tables 1 and 2. It will help the reader to understand the table faster rather than read in the sentences. Please put arrows in the figures. Discussion – Paragraph 2; “In addition, galangin from flavonoids are also able to inhibit leukotrienes from arachidonic acid through the enzyme lipoxygenase”- authors need to state what is the source of galangin, is it from propolis? Discussion – Paragraph 3; “The 14th day is probably when the process of proliferation and angiogenesis has been initiated”, need to improvise the statement as the proliferation and angiogenesis are at the peak in the 14 th day. Discussion – Paragraph 5: “Ca(OH) 2 is used as an intracanal medicament and is antibacterial. Ca(OH) 2 is used because it is stable for a long time and can kill bacteria”. The authors are suggested to further discuss the details on the effect of calcium hydroxide as caries always related to bacterial infection. Discussion – Paragraph 8: The authors need to add elaboration on the anti-inflammatory activity of TGF at the late stage. Conclusion – the mechanism on the stimulation of the formation of reparative dentin needs to be addressed based on the present findings. 