 Summary This article presents the methods and findings of a study in which a heated (not combusted) tobacco product (referred to as the Tobacco Heating System, or THS) was made available to current cigarette smokers who volunteered to participate and to maintain detailed diaries of their tobacco consumption, including cigarettes, THS, e-cigarettes, and any other nicotine-containing products. The study consisted of a one-week baseline period, six-weeks of observation, and one week ‘close-out’ period. Participants were invited from a large market research database. Approximately 1300 participants enrolled, of which 1100 met the minimal cigarette and THS use criteria (one each) and by the end of the study 965 had completed diaries and were included in the statistical analyses. In addition to data on tobacco product consumption, participants provided information on socio-demographics (sex, age, race/ethnicity, household information, marital status, educational attainment, occupation, income, etc.); smoking and tobacco use (number of cigarettes or THS or other products, intention to quit); and THS product assessment (taste, smell, aftertaste and ease of use). Patterns of tobacco product use and changes over the six-week observation period were reported. Logistic regression with stepwise inclusion/elimination of variables (and first order interaction terms) was used to identify predictors of THS adoption (defined as 70% THS use). Participants of older age, selecting both THS flavors, users of and more favorable product assessment (taste and ease of use factors) and those never having attempted to quit were significantly more likely to adopt THS. Gender (not statistically significant) and ethnicity (statistically significant) contributed less. Study strengths and weaknesses are well presented. The main strength was that this study closely monitored actual use of cigarettes and THS (and other nicotine products) over six weeks. One unavoidable limitation is that THS was provided to participants at no charge, and whether the observed patterns would be different if THS users were required to purchase their supplies. General comments This study generated several interesting and potentially helpful insights regarding real-world selection and use of THS among current conventional cigarette smokers. It appears to be the first study to provide such preliminary insights regarding how THS might be received in the United States. The study methods, data collected, statistical analyses and results all are clearly presented. However, the discussion remains somewhat thin, i.e., individual analytical findings are addressed in succession, but the overall conclusion and integrated findings have not been fully explored. Interpretations of study findings should be compared more broadly with the published literature on other non-combusted tobacco or nicotine-containing products, as well as the possible impact of THS adoption among current smokers in the US. While important insights were generated regarding the group of smokers who volunteered for the study, no inference can be drawn with regard to non-tobacco users or users of other nicotine-containing products. The need for post-marketing studies is noted, but suggestions for their objectives (or specific research questions) are not offered. What specific additional studies would build on the initial findings reported here? A more minor point: the text would benefit from careful editing to correct some grammatical errors and primarily to make it more idiomatic. Specific comments Abstract The abstract needs improvement in content as well as structure. Background: The final sentence presents the study aim; this largely is restated (with more detail) under the methods section. The reference to logistic regression reflects part of the study methods and should be moved. Methods: The only information provided is that tobacco users were observed over six weeks. A brief but more informative overview of the study design would be helpful. Results: This appears to be reasonably complete. Perhaps response rates (which were remarkably good) should be stated. Conclusions: This section largely repeats results (and only some) and recommends post-marketing studies, but provides no interpretations, synthesis or policy implications based on this study. Introduction The introduction is informative and well presented. Is it possible to provide some examples of MRTPs available in the US? Perhaps it would be helpful to clarify the status of e-cigarettes with respect to MRTPs. Methods The methods are clearly described. A few suggestions: Setting: How or why were these study locations chosen? The reference to “Good Epidemiological Practice” should carry a citation, and perhaps be moved under Study Design. Products: THS is described in greater detail here, and does not reflect any methods. Perhaps the description of the three components of the THS should be moved to the introduction where the THS is first described. Data collection and measurements: There is no mention of what took place during the final “close-out” week (it may not belong here, however). Analysis: the logistic regression approach is reasonably clear, i.e., stepwise selection and (presumably) backward elimination to remove parameters with p0.05. However, the choice of p0.05 should be more clearly justified - what is the impact of eliminated parameters on the coefficients of those retained (i.e., is there evidence of confounding and does confounding increase when these terms are eliminated)? Results Study participants: response/participation rates (which are remarkably good) should be presented. Potential predictors of adoption of THS: Adoption of THS by men and women differed by nearly 30% but was not statistically significant. Should this be presented as “no influence of sex”? Discussion How might the statistically significant reduced adoption of THS among heavier smokers and among non-Latino smokers be interpreted? Did these groups increase their conventional cigarette use or simply fail to adopt THS as much as other groups? Might the results suggest that these smokers are more habituated or committed to smoking conventional cigarettes? It seems intuitive that adoption of THS would be preferentially higher among those who found it easy to use and more enjoyable. Is there any alternative interpretation? Similarly, might study participants selecting both THS types reflect populations more interested in variety than single product loyalty? How might these observations be used to predict what might happen in the US if THS were broadly available to current conventional cigarette smokers? Can some quantitative range of projection(s) be made regarding what proportion of cigarette smokers might adopt THS, i.e., quit conventional cigarette smoking? I noticed that the two study locations in a US state (i.e., NC) where tobacco is an important crop – and cigarettes are produced – were the least likely to adopt THS. This is interesting and might be explored further. Japanese studies demonstrated higher rates of THS adoption among smokers intending to quit smoking combusted cigarettes. In contrast, this study demonstrated higher adoption of THS among those who never attempted to quit. How might this be explained? What are the characteristics of smokers not intending to quit but adopting THS (vs. those not adopting, or those intending to quit)? 