We appreciated reading this paper by Habib and colleagues on a topic that is timely as many countries are assessing the utility of different platforms for routine malaria surveillance data and, importantly, how best to harmonise them. Overall, the authors demonstrate that the MIS data is more reliable than the DHIS system, which they attribute to the comprehensive data validation and quality assurance mechanisms embedded into Global Fund grants. They conclude that further research is required, but it is seems clear that the MIS platform is advantageous. Rather than conducting further research, what is likely to be more useful now are developing more detailed recommendations on lessons learned from the MIS system and how this could be adopted or incorporated into national platforms once donor funding ends. Specific areas that would benefit from additional clarification or modifications in data presentation include: Introduction: “Stratifying the country into high and low burden sharing areas has further contributed to the difficulties in proper disease surveillance.” – Some explanation as to why and in what ways this has caused issues would be helpful. “Limited evidence has been found regarding the comparison of various malaria surveillance systems in Pakistan.” – Is this because there have not been parallel reporting systems in the country until recently and have there been similar assessments conducted in other countries? Methods: This study was conducted between July and September – was there any influence of the season on the survey? “Fever cases with sign and symptoms of malaria area screen as suspected cases, confirmed through microscopy and rapid diagnostic test (RDT) kits.” – Is there any prior evidence of discordance or different reporting rates between the two methods in the country and how might this be accounted for in the analysis? Results: Is the reason that MIS reporting coverage has gradually increased due to the fact that the MIS is targeted and this indicates that burden has increased in these districts? Some details on how Global Fund MIS-supported districts are selected should be included. For instance, what are the risk-strata used to select? Figure 1 - It would be helpful to include more detail to address whether there are potential structural explanations for the discordance between reporting systems. For example, are there separate forms in the districts with both systems? Figure 2 – The data presented here may be more clear as a bar chart indicating the proportion or percent of MIS-reporting districts out of the total Table 1: The data in this table would benefit from being reported by risk strata or endemicity. Is there are reason for the lack of MIS data in AJK and Punjab regions? Zero reporting data can be represented with a dashed line instead. Table 2: Do the reporting discrepancies differ by province/region or over time, given that the number of MIS-reporting districts gradually increases over the period of the study? The methods used to calculated ABER and TPR should be detailed in the footnotes, as well. There should be further details in the methods regarding how cases are confirmed. Percent difference is a somewhat unclear way to present the differences, as their comparison between different metrics is not easily interpreted. In the Table title, “impact in donor supported districts”. It should be clarified that this study is in places with both systems. Similarly, for the text “During 2013-2017, all districts across Pakistan reported on DHIS”, it should be clarified that this is only in districts which also had the MIS system. Discussion: “…there is a huge-under reporting” – “Huge” should be expressed as “significant”, with the appropriate statistical tests to justify this statement conducted. “This study reveals major differences in the numbers of suspected screening for malaria and confirmed malaria cases” – It would be good to clarify whether this underreporting is due to data not being entered and reported. “When there are parallel reporting systems with different recording and reporting tools in the same health facilities, the data quality is usually compromised as entering the data into separate platforms results in more errors.” – Some discussion by the authors about the specifics of the data forms/platforms that might result in biased reporting would be useful here. “The second important factor to be explored will be that of who is responsible for data entry and reporting into DHIS and MIS at the very basic level” – Similar to the comment above, details or examples of staffing differences that might lead to systemic differences in reporting would be useful for the reader here. “DOMC introduced RDT kits in health facilities without microscopy diagnosis facilities in the high burden districts…This may have resulted in screening of more suspects using RDT” – Can the authors clarify which year was it introduced and whether this coincides with any temporal variation between DHIS/MIS discordance? 