This is a well-designed and clearly written paper about describing the incremental yield of selective culture for Burkholderia pseudomallei (BPM) in sputum samples routinely submitted for culture in a Provincial hospital in Cambodia, where melioidosis is endemic. I have the following comments: Most readers will not be familiar with melioidosis. It may be useful to state more explicitly in the Introduction that culture for the time being is the only reliable way for diagnosis of melioidosis and that recovery of BPM from any sample and in any quantity always means infection: this is especially important as for most other bacteria grown from non-sterile samples (as respiratory secretions), colonization and oral flora contamination must be excluded, which may be done by, among other criteria, based on density of growth. Second, based on this observation, selective media have been recommended as part of routine sputum culture in endemic areas. The main weakness of this study is that there are no data about indications of sampling and selection of patients and from the Discussion can be learned that probably no well-defined indications have been used. So it is not clear whether all patients were suspected of lower respiratory tract infection and acutely ill, or if they selected, for instance, based upon initial treatment success and ability to pay for the culture etc.. The authors should emphasize this non-selection somewhat more, and, for instance, display data or at least an idea about the proportion of patients cultured in relation to the total (estimated) numbers of eligible patients with acute respiratory tract infections. Likewise, some data about the patients profile (age (median/range or IQR) and gender would be of interest, as well as the distribution between hospitalized/outpatients - the spectrum of organisms cultured as mentioned in the Results suggests a high proportion of hospitalized patients. In line with the above, I think the authors should reconsider amendingtheir conclusion: they are right by stating that selective enrichment culture media would be more rewarding in settings with high(er) incidence of melioidosis, but there is for the time being no sound evidence about the to assume that the incidence of melioidosis in their place will be lower than, for instance, in Thailand. Moreover, and as the authors state in the Discussion above, sputum and other microbiological cultures are probably not yet exploited to the best extent by the clinicians and probably also cost-prohibitive for many patients, reason why identification and selection of at-risk patients and pre-test probability may have been more important than overall incidence of melioidosis (as the authors state in the Discussion). In other words, if the enhanced testing protocol would have applied on for instance, middle-aged patients with diabetes presenting with overt signs of pneumonia/sepsis, incremental yield and cost-effectiveness may be much higher. So I suggest to consider rephrasing the benefit may be more apparent in patients selected upon risk factors and clinical presentation Likewise, the Abstract (final sentence) may be rephrased to focus more on selected indications for sputum sampling. The authors may add some information about the referral population of Kampong Cham hospital: rural, agriculture... 