 Title and Abstract : The title is catchy and appropriate given the content of the article. Article content : The article is very well written and is easy to read and follow. The article would be much improved if it included an introduction to respondent drive sampling (RDS) with particular emphasis on the assumptions required for RDS to work (reaching equilibria and otherwise) written in clear terms to a lay audience. Describe what it means for the sampling process to be in equilibrium. Currently, readers do not have the necessary information to reach an informed conclusion as to why RDS did not work well in this instance or to assess whether it is applicable to their own work. The rationale for RDS assumes the existence of a social network in which the probability of a tie between a wheelchair user and a randomly selected wheelchair user exceeds the probability of a tie between a wheelchair user and a nonuser wheelchair user. What evidence that this is true? Do wheelchair users have sufficient social and other relationships importantly enough for them to be able to name sufficient other wheelchair users for the next round of sampling. Is it possible that many wheelchair users are isolates (in the network sense) because they are highly functional in everyday life and thus have reduced need for a community of wheelchair users? I don’t know the answers to these questions and still don’t as the needed background information is not provided in the article. It would have been helpful to have been told the current state of knowledge about social networks among wheelchair users along with a connection of such knowledge to the assumptions under which RDS can yield unbiased population-level inferences. I would like to see some discussion of how RDS handles scenarios such as isolates in the wheelchair user network. Presumably, the only way such individuals make it into the sample is if they were randomly selected in the first (i.e., seed) wave. Please add some general intuition for how RDS yields unbiased population-level estimates. Discuss the role of and derivation of individuals’ sampling probabilities and thus sampling weights for computing population estimates. For example, the work of Thompson (2006a, 2006b, 2003, 2000 – see below – the 2012 text on Sampling and recent arXiv contributions) should be reviewed and used to inform the article. References: Thompson, Steven K. Targeted random walk designs. Survey Methodology 2006. 32:11-24 Thompson, Steven K. Adaptive web sampling. Biometrics 2006. 62:1224-1234 Chow, Mosuk, Thompson, Steven K. Estimation with link-tracing sampling designs - A Bayesian approach. Survey Methodology 2003. 29:197-205 Thompson, Steven K., Frank, Ove. Model-based estimation with link-tracing sampling designs. Survey Methodology 2000. 26:87-98 Data (if applicable) : Details about the design/data for the study are lacking. It is stated that 20 wheelchair users were the initial seeds of which 12 agreed to participate (60% response rate). It then appears as though 4 of these 12 participants culled 7 further participants in the second stage of sampling. Question: Did the remaining 8 seeds not generate any wheelchair users (i.e., does the enrolment rate for the second stage equal 7/12) or was the plan to only ask 33% of the initial seeds for links to trace (in which case the enrolment rate is 7/4)? In the third stage, there was no addition to the sample-size. Were the 7 participants who entered at the second stage each asked to name other wheelchair users; is the enrolment rate at the third stage 0/7 or 0/x, where x7? Was there any limit as to how many wheelchair users a seed to subsequently enrolled person could name? A lot of these questions would be answerable if the design of the RDS was described in the article! Conclusions : The discussion makes a number of good points that have appear sound and logical. The primary point made is that the current study may have failed because the wheelchair user population has different characteristics from populations where RDS has been used successfully. This is a valid point. But shouldn’t this point have been considered when the study was design? Was there any prior information to inform the parameters of the RDS design? Maybe RDS would work quite well for the wheelchair user population as long as the number of initial seeds is much greater than 20. A more positively-framed Discussion might leave readers with a more balanced appreciation for using RDS in their own studies of wheelchair users or other new populations. 