Genetic algorithms (GAs) represent an adaptive computation technique with applications to various optimization problems, borrowing ideas from biological systems – with solution populations and operators that mimic DNA mutation and selection. As the authors of this report mention, GAs can suffer from issues of convergence to local optima, as all optimization algorithms do. It is proposed that a variable mutation rate (as opposed to the more classical approach of a constant mutation rate) can contribute towards better optimization performance, away from local optima: the longer the GA remains at a local optimum, the higher the mutation rate can become. This is the key idea that is addressed in this work. The study is interesting as it focuses on the mutation operator which has not been researched sufficiently, compared to the crossover operator which has been studied quite extensively. The proposed solution - namely a variable mutation rate as an independent variable, at least in one case - is compared to other optimization techniques, such as random search / hill climbing / Nelder-Mead. Experiments are performed for well-established, highly controlled optimization problems, such as the N-Queens problem, maximization of a 3D surface and the Rastrigin function. Performance in terms of both accuracy of solution and efficiency of resource consumption was monitored for all experiments. Interestingly, while adaptive mutation has a two-fold performance in both terms above for the N-Queens problem, there is no significant difference for the 3D surface problem. This is interesting work, but relevance to computational biology and real-world solutions is somewhat peripheral. I am sure the authors are investigating applications of their approach to larger problems, as alluded in their title - which unfortunately is somewhat misleading: without the terms ‘diagnosis’ and ‘therapy’, this would have been a fine, technical report on an exciting subject. Hopefully, we will see some further development towards that direction in the near future.