The article “A cross-sectional study of the use and effectiveness of the Individual Development Plan among doctoral students” by Vanderford et al. examines the use of Individual Development Plans among biology and physics graduate students at U.S. universities. Through the use of an opt-in survey advertised on social media, the authors received over 650 responses about the usefulness of IDPs. The goal of the study was to provide information on how widespread the use of IDPs is and how effective they are in helping students explore careers. Understanding the efficacy of IDPs is important as this is an increasingly important piece of the career and skills development portfolio for grad students. However, I have serious reservations regarding the survey instrument and the interpretation of the resulting data. It is not clear from the survey instrument or the methods section that all survey respondents completed an IDP. If respondents have never completed an IDP, their responses to questions about the efficacy of the IDP in Fig. 1 would likely skew the data in an unfavorable direction. The authors should describe whether they ensured that only those who have completed an IDP took the survey. If they did not use this screen, the authors should describe how data from those who haven’t completed an IDP might affect their data on IDP efficacy and take this into account when drawing conclusions. If the authors did ensure that all respondents completed an IDP, this information should be clearly stated. In addition, the authors should better define the denominators of the percentages reported. For example, if 33.7% respondents find the IDP helpful, is this 33.7% of those completing the survey or 33.7% of those that completed an IDP? If a student completes multiple IDPs, isn't it possible the student could agree with questions 2 and 3 (complete IDP annually with advisor and complete IDP annually but don't talk to advisor)? Overlap in these populations, as is apparent in the supplemental data spreadsheet provided, could complicate the analysis of the data in Figs. 2 and 3 as it is not clear which experiences respondents may be referencing in their answers to the questions. How are we to think of the values presented here in light of the study referenced that analyzed the use of IDPs among postdocs? If the data here show that more grad students fill out IDPs than postdocs, this may provide insight into how and why different populations use IDPs. The negative tone of the article is surprising. The authors rightly point out that the IDP is poorly studied and this survey is one of the first analyzing use by graduate students. Therefore, this study establishes the baseline for IDP use among grad students. If the authors wish to characterize the use of IDPs as low or ineffective, the authors should take time to discuss their expectations and what previous data/experiences were used to set those expectations. For example, the overuse of “only” in the first paragraph of the results communicates these values fall below the authors’ expectations. Recognizing that these values will likely never reach 100%, what constitutes broad, acceptable use of an IDP? Furthermore, an IDP is supposed to help students set a path for developing skills relevant for their career. The authors should discuss what “minimal effectiveness” of IDPs means in the context of the respondents being students who do not have experience understanding how their IDP relates to securing subsequent jobs. The interpretation of the data from the first question of the survey “My institution/college/department/PI/advisor requires me to compete a formal IDP” should be more guarded. This question asks respondents to comment on institutional or departmental policy. Respondents may disagree with the statement either because the institution does not require an IDP or because the student does not know institutional policies around IDPs. Additionally, some institutions had dozens of respondents. How consistent are responses to this and other questions when looking at respondents from the same institution? The authors should provide figure legends beyond the figure titles to help the reader understand the data. 