 General remarks: The author has investigated the question of how many protein coding genes are encoded in the human genome, and come to the conclusion that while protein coding gene counts from a variety of resources do appear to be converging, there are still significant differences. One key aspect the author has maybe not fully appreciated is the considerable level of collaboration already occurring between the cited resources, which can be both advantageous - by reaffirming correct annotations - and disadvantageous - by perpetuating erroneous annotations through multiple resources. At the same time, definitions of biotypes, and membership within in each biotype, do still present differences which groups, including members of the CCDS collaboration, are looking to unify. Furthermore, while different interpretations of available data can of course cause discrepancies (and this is perhaps an area where more work is required by the community to reach agreed standards, for example see PMID 26367542 1 ), unsurprisingly some resources access different datasets which cause further differences. While collaborations, definitions and data-sharing could be tightened up, there is no doubt that what is most needed is concerted experimental investigation of the remaining putative/hypothetical/dubious protein coding loci that remain within the genome, so that the resulting data can be used to decide upon a definitive biotype for these loci. Overall this is discussing an important question but there is a tendency to be rambling in sections and I think the paper needs better organising to highlight some interesting questions the author raises. Some assumptions made about the various projects also need to be corrected, and more attention to detail is required for the numbers quoted to avoid confusing readers. Specific remarks: use of "miss-" throughout instead of mis- Ensembl, not Ensemble Entrez Gene is more widely referred to now as "NCBI Gene" - but variously referenced throughout the ms as "GeneID", "NCBI genome annotation", "RefSeq and Gene", "NCBI Entrez Gene", "GI", "NCBI", "NCBI pipeline automation" etc... GENCODE, not GENECODE HGNC is HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee (not Human) neXtProt, not neXtprot Abstract: I disagree that the only suggestion that total numbers of protein coding genes may rise is from reports of smORFS - as the author discusses later in the paper, even the very few genes reported to date to encode "smORFs" have limited evidence. I would anticipate most increase would come from careful re-annotation using increasing amounts of data (conservation, RNAseq, etc) and from annotation of multiple haplotypes that may cover regions of the human genome that are not currently included in the reference assembly and could be included in the future as alternate loci by the GRC. Introduction: While saying that the longest mRNA strategy has data support, it would also be worth mentioning the exception of read-through transcripts which can confuse this strategy significantly. Historical Growth: It could also be worth noting that Ensembl and Swiss-Prot/UniProtKb are also coupled as Ensembl sequences that are absent from UniProtKB are imported into UniProtKB/TrEMBL and tagged as part of their human proteome. Ensembl's statistics make it very clear the number of proteins encoded by readthrough transcripts and on "alternative sequence", so I don't see how these could be said to "complicate" the figures. The issue of how many of the proteins (and protein coding genes) included on the alt loci are not represented in the primary assembly is however an interesting question. Figure 2 shows the Swiss-Prot protein counts divided into total in red and those with protein or transcript evidence in blue - it would be nice to have the 2017 figures actually stated as opposed to having to guesstimate them from the graph. Current Counts: The author does not seem to understand the relationship between GENCODE (not GENECODE), Vega/Havana and Ensembl. It is nicely explained on the GENCODE site: https://www.gencodegenes.org/faq.html Hence none of these figures are truly independent at all, and any differences between Ensembl and GENCODE figures are likely due to release asynchrony. As it is unsurprising that GeneCards, which combines data from a variety of resources, has the largest "protein coding gene count" it is equally unsurprising that the CCDS consortium has the lowest as they are looking for the consensus CDS from Ensembl/Havana (=GENCODE) and RefSeq. I disagree with the statement that mapping identifiers across sources can "establish if the protein sequence in pipeline output A is the same as pipeline B", and indeed the author discusses the example of BACE1 which shows this is not necessarily true; however, this discrepancy is not due to the mappings themselves or how they are made, but simply due to the methods of protein prediction/selection used in each resource. The mapping may correctly suggest that both pipelines are considering the same genomic locus (in this case the BACE1 gene), but agreement on the encoded protein(s) is not guaranteed. This paragraph would be better rephrased to make this clear. Typo: if HGNC instantiate then they should also collate (not collates) Cross-reference counting: "However, the choice was made here to exemplify just four identifiers, Swiss-Prot accession numbers, HGNC IDs (directly, or via the current gene symbols) Ensembl gene IDs and NCBI Entrez Gene IDs. These were chosen for their global prominence but also methodological complementarity. This derives from the fact that that the first two are essentially automated pipelines (but different), while the second two are primarily manual expert annotation operations (but also different)" The first two resources in the list are Swiss-Prot and HGNC, and neither are "essentially automated"; I think the author meant to say "last two" as nowhere else in this paper does he suggest either of these resources rely heavily on automation. As discussed earlier, the Ensembl gene set is a merge of their automated predictions with Havana manual annotations, and the manual annotations make up the vast majority of the protein coding genes. Likewise, the NCBI "Entrez Gene IDs" undergo extensive manual curation, especially for the human set. Therefore I would disagree that any of these four resources are "essentially automated pipelines". Figure 3 is very confusing with all of the "zero" segments - this figure would make more sense if it was an "all by all" comparison, as opposed to being based solely on the Swiss-Prot dataset. In fact I would venture that a simple table would be more readable, and as stated later in the paper this is a "Venn-type set(s) that generally end(s) up being more confusing than illuminating." Further, the numbers listed in Fig 3 do not correspond with those in the text - in Table 1 20,617 mappings were listed for "GeneID"/NCBI, whereas here there are 18,896, a difference of 1,721, not 2,923 as stated in the text. And for HGNC 19,957 is 924 higher than the 19,033 listed in Table 1, not 905 higher as stated. The reason for the increase in mappings to HGNC IDs is more likely the inclusion of mappings to loci that HGNC do not regard as protein-coding, such as immunoglobulin light chain segments, than it is due to Swiss-Prot having more than one HGNC ID in any given record. In fact this explanation is discussed in the next paragraph where the types of loci enriched in specific segments are discussed, such as immunoglobulin light chain segments and endogenous retroviruses (note again the NCBI pipeline is referred to as "automation" which I do not think is a fair representation). I think it would make more sense for these two paragraphs to be rewritten to present the reasons more coherently. Perhaps it also would have made a better comparison to limit the Swiss-Prot data to loci that ALL four resources regard as protein coding, or to at least present how many of the loci in some segments of the diagram each resource individually considers as protein coding? This would also have made a comparison with the figures in Table 1 more valid, as currently the figures in Table 1 represent a different set to those being compared in Figure 3. Finally, the zero figures in the Ensembl (not Ensemble!)/Swiss-Prot and NCBI/Swiss-Prot segments must reflect their efforts to map between resources, though I am surprised there are no differences at all, even due to update cycle asynchrony? These figures certainly do not result from HGNC importing everything that NCBI and Ensembl annotate automatically (which I note Michael has suggested in his review), as this is definitely not the case. In the next paragraph 19,035 rows are quoted (twice) for HGNC data, but again this does not tally with the figure of 19,033 quoted in Table 1 for HGNC protein coding loci. Existence Evidence: In the figures quoted with evidence from Peptide Atlas for Swiss-Prot and neXtProt (17,084 vs 18,083) I would disagree that this could be described as a "slight" difference; this is nearly 1000 loci, which is at least 5% of the protein coding loci in the genome, even using the highest of the counts cited in this paper. What is the reason for this difference, it would be interesting to know. In the next paragraph the figure of 152 is quoted for the HPA-only set, but from Figure 5 this looks to be 158. Which is correct? Typo - "...complications include the 40-residue of putative protein FAM86JP...". Also note that while FAM68JP does not have cross-reference to NCBI Gene or Ensembl from Swiss-Prot these can be found in HGNC and NCBI Gene. The last paragraph of this section again mentions the issue of IG chains, which most resources do not class as "protein coding". Small Proteins: HGNC symbol is APELA (not APLEA). Typo: "...to generate P0DN83 and P)DN84 for a 34 residue mouse and human proteins..." The name of the second smORF (DWORF) is not actually mentioned until it is listed in the bullet points, it would be good to introduce "DWORF" by name in the paragraph above. I do not agree with the author that from the (paucity of) evidence cited for these examples that it is therefore "certain" that additional smORfs will be discovered, I think "likely" would be more appropriate. Data Availability: When discussing data update cycles, note that HGNC have daily updates and I think the same can be said of NCBI Gene, so these are both far more frequently than monthly. Again the figure quoted in the text does not match numbers given in Figure 3: this section says that the query for HGNC cross-references gave 19967, while Fig. 3 quotes 19957. Typo: "...pre-selects are not necessary since is human Swiss-Prot derived..." 