This is an interesting article and approach, but the results presented are too preliminary to assess how useful this approach may be for biologists. The title is fine but the abstract is not sufficient and reflects the deficiencies of the paper. While the idea is interesting and could potentially lead to discovery of new “words” in protein sequences, in its current state, the paper is restricted entirely on the language aspects. There is no expert knowledge on protein sequence/structure/bioinformatics that has gone into the design of the study or the analysis of the results. There are no references at all on prior work on this topic and the methods are described in too brief format. For example, when were the 100,000 sequences downloaded from pdb and does this represent all sequences. What secondary structure elements were included from DSSP/Stride? What cut-off was used to arrive at the reduced dataset, and how many protein sequences were included in the final data analysed? While it is reasonable to compare unsupervised protein words with secondary structure elements, it does not make sense to assume that the boundaries have to be fixed. In protein structures, the exact boundaries are not precise and that contributes to difficulties in further improvement on accuracy of secondary structure prediction. Furthermore, there are differences between the types of boundaries predicted, so discovery of a coil-helix versus a coil-sheet would have different error rates. Secondary structures are only one type of segmentation, there is others such as protein interaction recognition elements, enzyme active sites, posttranslational modification indicators etc that also carry “meaning” as a “word”. Last but not least, the paper neglects the contributions of tertiary structure in the definition of meaning in biology. All of these issues are much more likely to contribute to the low performance than the speculation on data imbalance. Of course, the pdb structure dataset is extremely imbalanced, and this is noted wrongly in the text that “all current protein data are unbalanced”. The proteins in the pdb are a very biased subset of proteins that crystallize, thus highly over representing small soluble proteins.