Genome-scale metabolic modeling (GSM) has gained interest over the last 2 decades as an increasingly powerful methodology for interrogating cell physiology and function. One of the holy grails in this field is the development of high quality models fully automatically, which would enable analysis of organisms from sequencing data alone, and, for example, integration of modeling with the interpretation of metagenomic data. A large contributor towards this end is the group at Argonne National Labs, which has produced RAST (a genome sequencing and annotation database), SEED (an automated platform to build genome-scale metabolic models), and now Kbase (an integrated platform that allows users to utilize the power of RAST, SEED, and many other functionalities). This article describes a new, automated pipeline for integrating phenotyping data (i.e., growth of an organism on many individual substrates in a microwell plate, such as in Biolog analysis) with genome-scale metabolic modeling in order to improve an automatically built genome-scale metabolic reconstruction produced through the automated RAST/Kbase system. This is an important problem and a technical issue that can greatly improve model reconstruction, automated and manual (the early stages of manual reconstruction are typically automated nowadays as well). The approach seems to provide satisfactory results. However, I have a few concerns about the approach, relating to its originality and some of its features. In general, it is not totally clear from the paper what its main contribution is, and how it is differentiated from previous work. This should be explicitly explained in the introduction, etc. My specific criticisms are as follows: Major criticisms: As far as I can tell, the problem that PMAnalyzer solves has already been solved previously. For example, in the original paper describing SEED ( Henry et al. , 2010 ), 22 models are automatically optimized against existing Biolog data. The paper reads: A modified version of the Growmatch algorithm was included in the Model SEED pipeline to identify and correct the possible errors in the models that cause the incorrect predictions [in Biolog and essentiality data] In order to claim that PMAnalyzer is novel, it must be compared to such previous methods and shown to be superior or different in some way (I might simply not understand the difference; this should be explained clearly in the text, or some comparison shown). In general (and as stated before), please compare this work to previous works and explain what is the main scientific novelty of the paper (i.e. how does PMAnalyzer differ from previous works? Also if the sequencing / analysis of this organism is novel, that should also be explicitly stated as well). It is not clear from the text what part of the model building pipeline PMAnalyzer actually does (i.e., does it only analyze the growth curves? Does it do that and also run the gap filling? Etc.). Please explain this explicitly in the paper. I suggest also providing a schematic similar to Figure 1, but that specifically shows what the inputs and outputs to PMAnalyzer are (and optionally shows some of the internal mechanics of PMAnalyzer). Please remark on and justify whether there is an optimization step to reduce false positives (which is mentioned in the discussion, but not the results). The final paragraph of the results lists false positives, but doesnt go into detail or attempt to explain why these occurred; I suggest that the authors give some explanations here if possible on why these are tricky biological cases. Figure 3 would be greatly improved if the authors listed on each panel whether it was called or by PMAnalyzer. This is, after all, a way for the reader to visually validate the method. Minor criticisms: Please explain the genesis of equation 4, as it is unclear how/why it was formulated this way and it forms the critical cut-off criterion for the calls made in PMAnalyzer. In the section RAST annotations, the authors state that following gap-filling, all missing reactions were cross-checked with the SEED to find similarly named reactions -- similar to what? Is this a comparison between databases held in SEED vs. in RAST? Please clarify this. It would be interesting/informative to see Figure 2 in context of other models, especially those of close neighbors (e.g., e. coli and C. koseri ). I suggest that the authors provide histograms of subsystems in one/both of those organism as well for comparison. The authors mention in the Discussion that there is an automated web server for executing PMAnalyzer. However, I could not find the link. Can they please link to this or remove this sentence? 