The paper by Walekhwa et al . aimed to determine the serum concentration of IgG antibodies as an indicator of immunogenicity, alongside the assessment of socio-demographic factors that affect IgG antibody levels in infants immunized with 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV-10) at the Mbagathi District Hospital in Kenya. Title needs to include biological mothers; the abstract requires some correction on the results section. In particular the authors say the remaining 2% while the actual remaining is not 2%. Article content Sample size The author did a sample size calculation of 384 participants. However in their study, they enrolled 318 individuals. This has an impact on the conclusions they can make whether they have enough statistical power. Data The authors are comparing antibody levels between the alcoholic mothers versus mothers who do not take alcohol. Antibody levels are usually not normally distributed. Was this the case? If yes, then the authors need to compare the levels using a Mann Whitney test. The authors use a cut off or 0.35 mg/dl for seropositivisity, however they do not indicate the number of infants above this cut-off. This is because they categorise 0.340.36 mg/dl antibody levels in the same group. The authors report on maternal diet during pregnancy; gap with other children and chronic illness. However this data is not easily visible, requiring installation of specific software. It would be better if the data were visible within the article, or attached in a more common format As such there are fundamental concerns with the analysis. Results and discussion Have sub sections with titles for each section. Each section of the results need to be focussed for instance: Demographic characteristics of the participants (infants and mothers): the authors need to present information on characteristics of the participants in their study. This include information on mean or median age, sex, weight, breastfeeding status, etc. that they collected. This is a standard practice in most scientific papers. Antibody levels in infants Antibody levels in biological mothers This will make the reader with the authors as they reads the article. Acknowledgements Should not include co-authors as they are already coauthors Conclusion Based on all these factors, the authors should revise this manuscript