Krueger and Andrews report SNPsplit, a tool for sorting mapped next generation sequencing reads into separate files depending on the allelic origin of the read. The process requires genetic heterogeneity between the alleles such that the reads can be assigned to a particular allele based on known SNP positions. Such a tool allows for allele specific analysis and becomes useful for studies on phenomena such as genomic imprinting, allelic imbalance and X-chromosome inactivation. SNPsplit improves on current methods for analysis of allele specific sequencing reads by providing built in tools for the analysis of bisulfite and HiC data, which are otherwise more complicated to analyse. A tool for creating an N-masked genome is also provided, which overcomes mapping bias towards the reference genome. To date I have used SNPsplit to process data from RNA-seq, bisulfite-seq, transcription factor ChIP-seq and histone ChIP-seq. I have not tested the built in N-masked genome creator. SNPsplit has proven to be easy to use and very stable in my run environment. Typically, a sample is processed in approximately 3 hours depending on read depth. As far as I can tell, by assessing known imprinted genes and the silent female X chromosome, SNPsplit does an excellent job of assigning reads to the correct genome, with known phenomena appearing as expected. The built in option for analysis of bisulfite data works very well on reads mapped with the bismark program. I’ve found SNPsplit to work very well for all the data types I have used it for: RNA-seq, bisulfite-seq, transcription factor ChIP-seq and histone ChIP-seq. It should be noted however that due to the requirement for a SNP to be present in the read, assignable reads from narrow transcription factor ChIP-seq peaks can be sparse and some peaks may not assignable at all. This is an unavoidable limitation, and the authors show successful assignment of transcription factor ChIP-seq reads in Figure 2, however this is perhaps something researchers should consider. Reads deriving from broad histone ChIP-seq peaks suffer no such limitation. I have no issues with the performance of SNPsplit, and neither the accuracy of how the tool is presented in the paper. Perhaps the authors could include some details that will aid researchers in experimental design? For example, for a typical SNP density what percentage of reads would be assigned to each genome, unassigned and conflicting? This would help researchers in estimating required read depths for their particular question. Could the authors also explain how vcf files are filtered for high confidence SNPs when preparing the N-masked genome? A discussion of post processing techniques for the removal of incorrectly annotated SNPs would also be beneficial. Perhaps the benefit of longer read length for assigning reads to a particular genome could also be mentioned? In summary, SNPsplit will prove to be a very useful tool for the analysis of epigenomic data from next generation sequencing experiments. 