The paper under review provides interesting research data with immunopathogenic implications for both delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions and psoriasis. Using both microarray and quantitative RT-PCR the authors found that peak DTH reactions induced by diphencyprone (DPCP) 3 days post-challenge has significantly higher expression of negative immune regulators than psoriasis lesional skin. These regulators include interleukin-10 (IL-10), cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated 4 (CTLA4), programmed cell death 1 (PD1), programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PDL1), programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 (PDL2), and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO1), and their increased expression was confirmed at protein level by immunohistochemistry. According to the authors, these findings might explain at least in part the disease chronicity in psoriasis and might provide new therapeutic avenues. Of course, further studies are required to extricate the dynamics of immune activation in DTH vs psoriasis lesions; even data on DPCP reactions at 14 days can be found in another paper by the same authors ( Gulati et al. , 2014 ) detailed microarray and quantitative RT-PCR data on the time course of evolving lesions of psoriasis is lacking. Koebner phenomenon, guttate psoriasis and rebounds following clobetasol propionate suppression of plaque psoriasis might provide interesting models in this respect. The authors discuss the potential role of IL-10 regulation in DPCP immunotherapy of alopecia areata, and it might be interesting in this context to recall k phenomenon or inverse Koebner phenomenon, namely the observation of normal hair growth in psoriatic plaques in patients with co-existing psoriasis and alopecia areata ( Mirmirani, 2015 ). Pathogenic differences between DTH and psoriasis are not limited to the expression of genes involved in negative immune regulation, as illustrated by the lack of effect of blocking Th1/Th17 pathways with ustekinumab on the elicitation of ACD by patch testing ( Nosbaum et al ., 2012 ), even though IL-1 activation of dendritic epidermal T cells and production of IL-17 seems to be important in experimental contact hypersensitivity ( Nielsen et al., 2014 ). On the other hand, nickel-sensitized psoriasis patients develop a delayed but otherwise typical allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) even in close proximity to pre-existing psoriasis plaques, with a predominantly Th17 response in psoriasis and a stronger Th2 and cytotoxic immune response in ACD ( Quaranta et al ., 2014 ). Th9 cells are skin homing or skin resident cells which have been identified both in psoriasis and ACD, but IL-9 can have pro-inflammatory or regulatory activities depending on context ( Liu et al ., 2014 ). The innate immune responses to damage associated molecular patterns and reactive oxygen species are of foremost importance for the elicitation of ACD in vivo ( Martin, 2015 ). Furthermore, the gene expression signatures and pathomechanisms of DTH reactions may differ according to the antigen ( Dhingra et al., 2014 ) and duration of exposure. Nickel and other metal ions are able to elicitate ACD through the activation of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) ( Schmidt et al ., 2010 ), direct activation of the NLRPinflammasome with production of IL-1 ( Li et al., 2014 ) and other mechanisms ( Vennegaard et al., 2014 ). Negative immune regulators include cytokines such as IL-10, IL-35 and transforming growth factor (TGF ) and membrane proteins which are greatly interdependent and subject to cross-regulation, and several cell types, including Foxp3+ regulatory T cells, monocytes and B cells can be involved in down-regulation of inflammatory and autoimmune processes. Some of these cell types are characterized by their plasticity, so their phenotype might be subject to therapeutic modulation. In conclusion, the paper by Gulati and coworkers represents a seminal work in the study of the comparative dynamics of immune activation and downregulation in several skin disorders, with potential therapeutic implications.