This is a well written article with a sound description of the Structure-Activity Relationship (SAR) Matrix (SARM) methodology. Only a few questions / suggestions are recommended. In the Methods section, you describe the definition of a MMP. Specifically, you rely on the algorithm by Hussain and Rea. Have you considered MMPs where the only change is in a ring (i.e., an aromatic versus partially saturated ring)? Continuing onwards in the Methods section, you extend the MMP concept to include Matched Molecular Series (MMS). While I believe you were the first to coin this description, there are now others who are also using this formalism (e.g. NextMove (Roger Sayle)) and some reference to these additional methods is advised, particularly to avoid confusion since the names are similar. If there are differences, perhaps you could expand on them. In the Matrix distribution and ranking section, could you expand on the matrix overlap, row overlap and matrix coverage with at least one specific example (ie show the math in the supplementary material)? Additionally, I recommend using the same variables (i.e. are " n " and " #real compounds " the same)? If so, then they should be consolidated to one variable. Additionally, its not obvious how the numbers to the right (5%) and left (30%) of the two matrices are derived. There appears to be some mis-counting of the number of targets in both Figure 7a b. For Figure 7a, are there 10? And for Figure 7b, we count 10 targets and 4 families. Make sure to check the Figure 7 caption. Consider referring to DOP-D2 as merely D2; likewise DOP-D3 should be merely D3. Check the commas and semicolons as there are inconsistencies. Can these multi-target compound series matrices be tied to Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR)? That seems as a possible extension of this current work. In Figure 7b you consider hERG and hence, it seems as an opportunity to extend beyond merely the primary activity. Consider changing the word " accessible " in the concluding remarks to "intuitive" or "interpretable". 