 Content of paper . This paper reports a set of nicely designed experiments aimed at determining whether Bombus terrestris self-medicates against trypanosome ( Crithidia bombi) infection by seeking and consuming nicotine-laced floral nectar. Using captive bee colonies and artificial flowers in laboratory conditions permits well-controlled manipulative experiments that would be effectively impossible in the field. The results are ambivalent, in that dietary nicotine does reduce the intensity of gut infection, and infected bees do seek out nicotine, but attempts to demonstrate improved health in terms of worker bee lifespan yield negative results. For the most part, I endorse both the interpretation of these results and the recognition by Baracchi et al. that further research is needed to settle the question of self-medication. I do have three reservations about the interpretations offered here, however, and I think the paper would be improved by some additional discussion of these issues. First, any anti-parasitic medicinal effects of toxic compounds will depend on dose rates. Too much medicine may harm the host; too little may exert no therapeutic effect. Baracchi et al. state that they have used dosages of nicotine, but what that means is that they have prepared solutions whose nicotine levels match those reported from some floral nectars. That is an appropriate starting point, but there may be little correspondence between the concentrations that flowers offer and those that bees are exposed to in a natural colony. Foraging workers typically collect floral nectar from various plant species that differ in nectar chemistry. Much of what they collect is not digested by the collectors themselves, but is transported back to the nest and regurgitated into communal honeypots that serve as energy stores for the larvae, the queen, and the many workers that do not forage. As this complicated cocktail is assembled, soluble compounds are concentrated by evaporation, diluted by mixing with other nectars, and probably further modified by enzymatic and microbial action. There is no reason to expect that the concentration of any particular compound in this brew bears any relationship to its concentration in one of the many floral nectars that have been pooled. Indeed, honeypots within a nest may hold different mixtures because particular foragers tend to discharge their collections into particular honeypots. I believe that explicit attention must be paid to honeypot composition if the question of bee medication is to advance. Second, by choosing to look at toxic effects on workers, Baracchi et al. are not able to detect possible benefits of medication on other members of the colony, specifically larvae or the queen. One can imagine that certain inputs of nicotine to the colony might have no net effects of worker survival but might allow the queen to lay more eggs or the larvae to prosper. Indeed, effects could conceivably be harmful for the foragers but still beneficial to the colony. There might also be different effects on workers that forage and those that serve as nurses. The social nature of these bees must be considered. Third, by considering nectar only, Baracchi et al. dont consider the probability that secondary metabolites found in nectar are also likely to occur in the pollen of the same flower species. In nature, therefore, bees that choose to forage on nicotine-rich nectars are also likely to be collecting nicotine rich pollen from those flowers. To the extent that such correlations hold in nature, the larvae (who are the primary consumers of that pollen) may be receiving very different doses than adult bees. In summary, it would be very illuminating, although tedious, to consider experiments that measure whole-colony health as a response variable rather than worker longevity. Errors. In this review process, the lack of line numbers, or an editable form of the MS, makes it hard to flag such things as unclear phrases. Here are a few mistakes that should be addressed, however: In the abstract, the plant family Solanaceae is misspelled. In the caption for Figure 1, bees received should be rephrased. I believe that there must be a serious error in Dataset 2. Unless I am missing something, the data reported for and ad libitum treatments are identical. This looks like a cut-and-paste error. Column headings in the tables and data sets should be more explanatory. For example, in Table 2, experimental treatments are denoted simply as and Those labels are too cryptic. The "Statistical Analysis" section refers to several "classical...parameters," but these are not picked up in the Results. Reconcile? 