Nowicka and colleagues present a detailed workflow for analyzing high dimensional cytometry data using open source tools within the Bioconductor framework. The paper provides a clear path for analyzing high dimensional cytometry data, with biomarker discovery in mind, starting from raw data, through preprocessing, population discovery, annotation, and differential abundance analysis. Two particular strengths of the proposed approach are i) the decision to use expert-guided merging of cell populations, and ii) the model-based differential abundance analysis of cell populations. The proposed visualization and summaries of the data make i) straightforward to follow and justify, and adequate alternatives are provided and shown to perform equally well in instances where manual merging of many clusters would be cumbersome. The modeling of cell population counts, rather than proportions, is an approach that we strongly support, and the use of logistic regression with mixed effects is a natural approach that is probably insufficiently appreciated by the community at large. That said, some of the methods proposed in the workflow have been in use in the vaccine development field for some time and should be appropriately cited. Specifically, in the section "Visual representation with tSNE", the authors promote coloring individual cells on a tSNE map by expression level, and later still, stratifying by condition (Fig. 11). We point the authors the article by Lin et al. 1 , where a very similar approach, using bioconductor tools, is undertaken to identify and visualize polyfunctional Ag-specific T-cells. The discussion of existing methodological approaches to identify cytometry biomarkers associated with outcome and the discussion of modeling cell counts in favor of modeling of proportions is important, but should also reference existing work in the vaccine development field. Our group has done substantial work in this area, developing count-based models for antigen-specific T-cell response to stimulation[ref-2 , 3 , the latter of which identified a novel biomarker of infection risk in an HIV clinical trial. While these methods do not account for covariates, they are relevant to the discussion since they utilize the Beta-binomial and Dirichlet-Multinomial distributions in a Bayesian formulation to handle over-dispersion due to subject-to-subject variability (an alternative to mixed effects modeling), and warrant mention here. Some additional minor points: the citation of flowCore (p5) should reference the journal publication describing the software 4 , since it is available, rather than the software vignette. Finally, note that flowCore is not used for analysis (p4), which is this context we take to mean clustering or gating, but rather is an infrastructure package that will read, write and transform cytometry data, as well as defining gate objects. The core infrastructure for actually performing data-driven gating in Bioconductor is implemented in packages like flowWorkspace (Finak G, Jiang M, Gottardo R. flowWorkspace: Infrastructure for representing and interacting with the gated cytometry. 2011.) and openCyto 5 . The citations above should be added and updated for completeness and clarity. Other than the above, the article is scientifically sound and the conclusions are justified by the data. 