The authors examined the effect of aging on visual acuity measured using the luminance-modulated and contrast-modulated letter stimuli. The main claim of the paper is that the advantage of binocular viewing (binocular summation) was smaller for the older adults than for the younger adults when the contrast-modulated stimuli were presented. Although their aim is of scientific and clinical interests, the results are not clear enough to draw any strong conclusion. Comments are detailed below. Major Concerns: 1. The main experiment Visual acuity was generally better for binocular viewing than for monocular viewing. The younger adults showed better visual acuity than the older adults. These results are clear but not surprising. Although the interactions among age, stimulus types, and viewing conditions are important here, they were too small to draw any conclusions. The authors reported that there were the significant interactions. However, I guess that they conducted the two-way ANOVAs separately for binocular and monocular viewing. This is not appropriate. The authors should conduct the three-way (age stimulus type viewing condition) ANOVA. This ANOVA yielded no significant interaction. I encourage the authors to increase the number of observers for making meaningful conclusions because there were only 5 observers for each age group. 2. The additional experiment It can be seen from Figure 1 and 3 that visual acuity was comparable between the older adults and the younger adults who viewed the stimuli through a ND filter. This suggests that the reduction in retinal illumination caused the differences between the age groups. Please analyze and discuss this comparison. The authors argued that the age-group differences cannot be attributed to the illumination reduction because there was no significant interaction between stimulus type and retinal illumination. However, only 3 observers participated in the experiment. Their argument is far from convincing. It is necessary to increase the number of observers. Please conduct the three-way ANOVA for this experiment, too. Minor concerns: 1. Please state clearly what statistical analyses were conducted. 2. Typo in page 3. “artcfacts” should be “artifacts”. 