Poultry industry experienced a constant growth during the last decades, generating an increased amount of waste, in the form or feathers, viscera, skin, and dead-on-arrival (Brandelli et al. 2015 1 ). Alternatives for the correct management of such poultry waste have been evaluated. Conversion of feathers into hydrolysates is a possible alternative to produce ingredients for feed, fertilizers, and cultivation media formulations (Daroit and Brandelli 2014 2 ). This topic merits investigation, since the correct management of such waste material has great environmental relevance. In addition, it could represent an added value to the industry. In the current article, feathers were hydrolyzed by chemical methods and the resulting hydrolysates were tested as a peptone source for microbial growth. The utilization of byproducts obtained from abattoir as ingredients for culture media has been previously described. In particular, waste feathers from poultry processing industry have been converted as peptone source for bacterial growth (Taskin and Kurbanoglu, 2011 3 ) and for development of culture media for production of mosquitocidal bacteria (Poopathi and Abidha, 2007 4 ). More detailed studies include the use of feather peptone for microbial production of carotenoids (Taskin et al. 2011 5 ) and protein hydrolysates (Kshetri, 2017 6 ). Therefore, the results presented in this work are rather confirmatory, representing a restricted contribution to the field. Additional data should be included to improve this article. In this present form, the manuscript contains preliminary data and lacks sufficient novelty to be considered for indexing. In addition, a limited number or microorganisms was tested. The selection criteria is not clearly described and should be justified. It seems difficult to take solid conclusions since the microbial species tested are limited and only a single strain of each species was tested. Considering that nutritional requirements can be very variable depending on the microorganism, the inclusion of fastidious microorganisms, lactic acid bacteria, and filamentous fungi should be considered. Some points on Methods section need to be revised as follows: Feathers should be rinsed with abundant water to remove excess detergent before further treatment. Residual detergent could be toxic for some microorganisms. The hydrolysates were air-dried. The reason for not using the oven is unclear since this method was used for blood meal. In this regard, blood meal is mentioned in the Abstract but was not considered in the Discussion. Why was cattle blood used instead of chicken blood? The origin of microbial species tested should be clearly described. Available collection strains should be used in this type of study. The evaluation was performed in liquid medium, supposedly to quantify microbial growth. However, only absorbance at 750 nm (not 600 nm?) was measured, and viable cell counts were not determined. The evaluation of growth on agar plates could give interesting results. Finally, the Results section is redundant, since it essentially consists a repetitive description of growth curves. Presentation of results should be carefully reconsidered. 