In this study, Khan et al explored the relationship between SLE disease activity and mean platelet volume (MPV). After reading this article, I have the following suggestions: I think it would be good if the title were more specific (perhaps including such terms as “platelet size” or “platelet volume”). Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. 1 did not include SLE patients in their study. Our team also published an article on this topic 2 , which is not mentioned in the Introduction, even when it appeared online before that of Yolbas et al 3 . I would like to know if the sampling technique was consecutive or random. I'm inclined to think that consecutive (i.e., non-random) sampling was used. I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples? One merit of this study when comparing it with others is that all the blood samples were analyzed within less than one hour after sampling, since MPV increases over time in EDTA tubes. I think that the bar chart is not ideal to display demographic information. Perhaps one table could be just enough. I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one. When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable 4 . In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients. It would be worthwhile to further discuss the findings of this study by comparing them more specifically with the other studies on this same topic. There are some grammatical errors that would be worth correcting (e.g., an unnecessary semicolon in the second paragraph of the Methods). References 1. Rupa-Matysek J, Gil L, Wojtasińska E, Ciepłuch K, et al.: The relationship between mean platelet volume and thrombosis recurrence in patients diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. Rheumatol Int . 2014; 34 (11): 1599-605 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Delgado-García G, Galarza-Delgado DÁ, Colunga-Pedraza I, Borjas-Almaguer OD, et al.: Mean platelet volume is decreased in adults with active lupus disease. Rev Bras Reumatol Engl Ed . 56 (6): 504-508 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Yolbas S, Yildirim A, Gozel N, Uz B, et al.: Hematological Indices May Be Useful in the Diagnosis of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus and in Determining Disease Activity in Behçet's Disease. Med Princ Pract . 2016; 25 (6): 510-516 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Lew RA, Liang MH, Doros G: Statistical considerations for stopping systemic lupus erythematosus clinical trials earlier. Arthritis Res Ther . 2015; 17 : 345 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: Financial competing interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Non-financial competing interests: Last year our team published an article on this same topic (Rev Bras Reumatol. 2016 Nov-Dec;56[6]:504-8). I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Delgado-García G. Reviewer Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11605.r20146 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v1#referee-response-20146 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 24 Feb 2017 Abidullah Khan , Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan 24 Feb 2017 Author Response We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in ... Continue reading We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in the light of recommendation of our honorable reviewer will add a lot to the science of our article. Please find below, a point-by-point response to the reviewers comments; The title of the article has been modified as suggested. " Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. did not include SLE patients in their study". This has been rephrased. Thank you for identifying this. The article published by your team is very informative and has now been referred to. The sampling technique was consecutive. The sentence has been rewritten. Sorry for the mistake in version 1. "I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples?" We used both the methods. However, we mentioned the WHO sample size calculator only. All the missing info has now been added. Thanks for your appreciation of the merits of our study. Bar chart has now been replaced with a table as suggested. "I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one". Merging the two tables will make the tables look lengthy and possibly confusing. Therefore, we believe that, illustration of the clinical features of the two groups in separate tables will be better read and understood. " When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable." We understand that SLEDAI is an ordinal variable. However, we used the final SLEDAI score rather than the overall conclusion (active/inactive) while running the correlation tests. As the SLEDAI score is continuous and in our case, was normally distributed, we believe running a correlation test was tenable. " In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients." This area has been rephrased. Thank you for pointing it out. In our opinion, discussing the study further, will unnecessary lengthen the text of this article. Every effort has been made to correct the English and grammar. We thank you once more for your efforts. We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in the light of recommendation of our honorable reviewer will add a lot to the science of our article. Please find below, a point-by-point response to the reviewers comments; The title of the article has been modified as suggested. " Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. did not include SLE patients in their study". This has been rephrased. Thank you for identifying this. The article published by your team is very informative and has now been referred to. The sampling technique was consecutive. The sentence has been rewritten. Sorry for the mistake in version 1. "I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples?" We used both the methods. However, we mentioned the WHO sample size calculator only. All the missing info has now been added. Thanks for your appreciation of the merits of our study. Bar chart has now been replaced with a table as suggested. "I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one". Merging the two tables will make the tables look lengthy and possibly confusing. Therefore, we believe that, illustration of the clinical features of the two groups in separate tables will be better read and understood. " When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable." We understand that SLEDAI is an ordinal variable. However, we used the final SLEDAI score rather than the overall conclusion (active/inactive) while running the correlation tests. As the SLEDAI score is continuous and in our case, was normally distributed, we believe running a correlation test was tenable. " In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients." This area has been rephrased. Thank you for pointing it out. In our opinion, discussing the study further, will unnecessary lengthen the text of this article. Every effort has been made to correct the English and grammar. We thank you once more for your efforts. Competing Interests: No competing interests to declare. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 24 Feb 2017 Abidullah Khan , Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan 24 Feb 2017 Author Response We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in ... Continue reading We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in the light of recommendation of our honorable reviewer will add a lot to the science of our article. Please find below, a point-by-point response to the reviewers comments; The title of the article has been modified as suggested. " Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. did not include SLE patients in their study". This has been rephrased. Thank you for identifying this. The article published by your team is very informative and has now been referred to. The sampling technique was consecutive. The sentence has been rewritten. Sorry for the mistake in version 1. "I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples?" We used both the methods. However, we mentioned the WHO sample size calculator only. All the missing info has now been added. Thanks for your appreciation of the merits of our study. Bar chart has now been replaced with a table as suggested. "I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one". Merging the two tables will make the tables look lengthy and possibly confusing. Therefore, we believe that, illustration of the clinical features of the two groups in separate tables will be better read and understood. " When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable." We understand that SLEDAI is an ordinal variable. However, we used the final SLEDAI score rather than the overall conclusion (active/inactive) while running the correlation tests. As the SLEDAI score is continuous and in our case, was normally distributed, we believe running a correlation test was tenable. " In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients." This area has been rephrased. Thank you for pointing it out. In our opinion, discussing the study further, will unnecessary lengthen the text of this article. Every effort has been made to correct the English and grammar. We thank you once more for your efforts. We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in the light of recommendation of our honorable reviewer will add a lot to the science of our article. Please find below, a point-by-point response to the reviewers comments; The title of the article has been modified as suggested. " Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. did not include SLE patients in their study". This has been rephrased. Thank you for identifying this. The article published by your team is very informative and has now been referred to. The sampling technique was consecutive. The sentence has been rewritten. Sorry for the mistake in version 1. "I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples?" We used both the methods. However, we mentioned the WHO sample size calculator only. All the missing info has now been added. Thanks for your appreciation of the merits of our study. Bar chart has now been replaced with a table as suggested. "I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one". Merging the two tables will make the tables look lengthy and possibly confusing. Therefore, we believe that, illustration of the clinical features of the two groups in separate tables will be better read and understood. " When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable." We understand that SLEDAI is an ordinal variable. However, we used the final SLEDAI score rather than the overall conclusion (active/inactive) while running the correlation tests. As the SLEDAI score is continuous and in our case, was normally distributed, we believe running a correlation test was tenable. " In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients." This area has been rephrased. Thank you for pointing it out. In our opinion, discussing the study further, will unnecessary lengthen the text of this article. Every effort has been made to correct the English and grammar. We thank you once more for your efforts. Competing Interests: No competing interests to declare. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 3 VERSION 3 PUBLISHED 10 Feb 2017 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 3 (revision) 16 Mar 17 read Version 2 (revision) 24 Feb 17 read read Version 1 10 Feb 17 read read Guillermo Delgado-Garca , National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico Alina Dima , Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Delgado-García G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 20 Mar 2017 | for Version 3 Guillermo Delgado-Garca , National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico 0 Views copyright © 2017 Delgado-García G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions It has been a pleasure for me to review your valuable work. I applaud again your academic openness and your critical spirit. I want to add the following: 5. This point was appropriately addressed. 8. This point was appropriately addressed. 10. This point was appropriately addressed. 12. This point was addressed. Competing Interests Last year our team published an article on this same topic (Rev Bras Reumatol. 2016 Nov-Dec;56[6]:504-8). No financial competing interests. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Delgado-García G. Peer Review Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11985.r21027) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v3#referee-response-21027 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Dima A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 14 Mar 2017 | for Version 2 Alina Dima , Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark 0 Views copyright © 2017 Dima A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Dear authors, Thank you for all changes made. Best regards, AD Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Dima A. Peer Review Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11885.r20507) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v2#referee-response-20507 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Delgado-García G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 28 Feb 2017 | for Version 2 Guillermo Delgado-Garca , National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico 0 Views copyright © 2017 Delgado-García G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions First of all I want to thank Abidullah Khan (Pakistan) for his punctual answers, and in the same way I take this opportunity to applaud his openness to academic debate. I want to add the following: This point was appropriately addressed. This point was appropriately addressed. This point was appropriately addressed. However, I am not sure if we are falling into a conflict of interest by including an article written by the reviewer under the suggestion of the same reviewer. If possible, I would like to leave this decision to another reviewer in order to avoid any conflict of interest. This point was appropriately addressed. Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). This point was appropriately addressed. I agree with your proposal, so lets leave them in two separate tables. The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. This point was appropriately addressed. I do not know if you are close to the word limit. If this is not the case, perhaps it would also be worth mentioning the studies in adults 2 that yielded results similar to the study in patients with juvenile lupus 3 . This point was appropriately addressed. An additional final comment: 12.The following lines in the Discussion seem particularly bold to me, perhaps it would be worth rephrasing them: a) "Thus, it can be argued that, as an indicator of disease activity in patients with SLE, MPV was as effective as both ESR and SLEDAI-2000". b) "Therefore, we recommend MPV as a global marker of disease activity in patients with SLE". References 1. Lew RA, Liang MH, Doros G: Statistical considerations for stopping systemic lupus erythematosus clinical trials earlier. Arthritis Res Ther . 2015; 17 : 345 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Sarkar RN, Bhattacharya K, Banerjee M: Mean platelet volume as an indicator of disease activity in systemic lupus erythematosus. J Assoc Physicians India . 2016; 64 (1): 68-69 PubMed Abstract 3. Yavuz S, Ece A: Mean platelet volume as an indicator of disease activity in juvenile SLE. Clin Rheumatol . 2014; 33 (5): 637-41 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests Last year our team published an article on this same topic (Rev Bras Reumatol. 2016 Nov-Dec;56[6]:504-8). No financial competing interests. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 16 Mar 2017 Abidullah Khan, Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. 5: Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). Reply: This has been amended as advised. 8: The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. Reply: Spearman's rho has been used to assess any relationship of MPV and ESR with SLEDAI. However, the relation of MPV with ESR has been assessed through Pearson's correlation test. 10: The Indian study has now been referred to. The study by Yavuz S et al had already been cited. Additional comments: The final two sentences pointed to (a and b), have been rephrased. I hope it works this time. Thanks again. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Delgado-García G. Peer Review Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11885.r20506) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v2#referee-response-20506 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Dima A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 17 Feb 2017 | for Version 1 Alina Dima , Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark 0 Views copyright © 2017 Dima A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Title : I don’t find the term “monitoring” appropriate as it is presented a cross-sectional study with only one MPV determination and I so think that the use of assessment or determination could be tried. Also the term MPV (as possible marker of SLE disease activity) should be included in title. Abstract : First two phrases of the abstract are too general, not directly related to this article subject. I think that for the background the idea MPV – activity – Inflammation – SLE is enough. In the method we understand that 25 patients with active vs. 25 inactive were chosen ... it should be clear noted; e.g. cross-sectional, prospective, successively inclusion and then how the two subgroups were defined. I don’t think that the details of statistic should appear in the abstract - methods, maybe a more detailed conclusion. Introduction : As for the abstract, I find the first two paragraphs are too general, not directly related to the article topic. For the classification criteria, instead of classification criteria up-dated ACR 1997 (that should be cited properly) I would propose the use of SLICC 2012 or both criteria sets; but anyway, the diagnosis would be the same as the last criteria set is more sensitive. Methods/ Results : There are many exclusion criteria presented, maybe there could be some words in introduction or discussion about these factors influence on MPV (as it was discussed for thrombocytopenia) and reasons of exclusion. I understand from methods that it was a cross-sectional study with random, consecutive inclusion and then the lot was split in two groups according to SLE disease activity (assessed by SLEDAI). How was the SLEDAI cut-off of 5 points determined? This cut-off appears in previous published research, it is the mean value (as I understand all variables turned out to be parametric), or the group was split in two groups of similar patients number? And then, the bivariate correlations were realized only in the group with active SLE, so the results are applicable only in this subgroup of patients. I would propose a logistic regression for the entire lot (50 patients), with MPV, ESR (and adjusted for age and gender) as predictors for high SLEDAI. However, the degree of correlation obtained is very high and so it sustains the research conclusion. Discussion : the phrase “SLEDAI was as effective as both ESR and MPV” should be written differently (MPV was correlated with/ is an effective marker of ...) as the research is about MPV, disease activity was assessed by SLEDAI and ESR was noted as parameter known to correlates with disease activity. In the third paragraph, I don’t find a relation between the discussion on CRP and the same paragraph last phrase. Of course, data on ESR usefulness as marker of SLE disease activity should be discussed in order to understand why SLEDAI and ESR as standard. And maybe also data on ESR and MPV in lupus or other diseases, if there are. Conclusion : I think that the first phrase of conclusion should be reformulated. The term “monitor” I already discussed; “higher disease will reduce MPV” could be more specific; and “vice versa” I’m not sure that this can be concluded as the study does not discuss distinctly the relation between higher MPV with lower activity in the subgroup of inactive lupus patients (of course, it looks logical). I think also that the present last phrase of conclusion should be ended “ sensitivity and specificity for ...” and in active SLE, without APS ... Competing Interests An article in which I am co-author was cited in the present research. No financial competing interests. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 24 Feb 2017 Abidullah Khan, Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan We are really grateful to Alina Dima for her invaluable comments on our article. Please find below a point-wise response to the comments. Title : "I don’t find the term “monitoring” appropriate as it is presented a cross-sectional study with only one MPV determination and I so think that the use of assessment or determination could be tried. Also the term MPV (as possible marker of SLE disease activity) should be included in title." Reply: This suggestion has been incorporated. Abstract : "First two phrases of the abstract are too general, not directly related to this article subject. I think that for the background the idea MPV – activity – Inflammation – SLE is enough. In the method we understand that 25 patients with active vs. 25 inactive were chosen ... it should be clear noted; e.g. cross-sectional, prospective, successively inclusion and then how the two subgroups were defined. I don’t think that the details of statistic should appear in the abstract - methods, maybe a more detailed conclusion." Reply: Abstract has been re-phrased as suggested. However, we believe that, the statistics should appear in the abstract, as they give an overall idea to the researcher of what we did and what s/he may expect to find in the results? Introduction : As for the abstract, I find the first two paragraphs are too general, not directly related to the article topic. For the classification criteria, instead of classification criteria up-dated ACR 1997 (that should be cited properly) I would propose the use of SLICC 2012 or both criteria sets; but anyway, the diagnosis would be the same as the last criteria set is more sensitive. Reply: We have intentionally left the first two paragraphs as general looking. This is for the purpose of education of the young researchers and to give an impression as, how does SLE behave normally ? Methods/ Results : There are many exclusion criteria presented, maybe there could be some words in introduction or discussion about these factors influence on MPV (as it was discussed for thrombocytopenia) and reasons of exclusion. Reply: Sentence has now been added regarding the influence of the set exclusion criteria on MPV and the study results. I understand from methods that it was a cross-sectional study with random, consecutive inclusion and then the lot was split in two groups according to SLE disease activity (assessed by SLEDAI). How was the SLEDAI cut-off of 5 points determined? This cut-off appears in previous published research, it is the mean value (as I understand all variables turned out to be parametric), or the group was split in two groups of similar patients number? And then, the bivariate correlations were realized only in the group with active SLE, so the results are applicable only in this subgroup of patients. I would propose a logistic regression for the entire lot (50 patients), with MPV, ESR (and adjusted for age and gender) as predictors for high SLEDAI. However, the degree of correlation obtained is very high and so it sustains the research conclusion. Reply: The recommended changes have been made. Discussion : the phrase “SLEDAI was as effective as both ESR and MPV” should be written differently (MPV was correlated with/ is an effective marker of ...) as the research is about MPV, disease activity was assessed by SLEDAI and ESR was noted as parameter known to correlates with disease activity. In the third paragraph, I don’t find a relation between the discussion on CRP and the same paragraph last phrase. Of course, data on ESR usefulness as marker of SLE disease activity should be discussed in order to understand why SLEDAI and ESR as standard. And maybe also data on ESR and MPV in lupus or other diseases, if there are. Reply: Discussion has been modified at points suggested by the respectable reviewer. Conclusion : I think that the first phrase of conclusion should be reformulated. The term “monitor” I already discussed; “higher disease will reduce MPV” could be more specific; and “vice versa” I’m not sure that this can be concluded as the study does not discuss distinctly the relation between higher MPV with lower activity in the subgroup of inactive lupus patients (of course, it looks logical). I think also that the present last phrase of conclusion should be ended “ sensitivity and specificity for ...” and in active SLE, without APS ... Reply: The conclusion has been amended as recommended by the reviewer. Moreover, the term 'vice versa' has been removed. Thank you once more for your time and precious comments. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests to declare. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Dima A. Peer Review Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11605.r20320) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v1#referee-response-20320 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Delgado-García G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 13 Feb 2017 | for Version 1 Guillermo Delgado-Garca , National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Mexico City, Mexico 0 Views copyright © 2017 Delgado-García G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In this study, Khan et al explored the relationship between SLE disease activity and mean platelet volume (MPV). After reading this article, I have the following suggestions: I think it would be good if the title were more specific (perhaps including such terms as “platelet size” or “platelet volume”). Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. 1 did not include SLE patients in their study. Our team also published an article on this topic 2 , which is not mentioned in the Introduction, even when it appeared online before that of Yolbas et al 3 . I would like to know if the sampling technique was consecutive or random. I'm inclined to think that consecutive (i.e., non-random) sampling was used. I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples? One merit of this study when comparing it with others is that all the blood samples were analyzed within less than one hour after sampling, since MPV increases over time in EDTA tubes. I think that the bar chart is not ideal to display demographic information. Perhaps one table could be just enough. I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one. When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable 4 . In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients. It would be worthwhile to further discuss the findings of this study by comparing them more specifically with the other studies on this same topic. There are some grammatical errors that would be worth correcting (e.g., an unnecessary semicolon in the second paragraph of the Methods). References 1. Rupa-Matysek J, Gil L, Wojtasińska E, Ciepłuch K, et al.: The relationship between mean platelet volume and thrombosis recurrence in patients diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. Rheumatol Int . 2014; 34 (11): 1599-605 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Delgado-García G, Galarza-Delgado DÁ, Colunga-Pedraza I, Borjas-Almaguer OD, et al.: Mean platelet volume is decreased in adults with active lupus disease. Rev Bras Reumatol Engl Ed . 56 (6): 504-508 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Yolbas S, Yildirim A, Gozel N, Uz B, et al.: Hematological Indices May Be Useful in the Diagnosis of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus and in Determining Disease Activity in Behçet's Disease. Med Princ Pract . 2016; 25 (6): 510-516 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Lew RA, Liang MH, Doros G: Statistical considerations for stopping systemic lupus erythematosus clinical trials earlier. Arthritis Res Ther . 2015; 17 : 345 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests Financial competing interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Non-financial competing interests: Last year our team published an article on this same topic (Rev Bras Reumatol. 2016 Nov-Dec;56[6]:504-8). I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 24 Feb 2017 Abidullah Khan, Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan We thank Guillermo Delgado-Garcia from Mexico for reading our manuscript thoroughly and for pin-pointing various discrepancies. We have now corrected the shortcomings and we believe that, the changes made in the light of recommendation of our honorable reviewer will add a lot to the science of our article. Please find below, a point-by-point response to the reviewers comments; The title of the article has been modified as suggested. " Contrary to what is mentioned in the last paragraph of the Introduction, Rupa-Matysek et al. did not include SLE patients in their study". This has been rephrased. Thank you for identifying this. The article published by your team is very informative and has now been referred to. The sampling technique was consecutive. The sentence has been rewritten. Sorry for the mistake in version 1. "I'm not sure if this STEPS Sample Size Calculator was the ideal one to estimate the sample size in the present study. I would like to know what other values were used in this calculation (level of confidence measure, MOE, baseline levels of the indicators, Deff, etc). I would also like to know which outcome was used to estimate the sample size. MPV? If so, why was not used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples?" We used both the methods. However, we mentioned the WHO sample size calculator only. All the missing info has now been added. Thanks for your appreciation of the merits of our study. Bar chart has now been replaced with a table as suggested. "I suggest the first two tables could be merged into one". Merging the two tables will make the tables look lengthy and possibly confusing. Therefore, we believe that, illustration of the clinical features of the two groups in separate tables will be better read and understood. " When calculating the correlations it is important to remember that the SLEDAI is an ordinal variable." We understand that SLEDAI is an ordinal variable. However, we used the final SLEDAI score rather than the overall conclusion (active/inactive) while running the correlation tests. As the SLEDAI score is continuous and in our case, was normally distributed, we believe running a correlation test was tenable. " In the discussion, when addressing the issue of pathophysiological mechanisms that could explain the decrease in MPV, two articles are cited. However, contrary to what is mentioned, neither of these articles deals with SLE patients." This area has been rephrased. Thank you for pointing it out. In our opinion, discussing the study further, will unnecessary lengthen the text of this article. Every effort has been made to correct the English and grammar. We thank you once more for your efforts. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests to declare. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Delgado-García G. Peer Review Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11605.r20146) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v1#referee-response-20146 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Click here to access the data. The problem Spreadsheet data files may not format correctly if your computer is using different default delimiters (symbols used to separate values into separate cells) - a spreadsheet created in one region is sometimes misinterpreted by computers in other regions. You can change the regional settings on your computer so that the spreadsheet can be interpreted correctly. How to fix it Save downloaded CSV file Open spreadsheet program (e.g. Excel) Click the tab at the top Click the From text icon (top left) Browse for downloaded CSV file, click Ensure radio button is selected, click Check one of the appropriate delimiter checkboxes (you can visualize the formatting by looking at the data preview below these options) Click Downloaded data do not display as expected? Download the data (1.70KB) Dataset citation: Khan A, Haider I, Ayub M and Khan S. Dataset 1 in: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus. F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 (https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10763.d151064) Close Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v3" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v3&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v3" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Khan A et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v3/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126",
 templates : {
 twitter : "Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of \u00A0disease activity.... Khan A et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v3"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of \u00A0disease activity and severity in lupus", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Research Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of \u00A0disease activity and severity in lupus", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/10763/11985")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "11985");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "20320": 16,
 "21027": 4,
 "21028": 0,
 "20620": 0,
 "20621": 0,
 "20622": 0,
 "20623": 0,
 "20624": 0,
 "20145": 0,
 "20625": 0,
 "20146": 22,
 "20147": 0,
 "20148": 0,
 "20149": 0,
 "20150": 0,
 "20151": 0,
 "20152": 0,
 "20153": 0,
 "20154": 0,
 "20506": 13,
 "20507": 7,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "70b160a1-1b22-418c-b193-dfa5fe387d5e";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 