The nonsense-mediated mRNA decay pathway is found throughout eukaryotes, where it performs important quality control and regulatory functions. How the pathway originally emerged and has subsequently adapted to diverse eukaryotic transcriptomes is an important but poorly understood question. This manuscript represents a helpful summary of the evidence for compositionally- and mechanistically-distinct NMD pathways in diverse eukaryotes and raises interesting questions that deserve future study. Major points: The review raises the question of how RNA decay machinery is recruited to NMD substrate mRNAs in organisms that have lost SMG1. Work from yeast and human cells give two possible answers to this question. First, the Jacobson and Parker labs have presented evidence that budding yeast UPF1 directly interacts with components of the decapping complex, enabling SMG1- and SMG6-independent decay 1 , 2 . Second, the Conti and Muhlemann groups have 3 , 4 shown that SMG6 can interact with UPF1 in a phosphorylation-independent manner. Their data suggest that UPF1 phosphorylation may be dispensable for SMG6 recruitment but may contribute to activation of its endonucleolytic activity, raising the possibility that a SMG-1 independent pathway could rely on phosphorylation-independent SMG6-UPF1 interactions coupled with a distinct mechanism for activation of SMG6. Figure 3: The schematics in the figure suggest that there is a universal step of mRNP remodeling that involves ribosome displacement from target mRNAs prior to initiation of decay, but it is not clear that this is the case. Previous work from the Baker lab has indicated that budding yeast NMD can initiate on polysome-bound mRNAs, rather than those stripped of ribosomes 5 . In addition, this figure and Figure 1 should acknowledge that there is evidence that “classical” NMD can also proceed through deadenylation, decapping, and exonucleolytic decay, not just SMG6-mediated cleavage. For other organisms, “cleavage” implies an endonucleolytic step, which in organisms lacking SMG6 is not known to occur. As referenced above, yeast NMD proceeds through decapping, and this should be made clear in the figure. It would be helpful to note that in Drosophila, a much more significant role for SMG1 is uncovered in SMG5 mutants 6 . This is consistent with the idea that organisms such as Drosophila have developed redundant pathways for NMD. However, this also means that the extent to which “the dependence on SMG1 is not always clear” may be overstated. The fact that SMG1 has been maintained in this organism and can function in at least some contexts should carry greater weight than the failure to observe a strong phenotype in the limited experimental contexts in which it has been examined. Page 6, second paragraph: It is somewhat misleading to state that “transcriptome-wide studies find so few long 3’UTR transcripts that are targeted to NMD.” It is true that there have been differing reports of the extent to which 3’UTR length correlates with decay susceptibility transcriptome-wide, but this is not the same as saying that these studies did not find evidence that substantial numbers of long 3’UTR-containing transcripts are subject to NMD. In addition, it is important to recognize that the Lindeboom et al. study cited here examined apparent NMD susceptibility of mRNAs with nonsense mutations, not the scope of long 3’UTR-mediated decay among normal transcripts 7 . Page 6, second paragraph, continued: The poly-A binding protein-centric model and the UPF1 length-sensing model are not necessarily exclusive. It has been reported that Pab1 and poly-A tails are dispensable for accurate NMD target discrimination in yeast 8 , but it is possible that UPF1 binding contributes to competition between poly-A binding protein and NMD factors for binding to release factors at the terminating ribosome. Another emerging possibility is that PABP antagonizes UPF1 binding to 3’UTRs, as proposed by Lee et al. 9 . Minor points: It would be helpful to the reader to reference recent evidence that PNRC2 may function in general decapping but contribute minimally to NMD in vertebrates 10 . Page 2, second paragraph: Since UPF2 and UPF3 were identified and initially characterized in yeast, in which UPF1 phosphorylation is not known to play a key role in decay, the basis for the statement that “initially, NMD factors were defined by their role in the phosphorylation of UPF1” is unclear. Page 2, first paragraph: The Maquat et al., 1981 paper was not based on a “mutant screen” but instead observations in human genetic disease 11 . Figure 1 implies that the roles of UPF2 and UPF3 are dependent on the EJC, but this is not the case — these proteins have been found to be required for decay of NMD substrates lacking 3’UTR introns 12 , 13 . At several points, it is not clear whether the authors use the nomenclature 'SMG5-7' to refer to SMG5, 6, and 7, or just SMG5 and 7, as is the more standard usage. For example, on Page 3, first paragraph, it should be made clear that SMG6 does not function in “recruiting the degradation machinery” but is itself an endonuclease. Page 5, fifth paragraph. It is possible that other PIKK-type kinases other than ATM and ATR are re-purposed to phosphorylate UPF1. Discussion of the Tetrahymena data should acknowledge that at this point the evidence for a role for exon junctions is correlative and remains to be mechanistically investigated. This is an important caveat to the classification system offered by the author 14 . Page 6, third paragraph: More recent investigations of yeast NMD have not uncovered evidence for a downstream sequence element that contributes significantly to decay target discrimination 8 , 15 . 