The study by Zelmer et al. evaluates in different mouse genetic backgrounds whether the ratio of monocytes/macrophages vs T lymphocytes could affect BCG-induced protection. This study results are highly interesting as it evaluates in an animal model data derived from a previous vaccine efficacy trial. In addition, it highlights a critical question in the field of vaccine evaluation in mice, which is the genetic heterogeneity among inbred mouse strains. This issue is of particular importance when we are assessing vaccines which aim to be moved to humans. During the reading of the manuscript I have found some minor questions that I think should be amended to improve the quality of the study. 1. I think that the gating criteria used to enclose the monocyte/macrophage population (CD11b + CD11c int cells) is excluding myeloid populations that could be highly informative for the outcome of the study. This is particularly important in the case of the lungs, where nave alveolar macrophages have a phenotype CD11b int CD11c + . Alveolar macrophages represent a first-line defense against respiratory pathogens, and therefore results could be very informative to know which is the status of these cells in the different strains used. More even if we consider that authors compare directly data from BCG-induced protection with the ML ratio in the lungs (Figure 2B). 2. I suggest to make the comparison between ML ratio and protection using a linear regression, so statistical significance of the shown data could be assessed. 3. I find highly interesting the data showing the differences in BCG persistence among the four strains, more even considering the influence of vaccine persistence in protective efficacy. This result evidences that live vaccine persistence does not only depends on the vaccine itself, but also on the host, and this is a question that should be considered in the future to study novel tuberculosis vaccines. My question is whether the authors could provide some data of BCG persistence in the local draining lymph nodes (in addition to lungs and spleen), as they are the primary sites of BCG biodistribution following subcutaneous/intradermal vaccination. 