We thank the authors for their revised version. While the proposed hypothesis is of merit, we believe the analyses are not appropriate to assess it due to the inherent biases of an ecologic analysis. We would suggest reframing the analysis to focus on data from Belgium, as the authors have access to the raw data and could possibly compare between MSM and heterosexuals (assuming differential intensity of GC screening) with these data. We also believe some of our previous comments were not adequately addressed: Comment 2 (comparing MSM and heterosexual men) We disagree; there are marked differences between heterosexual men and women in the GRASP reports in respect to azithromycin resistance. In recent years, azithromycin resistance has been very similar in MSM and heterosexual men, which does not support your hypothesis. Comment 6 (UK screening guideline update in 2010 leading to an upturn in screening in MSM with a decline in cephalosporin resistance) As mentioned previously*, the upturn in GC screening coincided with a rapid decline in cephalosporin resistance – this also does not support your hypothesis. * In the UK, gonorrhoea screening guidelines for MSM attending specialist sexual health services were updated in 2010, and this has led to an increase in gonorrhoea tests since then. This testing trend should be considered when interpreting these findings, as the level of testing prior to 2010 would be much lower than those of more recent years. Furthermore, the upturn in screening coincided with a rapid decline in cephalosporin resistance. EMIS is an excellent source of survey data from a community sample but, as you acknowledge, there may be some sampling bias between countries. Are there STI surveillance data from Belgium to indicate how many MSM are tested for GC and, if not, can we confidently conclude that MSM are more likely to be screened for GC in the UK vs. Belgium? Also, in reference to your response: we would still argue that 6% and 8.3% from the Belgium national data is still a lot higher than the 1.7% and 0.4% cefixime resistance data from GRASP. In the UK, AMR is often imported from Asia and has spread and developed in MSM, but has not necessarily first emerged in MSM. The analyses of GRASP data are based on numbers extrapolated from figures using an online tool; has this tool been validated? Another limitation is the lack of data from Belgium in 2009/10 as we feel a similar shift in MICs in men would have been observed due to the international spread of ST1407. While sexual orientation data isn’t available, could you examine gender differences instead? The GRASP ethics statement is still incorrect. 