This contribution is a wide-ranging theory of how speech evolved in humans, which incorporates the dorsal and ventral auditory processing streams, but primarily focused on the auditory dorsal stream. There are several large leaps in the proposed trajectory for language evolution such as, eventually, individuals were capable of inventing new words and offspring were capable of inquiring about objects in their environment and learning their names via mimicry. While the first part of the overall proposed theory is well supported, these latter stages are under-supported by current knowledge, particularly when moving to discussing individuals that became capable of enunciating novel calls (e.g., last paragraph of introduction); (some publications that may be helpful, comment by Meguerditchian et al. , 2014 ; original article, Ackermann et al. , 2014 ). The steps proposed for inventing new words and inquiring about objects are likely to require a large number of processes and the theory does not specify what those steps might be. Overall, Polivas theory as set forth does generate some interesting, testable, hypotheses as demonstrated in section 9, and the leaps in the logical flow do not negate these as the hypotheses are more closely related to the current knowledge base. As this is a theory of From where to what, missing for me was a better description of how the dorsal and ventral streams might interact in this theory. Calls still need to be as auditory objects and imaging and recording studies have indicated the ventral stream does process this type of information. The ventral stream was given much less prominence and described in the appendix. It would be nice to include a paragraph or two on how the two systems may work together or how the ventral stream object identification comes to participate or interact with word formation and questions about objects. In the first paragraph of the introduction, curiosity toward the unknown may be related to non-human primates tendency to pick novel objects from known objects. This is also true in many lower animals. The development of curiosity of objects that are absent from our environment as Poliva suggests must also be related to memory development. One must be able to remember that objects exist and have detailed memories in order to determine if an object is indeed missing. There are aspects of work by Mishkin and colleagues suggesting that the lack of robust, or expansive, long-term auditory memory may relate to the absence of complex communication systems in non-human primates, such as rhesus macaques. Clearly, visual memory is much more extensive and robust than auditory memory and the sign language that other non-human primates have demonstrated may be related to the robust nature of visual memory. The issue of memory mechanisms necessary for identifying that auditory objects are indeed missing from the environment, and how these may differ and interact between auditory and visual systems, should at least be mentioned in passing.