In this paper, McCoy et al. present novel results regarding the contribution of ENTPD3 to nucleotide hydrolysis in primary sensory neurons and the spinal cord. Immunohistochemical analysis of ENTPD3 distribution using a commercial antibody was highly similar to a previous report (full disclosure, from this reviewers laboratory) cited in the paper; selectivity of the antibody was effectively confirmed using tissue from knockout mice generated by the authors. The study is well-executed and the figures are outstanding. The key findings were generated through functional analysis of the knockout mice, including nucleotidase histochemistry, extensive behavioral analysis of nociceptive and non-nociceptive thresholds in nave and inflamed mice, and fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV), an innovative method for measuring adenosine levels in situ in spinal cord slices. These studies found that ENTPD3 was dispensible for nucleotide hydrolysis, and all measured behavioral variables were unaltered in knockout mice, with the exception of a reduction in b-alanine-mediated itch behavior. The results suggest the possibility that additional ectonucleotidase(s) are co-expressed with ENTPD3 that are sufficient for normal nucleotide triphosphate/diphosphate hydrolysis, similar to the situation described by these authors for the ectonucleotidases that generate adenosine from AMP. The histological results support the conclusion that ENTPD3 is in position to impact both noxious and non-noxious somosensory transduction and transmission, but underscore that the regulation of somatosensory purinergic signaling is complex and likely to be regulated by multiple enzymes acting in tandem. This is a significant finding for the pain field, because ENTPD3 is the only ectonucleotidase identified in primary sensory neurons that regulates the availability of extracellular ATP and UTP, which have been extensively implicated in nociceptive signaling as agonists for P2X and P2Y receptors. A key point not fully addressed here is whether knockout of ENTPD3 results in upregulation of other NTPDases in DRG neurons and/or dorsal horn, which could provide an explanation for the mild knockout phenotype. In particular, analysis of neuronal mRNA/ protein levels and distribution for ENTPD1, 2 and 8 in ENTPD3 knockout mice would increase the impact of the findings reported here. An intriguing possibility is that the alternate enzymes responsible are not members of the ENTPD family. The authors do demonstrate that the ENTPD1 inhibitor ARL67156 did not alter the distribution of enzyme histochemical staining in knockout tissue compared to WT, but did eliminate microglial labeling in both genotypes. One question that the authors might want to address in the discussion is how to evaluate whether FSCV is capable of resolving neuronal ENTPD3 activity in the dorsal horn when the neurons are surrounded by microglia expressing ENTPD1 (the active site of these enzymes is extracellular). As the authors suggest, further analysis in mice with multiple ENTPD gene deletions may be informative. However, the substantial behavioral evidence indicates that loss of ENTPD3 is not critical for normal sensory processing.