In this manuscript, the authors have developed a new computational method to reduce technical biases that result from dropout events in single-cell mRNA sequencing experiments, a problem that particularly affects genes that are expressed at low levels. While single-cell mRNA sequencing has revolutionized our understanding of several biological systems in the last few years, the relatively low efficiency of amplifying small quantities of mRNA from a single cell results in dropout events that bias downstream analysis. To reduce this technical bias, the authors use information from protein-protein interaction maps to smoothen transcript counts across the entire dataset. Several groups are working on imputation based methods in single-cell mRNA-seq, and this manuscript presents an exciting approach to reduce technical noise. It would be helpful if the authors could clarify and discuss the points below in greater detail: 1. Does the smoothening process bias against genes or gene networks that are not well represented in the protein-protein interaction network? One of the striking features of sc mRNA-seq is that it can identify the expression of specific genes that were previously not associated with a particular cell-type. Would this be impacted by netSmooth and can the authors provide examples from the datasets they have analyzed that netSmooth still retains these observations? 2. There are several sc mRNA-seq methods (for example, CEL-Seq, Smart-Seq etc.) that are currently used by different labs. These methods have different features, such as, full-length transcripts or 3’ end sequencing, and the possibility of employing unique molecule identifiers. How do the 3 computational methods compared in this manuscript work on different experimental techniques? 3. For most of the example datasets used in this manuscript, scImpute shows very similar performance to netSmooth on all 3 metrics used to compare the methods. Can the authors discuss how these two methods, while using different approaches, achieve similar performance. Are there conditions/datasets where one method would perform better than the other? 4. The proportion of cells in robust clusters seems to be very sensitive to the choice of the free parameter in netSmooth (Figure 12). Further, in contrast to a statement in the text (last paragraph on page 10), the value of the free parameter that gives the highest proportion of cells in robust clusters does not correspond to the highest median cluster purity in the glioblastoma dataset. This high sensitivity to alpha can potentially pose a challenge. Can the authors comment on this? Could the authors propose alternate strategies for picking the optimal alpha value. 