In the present molecular dynamics simulation study, the authors are intended to study ion-pair formation of sodium and potassium ions with amino acid glycine. The manuscript is well written. However, major revision of the manuscript along the lines mentioned below is required before its publication. Specific points are as follows: The authors have used Na+ Force Field parameters from Ref. 25, in which (most probably) the interaction parameters for ions have been calculated from free energy calculation in SPC water. However, in the present case the authors have used TIP3P water. Isn’t it right to use the same water model as the one used for deriving the parameters? The motivation of the present study is to compare ion-pair formation of an amino acid carboxylate with Na+ and K+ ions in the physiological condition. What is the concentration of sodium or potassium ion in the physiological condition? Are the simulations performed under the same concentration? Rather than considering two ions in two separate simulations, it is important to consider a mixture of two ions in a single simulation and compare relative affinity of these two ions towards the amino acid. Why is glycine considered? It is already shown (Ref 6) that carboxylic acid groups of aspartate and glutamate are playing the most important role in determining the interaction of a protein with these ions. Therefore, choice of glycine instead of the above mentioned amino acids needs to be justified. I feel in order to get a trend, the author should take more than one amino acids in separate simulation and observe if the trend is general. I did not understand the conditions for which Figs. 2(A) and (B) (or (C) and (D) are shown. Please specify it in figure caption as well as in main text. It is essential to find out the residence time of each of the ions and compare them. Why in case of carbon-ion g(r) the first peak splits into two, but not in case of oxygen-ion g(r)? Trajectory snapshot as presented in Fig. 3 has no meaning in a finite temperature MD simulation run. Instead, please provide either average values of these distances or their time dependent behavior. The authors have mentioned that X-Ray absorption data account for (m) coordination state only. However the present simulation shows both m and l states. Rationalize why the present result is different from the experimental result? The authors have written “Parameters for cations were obtained from 25, for chloride from 26”. Please write Ref. 25 in place of 25 and Ref. 26 in place of 26. 