This is yet again a good summary of the most relevant TS literature published in the past year (2018). The text is useful for researchers and clinicians in the TS and related fields, and in my opinion constitutes a nice educational piece. The included papers are overall well chosen and summarised. I only have a few minor comments, listed below. The authors have included in their review the paper by Wu et al . (2018) 1 , which refers to the clinical characteristics and treatment outcomes of children and adolescents with OCD with and without religious symptoms. This article concludes that the presence of religious symptoms is not associated with OCD treatment outcomes. Based on this, the authors of the current review affirm that this suggests that scrupulosity and similar symptoms in children with TS can be expected to improve just as much as other OCD symptoms with appropriate treatment. While this may be true, I think this conclusion is long stretched based on the Wu et al . (2018) data, which actually does not refer to TS or tics at all. I therefore suggest to remove this paper from the review. When the authors mention the treatment study by Andrn et al . (2019) 2 , I think it is important to mention that the percentages in the parenthesis in the sentence “Patients improved substantially (mean 75% with ERP, 55% with HRT)” actually refer to treatment responders, and not the percentage of patients that simply improved. Last sentence of the “Etiology” section: “the association is interesting and deserves follow-up”. This reads weird to me and I suggest to change the wording to “deserves to be further explored” or similar. Please check the manuscript for typos; there are quite a few. Some of them are listed below: “Phenomenology and natural history” section; “Sensory phenomena and premonitory urges”, third paragraph: the verb is missing in the sentence “alterations in olfactory phenomena ARE likely to occur…” “Phenomenology and natural history” section; “Other”, second paragraph: “in A French university clinic” instead of “in French university clinic.” “Pathophysiology” section; “Neuroimaging studies”, third paragraph: write “functional” in lower case. “Treatment” section; “Neurosurgery”: a registry for deep brain stimulation (DBS) FOR Tourette syndrome…” Note that the acronym ASD appears before it is spelled out, two paragraphs later (page 3). 