 In the Methods section: the author may consider providing reference of BHIS data from any previous published article. If no article published using this dataset, then the authors should be explaining the entire dataset in separate heading under the Methods section. It would be good and understandable if authors consider providing a flow chart of their population selection by strata. In the data collection and interview section: The authors mentioned that “Structured questionnaires were used to identify drowning death, and drowning related data was extracted for further analysis.” It is not clear how the authors confirmed that the reason of the death was due to drowning. However, it is possible that the primary respondents could confirm the death but it does not make a strong conclusion of the reason behind the death. Potential question could raise “how the primary respondents know that it was not suicide?”. Another clarification is required that in Bangladesh mostly the rural people - adults knows how to swim, particularly those live near the river bank. And also, those have ponds and/or shared ponds, they take baths and use for daily primary source of water for their household use. The author should mention if they use verbal autopsy in this case. If not, please mention it in the limitation. In the swimming ability skill - how did the authors collected that information. Is that the primary respondents responded on the died person? It's hard to believe that the person who knows how to swim died due to drowning? Please clarify in the discussion part. And also, it creates more confusion when the death occurs in the natural water bodies. What does the authors mean by natural water bodies? It would be also useful if the authors consider providing a brief context of Bangladeshi population using water bodies for their daily HH work. Map of Bangladesh water bodies would help other nationals to understand the context of natural water distribution of Bangladesh. It could make more sense. The authors failed to mention their limitation and strength of the study. I believe there are good number of limitation which authors skipped. Furthermore, discussion part was poorly written and the authors failed to discuss their finding elaborately in this part 