The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus aureus LytSR two-component system. Previous studies have identified two signals that LytSR responds to: dissipation of membrane potential and excess glucose. Using purified protein, the authors characterize the kinetics of the autophosphorylation of LytS and the phosphorylation of LytR by LytS and acetyl-phosphate. The findings include a higher first-order rate constant for the phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl-phosphate as compared to its cognate kinase, LytS. In addition, the first-order rate constant of LytS autophosphorylation indicates a slow reaction as compared to other kinases. It was also demonstrated that LytR forms a dimer once phosphorylated, that LytS has phosphatase activity which is much more efficient that the auto-dephosphorylation of LytR. The results of the paper confirm and add greater insight into the molecular signaling mechanism of LytSR as previously described by Lehman et al , 2015. Overall, manuscript is well written and the experiments nicely executed. However, as can be seen from the comments below, the primary concern is that the authors seemed to have completely missed the work of Lehman et al, 2015, which describes much of what is presented in the current manuscript. Thus, the authors should include references to this work as indicated below. Abstract The closing statement of the abstract seems to be a bit overstated as this is not the “first time” these results have been generated. Indeed, very similar results were presented by Lehman et al 2015 that acetyl-phosphate is responsible for the LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. In fact, the Lehman et al paper goes further using in vivo studies of mutants affecting acetyl-phosphate levels to show that under conditions of excess glucose acetyl-phosphate contributes to the signaling of LytSR. Introduction Paragraph 3: The authors state “both operons were also shown to be induced by carbohydrate metabolism and proposed to be regulated through a CidR-dependent signaling pathway 20 .” This is an inaccurate reference, as cidABC has only been shown to be regulated by CidR, whereas lrgAB expression is dependent on LytSR. Paragraph 3: The authors should include a reference to the Lehman et al 2015 paper, which followed up the work performed by Sharma et al (from the same lab). As stated above, the Lehman et al 2015 paper demonstrated that acetyl-phosphate does influence LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. Thus, the statement that the “molecular basis for this observation remains obscure” (referring to the Sharma et al. paper) is misleading. Paragraph 4: The authors state “Our study shows that LytSR is capable of mediating signaling either through LytS in response to cell membrane electrical potential or through LytR in response to carbohydrate metabolism.” This is overstated as there were no experiments to demonstrate this conclusion. Results Paragraph 2: It was published by Brunskill and Bayles 1996 that Asp-53 is the likely site of LytR phosphorylation. This observation was confirmed in Lehman et al . 2015. Discussion Paragraph 1: LytR does not regulate the cidABC operon as stated. Paragraphs 2 and 5: See Lehman et al 2015 which characterized the LytSR signal transduction pathway in vitro and in vivo . References 1. Lehman MK, Bose JL, Sharma-Kuinkel BK, Moormeier DE, et al.: Identification of the amino acids essential for LytSR-mediated signal transduction in Staphylococcus aureus and their roles in biofilm-specific gene expression. Mol Microbiol . 2015; 95 (4): 723-37 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Bayles KW. Reviewer Report For: Signaling mechanism by the Staphylococcus aureus two-component system LytSR: role of acetyl phosphate in bypassing the cell membrane electrical potential sensor LytS [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :79 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6666.r12502 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-79/v1#referee-response-12502 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 22 Mar 2016 Dasantila Golemi-Kotra , York University, Toronto, Toronto, Canada 22 Mar 2016 Author Response We are very thankful to the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. We have addressed them point-by-point below: The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus ... Continue reading We are very thankful to the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. We have addressed them point-by-point below: The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus aureus LytSR two-component system. Previous studies have identified two signals that LytSR responds to: dissipation of membrane potential and excess glucose. Using purified protein, the authors characterize the kinetics of the autophosphorylation of LytS and the phosphorylation of LytR by LytS and acetyl-phosphate. The findings include a higher first-order rate constant for the phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl-phosphate as compared to its cognate kinase, LytS. In addition, the first-order rate constant of LytS autophosphorylation indicates a slow reaction as compared to other kinases. It was also demonstrated that LytR forms a dimer once phosphorylated, that LytS has phosphatase activity which is much more efficient that the auto-dephosphorylation of LytR. The results of the paper confirm and add greater insight into the molecular signaling mechanism of LytSR as previously described by Lehman et al, 2015. Overall, manuscript is well written and the experiments nicely executed. However, as can be seen from the comments below, the primary concern is that the authors seemed to have completely missed the work of Lehman et al,2015, which describes much of what is presented in the current manuscript. Thus, the authors should include references to this work as indicated below. Abstract The closing statement of the abstract seems to be a bit overstated as this is not the “first time” these results have been generated. Indeed, very similar results were presented by Lehman et al 2015 that acetyl-phosphate is responsible for the LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. In fact, the Lehman et al paper goes further using in vivo studies of mutants affecting acetyl-phosphate levels to show that under conditions of excess glucose acetyl-phosphate contributes to the signaling of LytSR. To acknowledge the study by Lehman et al. we have included this reference in the new version of the manuscript. We have removed “first time” from abstract as to not divert the attention from the essence of this study. Introduction Paragraph 3: The authors state “both operons were also shown to be induced by carbohydrate metabolism and proposed to be regulated through a CidR-dependent signaling pathway 20 .” This is an inaccurate reference, as cidABC has only been shown to be regulated by CidR, whereas lrgAB expression is dependent on LytSR. Paragraph 3 has been modified now to address the reviewers concerns. Of note, it is proposed in several papers that CidR is involved in regulation of both operons. We have cited the work by Patton et al. 2006. The figure 6 in this work indicates the proposed model. We have replaced Ref 20 with Patton et al. report. We have also added the work by Yang et al 2006. Paragraph 3: The authors should include a reference to the Lehman et al 2015 paper, which followed up the work performed by Sharma et al (from the same lab). As stated above, the Lehman et al 2015 paper demonstrated that acetyl-phosphate does influence LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. Thus, the statement that the “molecular basis for this observation remains obscure” (referring to the Sharma et al. paper) is misleading. We have included Lehman et al. paper in the new version of the manuscript. Paragraph 4: The authors state “Our study shows that LytSR is capable of mediating signaling either through LytS in response to cell membrane electrical potential or through LytR in response to carbohydrate metabolism.” This is overstated as there were no experiments to demonstrate this conclusion. We have been very careful with the use of the language here. We wrote that out study shows that “LytSR is capable of mediating signaling….”. Indeed, autophosphorylation activity of kinase LytS, indicates that LytS is capable of participating directly (with no need for accessary) in signal transduction, and fast phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate indicates that LytR is capable of participating in signal transduction independently of LytS. Results Paragraph 2: It was published by Brunskill and Bayles 1996 that Asp-53 is the likely site of LytR phosphorylation. This observation was confirmed in Lehman et al. 2015. Because the phosphorylation site in all response regulators is conserved, the purpose of mutating Asp53 to Ala in this study was to confirm that signal can be transduced from LytS to LytR as an act of phosphotransfer between LytS and LytR. Kindly refer to Figure 3. Discussion Paragraph 1: LytR does not regulate the cidABC operon as stated. We agree. We have removed this statement. Paragraphs 2 and 5: See Lehman et al 2015 which characterized the LytSR signal transduction pathway in vitro and in vivo. We have recognized the work my Lehman et al. in the new version of the manuscript. We are very thankful to the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. We have addressed them point-by-point below: The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus aureus LytSR two-component system. Previous studies have identified two signals that LytSR responds to: dissipation of membrane potential and excess glucose. Using purified protein, the authors characterize the kinetics of the autophosphorylation of LytS and the phosphorylation of LytR by LytS and acetyl-phosphate. The findings include a higher first-order rate constant for the phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl-phosphate as compared to its cognate kinase, LytS. In addition, the first-order rate constant of LytS autophosphorylation indicates a slow reaction as compared to other kinases. It was also demonstrated that LytR forms a dimer once phosphorylated, that LytS has phosphatase activity which is much more efficient that the auto-dephosphorylation of LytR. The results of the paper confirm and add greater insight into the molecular signaling mechanism of LytSR as previously described by Lehman et al, 2015. Overall, manuscript is well written and the experiments nicely executed. However, as can be seen from the comments below, the primary concern is that the authors seemed to have completely missed the work of Lehman et al,2015, which describes much of what is presented in the current manuscript. Thus, the authors should include references to this work as indicated below. Abstract The closing statement of the abstract seems to be a bit overstated as this is not the “first time” these results have been generated. Indeed, very similar results were presented by Lehman et al 2015 that acetyl-phosphate is responsible for the LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. In fact, the Lehman et al paper goes further using in vivo studies of mutants affecting acetyl-phosphate levels to show that under conditions of excess glucose acetyl-phosphate contributes to the signaling of LytSR. To acknowledge the study by Lehman et al. we have included this reference in the new version of the manuscript. We have removed “first time” from abstract as to not divert the attention from the essence of this study. Introduction Paragraph 3: The authors state “both operons were also shown to be induced by carbohydrate metabolism and proposed to be regulated through a CidR-dependent signaling pathway 20 .” This is an inaccurate reference, as cidABC has only been shown to be regulated by CidR, whereas lrgAB expression is dependent on LytSR. Paragraph 3 has been modified now to address the reviewers concerns. Of note, it is proposed in several papers that CidR is involved in regulation of both operons. We have cited the work by Patton et al. 2006. The figure 6 in this work indicates the proposed model. We have replaced Ref 20 with Patton et al. report. We have also added the work by Yang et al 2006. Paragraph 3: The authors should include a reference to the Lehman et al 2015 paper, which followed up the work performed by Sharma et al (from the same lab). As stated above, the Lehman et al 2015 paper demonstrated that acetyl-phosphate does influence LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. Thus, the statement that the “molecular basis for this observation remains obscure” (referring to the Sharma et al. paper) is misleading. We have included Lehman et al. paper in the new version of the manuscript. Paragraph 4: The authors state “Our study shows that LytSR is capable of mediating signaling either through LytS in response to cell membrane electrical potential or through LytR in response to carbohydrate metabolism.” This is overstated as there were no experiments to demonstrate this conclusion. We have been very careful with the use of the language here. We wrote that out study shows that “LytSR is capable of mediating signaling….”. Indeed, autophosphorylation activity of kinase LytS, indicates that LytS is capable of participating directly (with no need for accessary) in signal transduction, and fast phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate indicates that LytR is capable of participating in signal transduction independently of LytS. Results Paragraph 2: It was published by Brunskill and Bayles 1996 that Asp-53 is the likely site of LytR phosphorylation. This observation was confirmed in Lehman et al. 2015. Because the phosphorylation site in all response regulators is conserved, the purpose of mutating Asp53 to Ala in this study was to confirm that signal can be transduced from LytS to LytR as an act of phosphotransfer between LytS and LytR. Kindly refer to Figure 3. Discussion Paragraph 1: LytR does not regulate the cidABC operon as stated. We agree. We have removed this statement. Paragraphs 2 and 5: See Lehman et al 2015 which characterized the LytSR signal transduction pathway in vitro and in vivo. We have recognized the work my Lehman et al. in the new version of the manuscript. Competing Interests: There is no competing interests. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 22 Mar 2016 Dasantila Golemi-Kotra , York University, Toronto, Toronto, Canada 22 Mar 2016 Author Response We are very thankful to the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. We have addressed them point-by-point below: The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus ... Continue reading We are very thankful to the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. We have addressed them point-by-point below: The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus aureus LytSR two-component system. Previous studies have identified two signals that LytSR responds to: dissipation of membrane potential and excess glucose. Using purified protein, the authors characterize the kinetics of the autophosphorylation of LytS and the phosphorylation of LytR by LytS and acetyl-phosphate. The findings include a higher first-order rate constant for the phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl-phosphate as compared to its cognate kinase, LytS. In addition, the first-order rate constant of LytS autophosphorylation indicates a slow reaction as compared to other kinases. It was also demonstrated that LytR forms a dimer once phosphorylated, that LytS has phosphatase activity which is much more efficient that the auto-dephosphorylation of LytR. The results of the paper confirm and add greater insight into the molecular signaling mechanism of LytSR as previously described by Lehman et al, 2015. Overall, manuscript is well written and the experiments nicely executed. However, as can be seen from the comments below, the primary concern is that the authors seemed to have completely missed the work of Lehman et al,2015, which describes much of what is presented in the current manuscript. Thus, the authors should include references to this work as indicated below. Abstract The closing statement of the abstract seems to be a bit overstated as this is not the “first time” these results have been generated. Indeed, very similar results were presented by Lehman et al 2015 that acetyl-phosphate is responsible for the LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. In fact, the Lehman et al paper goes further using in vivo studies of mutants affecting acetyl-phosphate levels to show that under conditions of excess glucose acetyl-phosphate contributes to the signaling of LytSR. To acknowledge the study by Lehman et al. we have included this reference in the new version of the manuscript. We have removed “first time” from abstract as to not divert the attention from the essence of this study. Introduction Paragraph 3: The authors state “both operons were also shown to be induced by carbohydrate metabolism and proposed to be regulated through a CidR-dependent signaling pathway 20 .” This is an inaccurate reference, as cidABC has only been shown to be regulated by CidR, whereas lrgAB expression is dependent on LytSR. Paragraph 3 has been modified now to address the reviewers concerns. Of note, it is proposed in several papers that CidR is involved in regulation of both operons. We have cited the work by Patton et al. 2006. The figure 6 in this work indicates the proposed model. We have replaced Ref 20 with Patton et al. report. We have also added the work by Yang et al 2006. Paragraph 3: The authors should include a reference to the Lehman et al 2015 paper, which followed up the work performed by Sharma et al (from the same lab). As stated above, the Lehman et al 2015 paper demonstrated that acetyl-phosphate does influence LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. Thus, the statement that the “molecular basis for this observation remains obscure” (referring to the Sharma et al. paper) is misleading. We have included Lehman et al. paper in the new version of the manuscript. Paragraph 4: The authors state “Our study shows that LytSR is capable of mediating signaling either through LytS in response to cell membrane electrical potential or through LytR in response to carbohydrate metabolism.” This is overstated as there were no experiments to demonstrate this conclusion. We have been very careful with the use of the language here. We wrote that out study shows that “LytSR is capable of mediating signaling….”. Indeed, autophosphorylation activity of kinase LytS, indicates that LytS is capable of participating directly (with no need for accessary) in signal transduction, and fast phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate indicates that LytR is capable of participating in signal transduction independently of LytS. Results Paragraph 2: It was published by Brunskill and Bayles 1996 that Asp-53 is the likely site of LytR phosphorylation. This observation was confirmed in Lehman et al. 2015. Because the phosphorylation site in all response regulators is conserved, the purpose of mutating Asp53 to Ala in this study was to confirm that signal can be transduced from LytS to LytR as an act of phosphotransfer between LytS and LytR. Kindly refer to Figure 3. Discussion Paragraph 1: LytR does not regulate the cidABC operon as stated. We agree. We have removed this statement. Paragraphs 2 and 5: See Lehman et al 2015 which characterized the LytSR signal transduction pathway in vitro and in vivo. We have recognized the work my Lehman et al. in the new version of the manuscript. We are very thankful to the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. We have addressed them point-by-point below: The authors of this paper sought to further characterize the signal mechanism of the Staphylococcus aureus LytSR two-component system. Previous studies have identified two signals that LytSR responds to: dissipation of membrane potential and excess glucose. Using purified protein, the authors characterize the kinetics of the autophosphorylation of LytS and the phosphorylation of LytR by LytS and acetyl-phosphate. The findings include a higher first-order rate constant for the phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl-phosphate as compared to its cognate kinase, LytS. In addition, the first-order rate constant of LytS autophosphorylation indicates a slow reaction as compared to other kinases. It was also demonstrated that LytR forms a dimer once phosphorylated, that LytS has phosphatase activity which is much more efficient that the auto-dephosphorylation of LytR. The results of the paper confirm and add greater insight into the molecular signaling mechanism of LytSR as previously described by Lehman et al, 2015. Overall, manuscript is well written and the experiments nicely executed. However, as can be seen from the comments below, the primary concern is that the authors seemed to have completely missed the work of Lehman et al,2015, which describes much of what is presented in the current manuscript. Thus, the authors should include references to this work as indicated below. Abstract The closing statement of the abstract seems to be a bit overstated as this is not the “first time” these results have been generated. Indeed, very similar results were presented by Lehman et al 2015 that acetyl-phosphate is responsible for the LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. In fact, the Lehman et al paper goes further using in vivo studies of mutants affecting acetyl-phosphate levels to show that under conditions of excess glucose acetyl-phosphate contributes to the signaling of LytSR. To acknowledge the study by Lehman et al. we have included this reference in the new version of the manuscript. We have removed “first time” from abstract as to not divert the attention from the essence of this study. Introduction Paragraph 3: The authors state “both operons were also shown to be induced by carbohydrate metabolism and proposed to be regulated through a CidR-dependent signaling pathway 20 .” This is an inaccurate reference, as cidABC has only been shown to be regulated by CidR, whereas lrgAB expression is dependent on LytSR. Paragraph 3 has been modified now to address the reviewers concerns. Of note, it is proposed in several papers that CidR is involved in regulation of both operons. We have cited the work by Patton et al. 2006. The figure 6 in this work indicates the proposed model. We have replaced Ref 20 with Patton et al. report. We have also added the work by Yang et al 2006. Paragraph 3: The authors should include a reference to the Lehman et al 2015 paper, which followed up the work performed by Sharma et al (from the same lab). As stated above, the Lehman et al 2015 paper demonstrated that acetyl-phosphate does influence LytS-independent phosphorylation of LytR. Thus, the statement that the “molecular basis for this observation remains obscure” (referring to the Sharma et al. paper) is misleading. We have included Lehman et al. paper in the new version of the manuscript. Paragraph 4: The authors state “Our study shows that LytSR is capable of mediating signaling either through LytS in response to cell membrane electrical potential or through LytR in response to carbohydrate metabolism.” This is overstated as there were no experiments to demonstrate this conclusion. We have been very careful with the use of the language here. We wrote that out study shows that “LytSR is capable of mediating signaling….”. Indeed, autophosphorylation activity of kinase LytS, indicates that LytS is capable of participating directly (with no need for accessary) in signal transduction, and fast phosphorylation of LytR by acetyl phosphate indicates that LytR is capable of participating in signal transduction independently of LytS. Results Paragraph 2: It was published by Brunskill and Bayles 1996 that Asp-53 is the likely site of LytR phosphorylation. This observation was confirmed in Lehman et al. 2015. Because the phosphorylation site in all response regulators is conserved, the purpose of mutating Asp53 to Ala in this study was to confirm that signal can be transduced from LytS to LytR as an act of phosphotransfer between LytS and LytR. Kindly refer to Figure 3. Discussion Paragraph 1: LytR does not regulate the cidABC operon as stated. We agree. We have removed this statement. Paragraphs 2 and 5: See Lehman et al 2015 which characterized the LytSR signal transduction pathway in vitro and in vivo. We have recognized the work my Lehman et al. in the new version of the manuscript. Competing Interests: There is no competing interests. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bae T. Reviewer Report For: Signaling mechanism by the Staphylococcus aureus two-component system LytSR: role of acetyl phosphate in bypassing the cell membrane electrical potential sensor LytS [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :79 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6666.r12500 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-79/v1#referee-response-12500 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 24 Feb 2016 Taeok Bae , Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Indiana University School of Medicine-Northwest, Gary, IN, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6666.r12500 In Staphylococcus aureus, transcription of the lrgAB operon is positively regulated by the LytSR two component system. Previous studies demonstrated that LytS, the sensor histidine kinase, is activated by two different kinds of signals: the loss of membrane potential and ... Continue reading READ ALL 