FAD2 family proteins in plants require a reductant that is channelled via an electron transport chain comprising of cytochrome b5 (Cb5) and cytochrome b5 reductase (CBR). This study explores the hypothesis that lower than expected levels of hydroxy fatty acid (HFA) accumulation in engineered Arabidopsis could in part be due to inefficient interaction between the expressed castor hydroxylase and the endogenous Cb5 electron transport chain. The authors used a well characterized line of Arabidopsis (CL37) previously engineered to express the castor hydroxylase. Retransformation with a various cDNAs encoding Cb5 or Cb5+CBR1 failed to generate lines with increased HFA content. The study addresses an important and somewhat overlooked aspect of the ER fatty acid modification processes. The experiments are well planned, and the comparison of null and transgenic lines in single insertion lines (Fig.4) adds confidence to the data. My only concern is that although there is evidence of transgene expression by RT-PCR, there is no evidence to show the assembly of a functional electron transport chain containing the expressed proteins, or an increase in electron transport activity resulting from Cb5 and CBR overexpression. A biologically active Cb5 requires the assembly of cytochrome b5 apoprotein and haem to generate the Cb5-holoprotein. Demonstrating over-expression of active Cb5 would require a spectrophotometric assay of microsomal membranes to quantify the amount of Cb5 present and to determine electron transport activity (not easy in Arabidopsis). Alternatively, a Western blot showing increased Cb5 protein and a good argument that haem-protein assembly in developing Arabidopsis seeds is not limiting would help. An added complication from measuring total HFA in mature seed is that changes in HFA production could be masked by bottlenecks in HFA assembly into TAG. Further development of this work will be very interesting; the conclusions would be better supported by characterization of the electron transport chain.