The work is clearly and accurately presented with current literature. The study design is appropriate. The work is found to be reproducible. Statistical methods are suitable and interpretations are appropriate. Conclusions are supported by results. In addition to these points, reviewer’s comments are provided as follow. Methods: Study participants : Add ‘a’ in the sentence of ……….by applying a multistage cluster sampling method. Assessment of variables: Author uses interchangeably the words – ‘explanatory’ and ‘independent’, both of which have same meaning. To avoid reader’s confusion, the author should use only one word – either ‘explanatory’ or ‘independent’. Or use like ….independent (explanatory) variable and then continuously use ‘independent’ only throughout the text. Data analysis : In description of p values, in the text, small letter ‘p’ is used, and in the tables (3) and (4), capital letter ‘P’ is used. Author should use only one type either small or capital to have consistency throughout the text. The small one is better Results: Author uses the words – ‘spouse’ in the text and ‘husband’ in the table. Should use only one type. Table (1): Table construction should be like this . In Table (2) heading, ‘Factors related to’ is used and in the text ‘Factors relating to’ is used. Use only one type. Table (2): Table construction should be like this . Table (3) and (4): It is better if author constructs two columns separately for – ‘Variables’ - and ‘category’ as suggested above. Discussion: The prevalence of full PNC utilization should be described with 95% CI, rather than 25.2%. The word ‘our’ should not be used. Use ‘the present study’ instead of ‘our study’. Add ‘be’ in the sentence of …..The possible explanation might be that low income….. Add ‘were’ in the sentence of …..their knowledge about maternal health were significantly related…….. In the last sentence of Discussion, one related reference should be added to support the statement of ‘ a 2 year recall period was selected to minimize this bias ’. Conclusion: The determinants should not be described again because they have been already described before. In the last sentence of Conclusion, use ‘is’ instead of ‘should be’, reflecting an author’s strong suggestion. 