The provided dataset provides the opportunity for more in-depth study of two versions of the F9 gene with identical protein amino acid sequence but different nucleotide coding sequences, thus allowing for an exploration of the consequences of differential codon usage. The dataset itself is of biological and pharmacological interest and offers a valuable data contribution. More specific comments and questions regarding key points of the data note are provided below. Introduction: At face value, this seems like a re-publishing of a dataset that has already been described in the literature (albeit with some additional detail and the pipeline). Were any data added or modified between the original publication and this data note? It is not clear why this dataset was not published with the original study describing these data ( https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-51984-2 ) 1 . If part of the intended contribution of this data note is the pipeline, it would be helpful to at least provide a bash script that ties together the different scripts and flexibly accepts input FASTQ files. Currently, with all the hard-coding present, it makes it difficult to reuse these scripts, especially when input references or sequence files vary from those used when analyzing this particular dataset. Methods: A Pearson's correlation assumes the data are normally distributed. As sequencing data follows a negative binomial distribution, the use of a Spearman rank-order coefficient would be more appropriate. It might be helpful to clarify that this is for comparing biological replicates. Is there a reason the A-site offset is set at a strict 15 nt? Recent methods, such as those found in the RiboWaltz ( https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006169 ) 2 package allow for a more optimized P-site offset determination that could probably be applied to A-site offset determination. On that note, is there a downstream reason you are interested in calculating the offset of the A-site? It looks like P-sites were used when calculating periodicity in the figures and scripts and thus it is not clear why the A-site offset is mentioned. The pipeline uses deprecated software (TopHat has been deprecated for nearly 5 years now) and should be updated to use a more accurate splice-aware option (such as STAR, HISAT2). Figures might need to be updated as appropriate. Is the installation of dependencies included in a script, or does the user need to handle that? For example, BioPython and pysam are included as a dependency in the python scripts, but I don't see them listed in the manuscript. GitHub Documentation: To aid in readability, some formatting updating (new lines in example code) would be helpful. Currently, there are several commands on the same line as a comment, making the commands and comments difficult to read. Using markdown syntax to display the code sections would aid in readability as well. Explicitly state the gene annotation used for the preparation of this dataset. Comprehensive, basic gene, etc? Same for the GFF3 file. It is not clear from the documentation itself what versions were used and would be nice from an archiving/reproducibility stand-point. The same goes for listing software versions used for processing the dataset as presented in the paper. Code: I could not get the trim-adapters.py script to work using the deposited data. I had empty trimmed files output and no error information was displayed to aid in debugging. As far as functionality, all of the indexing scripts appeared to function, but I was unable to test past the trim-adapters.py script due to the issue mentioned above. 