The article titled: Knowledge and practices about breastfeeding in rural areas of Rajshahi District, Bangladesh, is a cross-sectional study focused on mothers with at least one child age 6-12 months residing in a rural community. The study is relevant, especially as it is carried out in a rural area where majority of mothers may not have adequate access to Antenatal Care services which is a vital contact for enhancing knowledge and practice relating to EBP. Poor Knowledge and Practice about EBF could be a pointer towards strengthening the Antenatal care services in rural communities. As "Infant development is measured by nutritional level", it becomes appropriate to create more awareness towards EBF practices,especially at the rural level. Below are my comments and recommendations: Abstract At the Background section , the authors stated that the study was among mothers with at least one child age (6-12 years). But in the Methods section they mentioned (6-12) months. Of course it can’t be both. Please revisit and use the correct age. In the Result section , the authors mentioned: “The incidence of EBF good knowledge and practices was 32.0% and 27.9% among mothers with at least one child age (6-12) months.” I believe this value here is prevalence and not incidence as this is a cross sectional study, as incidence is a measure of the occurrence of new cases of disease (or some other outcome) during a span of time . In the Result section, the authors mentioned: “Mothers that had a monthly family income of ≤ 6 699 BDT had less knowledge and practices about EBF compared to mothers with a family income of 6 699 BDT.” I think from the results in Tables 1 2, it’s more (or good which is the right term to use) Knowledge and Practice and not less for both. Keywords : Knowledge should be separated from Practice (Knowledge, Practice), Chi-square Test and Binary Logistic Regression shouldn’t be key words as this is not a Statistical methodology paper. Other key words are recommended. Introduction In text Referencing: The information in Reference 8 , “EBF for at least 6 months is not a general practice in developed nations, and is even less in developing nations” is too old (1999) and may not be the true state of things in the present time. A reference not older than 10 years should be sought and is recommended. In text Referencing: The information in Reference 10 , “Nearly all Bangladeshi children are breastfed to some extent in the first year of life and many mothers continue to breastfeed up to the second year of a baby’s life (91%)” is from one study and not suitable for this sort of generalization. A systematic review would have been more appropriate. In text Referencing: Also the same reference 10 stated something contrary from the previous sentence above: “Bangladesh has the highest prevalence of malnourished in South East Asia with a high percentage of children aged 59 months being underweight .” I am not sure which to consider appropriate. The authors stated in the last paragraph of the introduction: “Only a few studies have been carried out on EBF, and most of these studies were carried out in developing countries.” Although my own personal search showed several studies. Authors should use a more rigorous search strategy. The authors stated in the last paragraph of the introduction: “Furthermore, methodological concerns associated with the measurement of knowledge and practices about EBF have not been adequately addressed in earlier studies.” If this is so, then the studies applicable should be stated. The authors stated in the last paragraph of the introduction: “The difficulty of judging knowledge lies in its multidimensional aspects; most of studies have been focused on a few indicators.” I understand accessing knowledge of any kind requires a multidimensional approach but I do not agree that it’s a difficult process. Please rephrase sentence. On the last paragraph of the introduction, the authors stated, “…most of studies have been focused on a few indicators.” Should read “ most of the studies have been focused on a few indicators.” The statement: “To the best of our knowledge, in Bangladesh this type of study has not been conducted” i s not completely accurate as my personal search found several studies. Methodology Study design Study design was not mentioned. Although from the title of the study, it was clear that this is a cross-sectional study but it was not mentioned in the right place. What was said here was: “A village hospital based study…” which is not a study design. Please include the study design in this section. The authors stated: “There are several reasons why we selected mothers who have at least one child aged 6–12 months” and I saw only two reasons. Maybe it should be stated two reasons and not several reasons. The authors stated, “Firstly, to the best of our knowledge in this area no studies have been conducted on EBF” and personally for me, I found several similar studies in my search. Simple size determination The authors stated, “The following formula has been used for calculating sample size: n= N/ (1+Nd 2 )…” and they gave a reference from Haque et al., (2012). The original author for this formula is Taro Yomane, and the Reference link is:[Yamane, Taro. 1967. Statistics, An Introductory Analysis, 2nd Ed., New York: Harper and Row. 1 ] Using this formula, the minimum sample size should have been 371 when calculated and not 366 as stated. Participants “ A two-stage purposive sampling approach was chosen to enrol mothers..” ‘enrol’ should read, ‘enroll.’ “The inclusion criteria of the participants was mothers who have at one child aged 6–12 months..” Should read, “The inclusion criteria of the participants were mothers who have at least one child aged 6–12 months …” The authors stated, “A two-stage purposive sampling approach was chosen to enrol mothers that have at least one child aged 6–12 months from Rajshahi district. In the first stage, out of nine upazila of Rajshahi District, one upazila was purposively selected. In the second stage, purposive sampling was used for the selected sample size.” The whole process of the sample size selection is not clear as the authors had stated in the Abstract, “A total of 513 mothers who had at least one child's age (6-12) months from 32 different village hospitals in rural areas of the Rajshahi District, Bangladesh.” Is 32 different village hospitals from one Upazila? Also, the 32 different village hospitals couldn’t have been the sample size and so a step in selecting the village hospitals is missing. This study would have done well with a Probability sampling. The authors stated, “The interviews took place at the participants homes.” How is this possible when the authors have already stated that the sample size was from 32 different village hospitals? Data collection The Sentence, “The survey questionnaires were drafted in Bangla, the national and mother tongue of Bangladesh and was then for research purpose translated…” is not comprehensible. Please rephrase. Independent variables I would have preferred the raw ages of the women were used so we can have mean age in the study population, before categorization for the inferential statistics purposes. Statistical analyses In the statement, “Demographic differences regarding good knowledge and practices of EBF were assessed by χ 2 analysis significance ..” It is proper to put a Chi-Square before the χ 2 symbol. Also, the ‘significance’ should be removed. “95% confidence intervals (Cis)” Cis should read CIs Results I think the first table for this study should have been a descriptive statistics of all the independent variables. The authors started with an inferential statistics, where they compared the independents and the dependents variables. In their methodology they mentioned, “Descriptive analyses were conducted…” although I didn’t find a separate table for the descriptive analysis, which is the proper thing to do, as it was merged with the inferential statistics table. They also mentioned, “The incidence [ which I think should be changed to prevalence ] of EBF good knowledge and practices was 32.0% and 27.9% among mothers with at least one child age (6-12) months.” No separate descriptive statistics table to verify this information. Discussion The authors stated “Until now, according to the best of our knowledge this type of study has not been performed in Bangladesh, but similar studies have been conducted in different populations.” The phrase ‘similar studies’ [plural] should have more than one reference. And the Reference 22 quoted here has to do with Tuberculosis (TB) and not EBF: [Moya EM, Biswas A, Chvez Baray SM, et al. : Assessment of stigma associated with tuberculosis in Mexico. Public Health Action. 2014; 4(4): 226–32. 2 ]. The authors incorrectly stated, “The study found that, middle aged mothers (≤30 years) had low knowledge and practices as compared with older respondents (31 years)… and similar results have been found in other countries”. This is contrary to findings in Tables 1 2, and also the findings stated in the Abstract section of the study. Also the phrase, “similar results have been found in other countries” is from a study conducted in one country, India. I do not see the justification for the phrase, ‘other countries.’ The authors incorrectly stated, “The present study found that hospital delivery respondents had low knowledge and practices..” This is totally in opposite to findings in Tables 1 2, and also the findings stated in the Abstract section of the study. “This study result is consistent with previous other studies .” Was mentioned in the concluding aspect of the third paragraph. Reference 26 is a TB study [Rana M, Sayem A, Karim R, et al. : Assessment of knowledge regarding tuberculosis among non-medical university students in Bangladesh: a cross-sectional study. BMC Public Health. 2015; 15(1): 716. 3 ]. The authors stated, “This study had a few limitations. Firstly, it was a village based study and people are busy.” I do not see this as a limitation. Appropriate study limitations recommended. 