The reviewers' objective was to evaluate evidence on the impact of prenatal, intrapartum, and early childhood antibiotic exposure and the association with the risk of overweight and obesity later in childhood. To answer this question, the researchers decided to include in their systematic review both experimental and observational studies, however, only observational data was identified at this time. The Reviewers concluded that very low-quality evidence suggests that exposure to antibiotics early in life may be associated with an increased risk of overweight and obesity in later childhood. Comments that should be addressed: General comments: 1: There are significant deviations from the PROSPERO protocol that should be commented on/explained: different review question, different databases searched (less than pre-planned), different inclusion criteria (i.e. Protocol: the authors stated “Participants/population: Children aged 0 to 18, of any body weight and health status will be included.”; Manuscript: the authors did study the maternal prenatal and intrapartum antibiotic exposure.) two of the main outcomes (diabetes and change in the microbiome) were not reported at all. (If the authors did not find any studies we would recommend adding such a statement in the manuscript), different methods for the risk of bias assessment - what was the rationale for this change? pre-planned analyses of subgroups are different in the final paper than in the PROSPERO record [i.e. pre-planned analyses not done : subgroup analyses for boys versus girls; the effect of broad vs. narrow spectrum of antibiotics will be analyzed for all outcomes; we will assess the potential impact of early exposure (less than 3 years of age) to antibiotics versus later exposure (3 years of age or greater) (but done for 7y vs =7y)]. In line with the above commentaries, the cited sentence should be changed accordingly (" a priori design was published as a written protocol and registered with PROSPERO 13 . We closely followed our a priori protocol"). 2a: In the methods section, the main outcomes of interest (overweight and obesity) are defined as BMI 25 kg/m2 for overweight and 30 kg/m2 for obesity, which is typically used in adults. It should be explained why the authors did not consider (in the methods) different, more appropriate outcomes for children definitions of overweight/obesity (i.e. 1SD for overweight and 2SD for obesity in children 5-19y in accordance to WHO). As most of the included studies were reporting the main outcome in percentiles – therefore the methods section should be changed accordingly. 2b: In the PROSPERO protocol, pre-specified outcomes were 1. Overweight 2. Obesity. Please clarify what was behind the decision to group the second outcome as Overweight + Obesity? Why was the pre-planned outcome of "obesity only" not reported at all? There is at least a theoretical chance that the overweight effect was big enough to make a grouped outcome of overweight + obesity also significant, even if obesity alone was non-significant (alone). It would be of interest for all readers to complement this review with analysis for the obesity outcome only (as was pre-planned). 3: As the literature search was conducted 24 months apart of completion of the review, and the Reviewers report other relevant studies in their discussion, one should consider updating the search, as following guidance from the Cochrane Handbook: “Reviews that are out of date and do not incorporate all the available evidence risk providing misleading information to decision makers and other stakeholders.” https://training.cochrane.org/handbook/current/chapter-iv . Additional specific comments: Abstract: Currently, the methods in the abstract do not match with those in the manuscript – please correct: (‘We conducted a comprehensive search of Embase, MEDLINE, and Web of Science for observational studies’ vs Inclusion criteria'. Observational and experimental study designs were eligible). Results section: could you add the number of participants eligible for both calculations of overweight and (overweight + obesity)? Results: The flow diagram shows that the authors identified 12116 (12091+25). However, in the manuscript there is the number 12091 – please clarify. Could the authors provide the Table of Excluded studies? Does the excluded studies table contain: Poulsen et al. (2017 1 )? If not, what was the reason to exclude this study? To increase readability, numerical references should be added in Table 1 near each included study. Figure 7 – not described adequately – low risk of bias? Apart from the specific comments, we have additionally assessed this systematic review using the AMSTAR-2 critical appraisal tool (Shea et al. , 2017 2 ) with an overall rating of confidence as moderate/low (due to deviations from the PROSPERO protocol and other non-critical weaknesses). "No" was answered to the following domains in the AMSTAR 2 tool: 2; 7,10;13. 