This is a well done contribution by a group having good experience in organotypic brain slice cultures. The MS is well written, the methods clear and the pictures of good quality. I have a few suggestions: Please provide more details in the Abstract, especially, on the organotypic brain slice model (3xTg mice, chopper slices, 350 m, postnatal d8-9, cultured for 2weeks on 0.4 m pore semipermeable membranes). Please also add this information in the Box research highlights. This is important to see on one view which kind of slices you mean. I suggest that you are more careful about the used number of animals. In Abstract you write an estimated 20,000 mice per year for dementia research and on page 3, right col. sec. paragr. you write ... were used in AD research, and you write 20,000 transgenic; assuming from 30 mice per paper. What do you mean: (1) per year in UK, Europe or the world?, (2) total mice per year or only transgenic per year? (3) based on which fact you assume 30 mice per paper (value 30 is just your thoughts or is this based on an official reference?). I suggest that you check an EU report on the total number of animals/mice/transgenic, or you check your national institution (and also give the official reference). Such rough values could be very problematic. Page 3 third paragr: .... importantly, slice cultures are prepared from neonatal mice ... this (neonatal) should be explained as it is unclear. It would be helpful to give the average weight of the postnatal d8-9 mice. We usually weigh them, to be sure about the stage. Or do you have other rules to be sure on the correct stage. Also mention up to which age does your model work? Page 5, point 6: typo: 2x remove Page 7 right col, last paragr: ....when reporting on the phosphorylation of tau via LiCl and GSK-3, the authors may cite the recent paper Foidl and Humpel (2018) in Frontiers Aging Neurosci. on hyperphosphorylation of tau in organotypic brain slices induced by okadaic acid. In this respect also the review on brain culture slices by Humpel (2015) in Neuroscience should be cited (page 4, left col, line, 14). Please explain better your definition of the n-number (page 8, right col.) .... one postnatal d8 or 9 pup can provide an n=36. I think that one mouse only gives an n=1; for an experiment you need at least 6-8 different mice (n=6-8); but one mouse can give up to 36 different treatments (or in duplicate 2x18). What is your suggestion on power calculations (how many slices per group?). Please explain better any statistical issues. Finally, please state in your conclusion the limits of the brain slices; how to study genetic (familiar) versus sporadic AD, how comparable is the developmental stage with the adult stage (maturation of neurons after 2 weeks in culture?), how long do you need to culture to get at least an early comparable adult stage, what about axonal networks and the problem of axotomy. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Not applicable Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 