I wish to thank the authors very much for the opportunity to review this interesting investigation of theirs. In this retrospective study, the authors correlated a set of prospectively collected data including a comprehensive assessment of upper airway and neck anatomy and function to the event " difficult laryngeal mask (LMA) placement " in 2,348 adult patients. Those patients, who underwent elective, non-obstetric procedures, received an LMA Unique as the primary device to control the airway during their surgery. LMA placement was generally performed by anesthesiology residents. Difficult LMA placement was defined as either inability to physically place a LMA device or inadequacy of ventilation, oxygenation, or airway protection after placement that required conversion to an alternative technique. The authors identified 69 patients that met their criteria for difficult LMA placement. By logistic regression analysis, they came to the conclusion that neck circumference larger than 44 inches and female sex were independently associated with difficult LMA placement. The hypothesis of the study that a comprehensive preoperative assessment of the airway may help predicting difficulties at the placement of an LMA is an interesting one, certainly worth of an exploration. The main issue I see in the abstract, title, methods and conclusion of the study is an ambiguous definition of difficult LMA placement that likely includes two separate entities: a) failure to position an LMA (2 cases in the study, as per results presented in Table 4); and b) failure of the LMA during the use (15 cases, again as per Table 4 after removing the two above mentioned failures). If my above interpretation of the study premises is correct, it is unlikely we can understand the causes of intraoperative failure of the LMA if intraoperative factors are not explored. In particular, I believe that it would be important to consider what procedures the patients were undergoing when the LMA failure was detected, how much after the induction of the anesthesia and the start of the surgery the failure occurred, and other intraoperative and anesthetic factors like position of the operating table (flat, Trendelemburg, reverse Trendelemburg, etc.), the type of anesthesia (inhalational, intravenous, balanced technique, etc.), and so on. In fact, intra-operative factors may have had a more relevant role in determining the intra-operative failure of the LMA than the baseline patient anatomical characteristics. This additional information could provide more insight on the mechanisms of LMA failure and could also facilitate a comparison of the results of this study with the ones obtained by Dr. Ramachandran and colleagues at the University of Michigan . Therefore, my advice to the authors is to add as much information as they can retrieve in their database on intraoperative factors that may have had a role in determining LMA failure. Besides this significant limitation, the study approaches the problem of "LMA failure" (either initial failure to position or later failure during surgery) from an interesting perspective and provides some new and interesting data that can be of interest to many clinicians. A few additional questions: Table 1: last row title . What do the authors mean here? Table 3: Can the authors provide the specific references for each of the categories: , , , , ? Methods: did the authors retrieve (part of) their data from an electronic or a paper anesthetic records? This information could be reported in the methods section. Discussion, page 6. Can the authors further clarify the following point (in particular what they intend by "stepwise selection" and how this relates to the bias of the study) Discussing the limitations of the present investigation, it is necessary to mention the retrospective nature as well the stepwise selection that may contribute to bias the study, and the subjective nature of the definition of difficult LMA placement.? 