This manuscript reports on a study of CAPE assessment for the limited prosocial emotions specifier to DSM-5 conduct disorder in a high-risk sample. Results make a contribution in that they provide support for the construct validity of the CAPE. Evidence for clinical utility is equivocal. There are a few areas for clarification that would help to better understand aspects of the study and its results. Method/Sample The manuscript notes different age ranges. If I understand correctly the target children ranged in age from 5-18 years and that all children ranged in age from 3-19 years. I think it would help the reader to explicitly denote these age ranges in terms of target and comparison children (or some other fashion). Please comment on whether we should we expect the LPE specifier and thus the CAPE to perform similarly across this wide developmental range? The total sample of children appears to be N = 85. This sample size should be stated explicitly as the manuscript states it somewhat indirectly in terms of describing a breakdown of 50 non-target and 35 target children when describing group characteristics. Given that there are 34 families and, if I understood correctly, 85 children, ratings of children in the same family by the same parent are nested and so non-independent. The nesting calls into question the validity of p-values derived from tests of statistical significance assuming independence of observation. Some way of addressing this concern should be included. An additional statistical concern, is low power, as acknowledged by the authors as a caveat to interpreting results. A formal power analysis should be included. This information will help the reader to better evaluate both significant and non-significant findings in terms of effect size and sample size. Conclusions/Discussion The hypothesized utility of the LPE specifier is to identify children at higher risk for severe and persistent conduct problems and antisocial behavior. The authors should address the utility of LPE/CAPE, given that no higher risk youth were identified in this sample. Some specific factors to address: The lack of identifying such a subgroup may be entirely due to insufficient statistical power. As noted above, asserting that low power led to this result requires a power analysis. It may also be that elevated risk may be evident over time rather than cross-sectionally. 