The present study explores the use of opioids in obstetric and gynaecological surgery in Sweden. The authors have done a nice survey among Swedish hospitals covering a majority of the procedures performed. The study is properly designed, the results reported correctly with adequate clinically relevant conclusions. However, some revisions are needed in the manuscript. Throughout the manuscript please revise the language according to tenses and report the results in “past time”. Please use a consequent numbering format with numbers and letters. Consider sending the manuscript for language proof reading to improve the quality. Abstract: Change “…47 anaesthesiologists at ob. units…” to “… all anaesthetic obstetric unit..” Introduction: Line 5: 90-150 of how many?? Methods: “..26 questions sent by mail…” Please specify postal mail “…questionnaire was produced to reflect….” Designed or Formulated might be better than Produced “…no formal statistical tests WERE used.” Please use past form. Results Regarding the responding clinics, was it 32 units that responded with postal mail? Or total response rate? Consider deleting the word “mailed”. The results here are not in accordance with the results in the abstract where you state that the units represented 83% of annual CS. Better formulation may be: “… 32 of 47 (68%) units responded to the questionnaires representing 83 % of annual CS in Sweden...” Please provide proof that larger units were more willing to respond. Significant? Please be consequent with the dosing: now both g and microgram are used. Section epidural morphine: Table 1: The table is difficult to view in the current layout. Suggestion ------- Number of units Response rate 32/47 Intrathecal morphine 20 Standard dose 100 g 17 Standard dose 125 g 3 Combined with fentanyl 16 Combined with sufentanil 2 Intrathecal Fentanyl 21 Standard dose 10-14 g 18 Etc… ------------- Discussion Please add “…all responding units used….” to the first sentence. “…a survey in 2009 (not published)”. I “Data on file” might be a better formulation than “not published” “The addition of sufentanil (15 units) or fentanyl (9units…)” Please reformulate so that it is clear that you mean number of OB/Gyn units and not units of the drugs. Last paragraph of the Discussion: Move the results to the first part of the results section. Please also include limitations of the study in the discussion. Were there any pit-falls? Can the results be generalised outside Sweden? The standard care for the units are reported, but is there a variability at the units that has to be discussed? Consider reducing the length of the discussion. References There is a mixed format of the references with special attention to the page numbering. Please adhere to the Index Medicus/Medline format. Check page number ref 23.