Camargo et al. report on results of plasma next-generation sequencing (NGS) for infectious diagnosis in a series of ten patients at risk for infection due to underlying immunocompromise. In addition to demonstrating concordance of NGS testing with conventional microbiologic diagnostic testing methods in seven of the ten patients, NGS testing identified a possibly causative organism in two cases in which conventional test results were negative. In one of the ten patients, PCR and culture detected Aspergillus ; while NGS was able to detect this organism, it was below the assay detection limit. The authors conclude that this pilot study supports the conclusion that there may be clinical benefit for using this test in this population of patients, warranting more rigorous studies of test performance. Overall, the manuscript does not contain significant flaws that would preclude indexing. The authors appropriately acknowledge the limitations of this small pilot study, which by design is not able to determine detailed test performance characteristics such as sensitivity or specificity. Accordingly, my comments are fairly minor and include: The methods and results sections report the NGS data in “molecules per microliter” (MPM), which is defined as “the number of DNA sequencing reads from the reported organism present per microliter of plasma.” Although this is a fairly straightforward concept, in the context of sequencing it is not totally clear how the more commonly used concepts of sequencing “breadth” and depth” (e.g., as discussed by Sims et al. , 2014 1 ) apply to MPM. Is it possible to explain MPM in a little more detail? E.g., is there a minimum depth of sequencing that needs to be satisfied for there to be "one" MPM? Does every base in a sequence need to have a certain number of reads? The methods also refer to the removal of possible “false-positive calls” from common environmental contaminants – can any examples of organisms that would fit these criteria be provided? Since immunocompromised patients may be at risk of infection from uncommon organisms associated with their environment (particularly uncommon moulds), it is important to understand what may not be reported. It’s not completely clear from the text whether results of NGS testing were used for clinical care. Although in most cases it is stated that an established diagnosis of infection was made prior to NGS testing, at least two patients had negative conventional testing and were reported to respond to therapy directed at the organisms identified by NGS. Were these patients responding to empiric treatment, or did NGS results direct the treatment? Several places in the manuscript refer to the abdominal infection in the kidney transplant patient as “deep-seated,” but only once is the more medically precise term “abscess” used to describe this infection. Also, can more details about this infection be provided? This is important as the patient appears to have had negative testing (unless the detection limit was lowered below that which the assay typically uses), providing additional clues to situations in which NGS testing may provide false negative results (more on this in the next comment). All of the patients had received some antibiotic (antibacterial and/or antifungal) treatment at the time of NGS testing, and one of the more impressive and useful aspects of the test is that it may be able to detect organisms in the setting of effective treatment. However, although a duration of treatment is reported in Table 1, whether this treatment would have been effective against the organism identified is not clear, complicating the interpretation of the data. For example, the Discussion notes that “several months” of treatment had been given to the patient with the Aspergillus abscess prior to NGS testing, but it is not totally clear if it was all directed against Aspergillus – if so, the negative result is less concerning (and the ability to detect the organism below the reportable threshold is still impressive). Similarly, did patient 10 receive 129 days of antifungal treatment with anti- Aspergillus activity prior to his positive test? Although it is understandable why prophylactic treatment would not generally be reported for all patients, was patient 4 receiving any prophylaxis against Pneumocystis? There are a handful of fairly minor editorial corrections also, including: On page 4 the “clinically reportable range” is referred to as “our” clinically reportable range – although it is acknowledged that three of the authors are from the company which performed the NGS testing, given that certain details of the testing are ultimately proprietary perhaps a more generic statement (as simple as “the clinically reportable range”) would be preferred. In that same paragraph, although the Mandell textbook is considered by many to be the “go-to” reference for clinical infectious diseases, perhaps it could be referred to as “a clinical infectious diseases reference textbook” or some less subjective phrase? Also, it appears the 8 th edition is being referenced, which I believe is actually from 2015 (not 2014)? The third paragraph in the left column on page 7 contains the phrase “there is limited data…” – as data is plural this should be corrected to “there are limited data…”. 