 Summarized statement This is a comprehensive piece of work with a number of interesting experiments. However, I suggest to not accepting the paper in its present form. To my opinion the authors have not convincingly shown an initial viral replication in RBCs, although this represents their primary experimental basis. All consecutive data are based on this initial assumption and this makes the whole story challengeable. In contrast to the assumption of viral replication detection of viral RNA by RT-PCR could have been simply based on inoculated virus that could have been absorbed to the surface of RBCs or internalized by them. In order to prove viral replication de novo synthetized viral RNA or protein expression must be determined. In this system viral RNA replication can be determined on the mRNA level. For the RT step e.g. oligo(dT) primers could be used that only bind to the polyadenylated tail of mRNAs. The resulting cDNA must then be thoroughly treated with RNAse. This experiment is essential to make the experiments reliable. Alternatively, I suggest modifying the whole story and stressing the obvious responses of RBCs to the virus (avoiding the claim of virus replication). Thus the title could be changed into something like e.g. “Response of rainbow trout RBCs to VHSV”. Specific comments Introduction: The authors claim: "To compensate for those immune deficiencies, fish have unique phagocytic B lymphocytes". This is not fully true since also B lymphocytes of some mammalians can execute phagocytosis. They further claim: "To compensate for those immune deficiencies, … and stronger innate immune responses, as shown in survivors of viral infection". This is highly speculative and can’t be concluded from a single paper. Material and methods: The anti-β-defensin (BD1) anti -IFN1 and anti -IFNγ antibodies have not been described or characterized elsewhere. Their suitability can be questioned. The anti-Mx3 antiserum has been produced against a predicted Mx peptide. However, I did not find information on the characterization of this antiserum. The anti-IL1β and the NKEF antibodies have only been tested against the immunizing peptide and there is no further information if the antibodies react with the respective native proteins. The rabbit polyclonal antibody against human NF-κβ p65 has not been shown to be suitable in any fish species. Abcam only declares that it reacts with mouse, rat, chicken, human and Indian muntjac (Heterocephalus glaber). Those species are phylogenetically not closely related to teleosts. The authors describe: "Separately, NVHSV RT-qPCR was also used to quantify the viral RNA inside VHSV-exposed RBCs …." This is not a proof that virus was inside erythrocytes. The virus could have been simply attached/absorbed to RBCs. To show viral replication RT-PCR with mRNA is required. "RBCs were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA)…" Unfixed RBCs should have been used in addition to fixed RBCs in order to distinguish between intracellular and membrane bound virus. Results: The authors conclude: “…to monitor the replication of VHSV in trout RBCs. … Clearly, the expressions of NVHSV gene were significantly upregulated at 3 hours postexposure.”. Again, I can’t support this statement since replication can’t be shown by RT-PCR for an RNA virus. Here simply increasing attachment to RBCs might have occurred which explains lower Cq values (higher amounts of viral RNA, respectively). This needs to be verified on the mRNA level. The authors write: “On the other hand, after VHSV enters the cell, the first gene that starts to transcribe is the NVHSV gene,…”. This observation has been made in cell cultures that are permissive for VHSV. However, it has not convincingly been shown in this paper that N gene transcription took place in RBCs (see my comments above). “NVHSV RT-qPCR also confirmed the presence of viral RNA in VHSV-infected RBCs (Figure 2B).” Similarly to the above mentioned, this just says that VHSV was associated with RBCs, but not if the virus was inside RBCs. Attached virus could have resulted in positive RT-PCR results as well. To further illustrate my concerns regarding viral replication in RBCs I have a few comments regarding Figure 1: The authors write that “The initial VHSV inoculum titer declined ~3-logs after 3 days". In Figure 1H, however, I see a 4 log (from 10-to-the-6 to 10-to-the-2) reduction after 3 days (72 hours). As for Figure 1H a negative control is missing where the same inoculum should have been added to the corresponding amount of cell-free medium or, even better, to inactivated (irradiated) erythrocytes. At 14C, viral titers would probably also drop in the absence of cells (RBCs). In Figure 1H the viral titers with RBCs drop within 72 hours by log4. However, in Figure 1D I can see an increase (although minor) in viral titers between 72 hours and 6 days in untreated cells. Is this statistically approved? In Figure 1D the authors claim that “VHSV internalization in trout RBCs is NH4Cl-sensitive.” I can’t follow this conclusion. If internalization was NH4Cl-sensitive why it did not fully block virus internalization? The difference between untreated and treated RBCs is about only 2 fold. Is this statistically approved? Why the decrease in internalization wasn’t checked 3 hours after exposure when the N gene expression was claimed to be highest in RBCs, and why was it recorded 3 days post exposure when viral titers have been dropped by 4 logs anyway? The NH4Cl blocking experiment should have been done with RTG-2 cells as a positive control? Ethical statement The anti-IL1β antibody and the NKEF antibodies have been produced by ascitic tumor induction. This method is not in line with European standards of animal welfare. Since there are already two reports on this manuscript by two other referees, which I agree on, I will not repeat their objections and suggestions. 