The authors report their study on the variation of color intensity of the chromatophores present in the wings of Schistocerca americana. For this, 31 specimens were subjected to thermal transitions within a range of decreasing temperatures, from 45 to 5C. Darkening and intensifying of color was revealed by optical microscopy of the insect wings. The reviewer believes that this study represents a novelty and is of interest to the scientific community. The authors' approach may have an impact in the monitoring of local climate changes. The manuscript is well written, has a good flow, and its English style is good. The observations listed below are intended to serve for further improving the quality of the paper. Observations regarding the content: Please, add to the Abstract, as well, the following statement of the Conclusion: "The color change can be considered as an indicator of a reaction to the increase or decrease of temperature as the clear surface (in this case the wings) reflects the radiation emitted by the light bulbs and, therefore, absorb less heat, while at decreasing temperature, the wings absorb the more and more heat." Please add to the Introduction: "It is believed that the detected color in natural environment may become an indicative of local climate change." The reviewer believes that instructing school students to survey the color of insects may represent a statistical means to reveal possible micro changes in climate. Three additional references would be welcome: (i) at the end of section on Specimen collection: Reference (or web site) for the protocol of the Ministry of Environment of Ecuador; (ii) for iVinci Express v.4.6. (iii) for 0to225 software. Housing of specimens – the second sentence is incomplete: "...the collection of specimens in the (???) and the others of greater longevity...etc." Suggestions for style improvements: Introduction: The following sentence reads difficultly: “It is also known that chromatophores (to those) OF cells present in the animal integumentary system containing pigments, (and these cells) respond to hormonal factors and/or neuronal (response to stimuli) factors 2 .” Please, delete the words in parentheses and add "OF". Last sentence of paragraph 1: "insects are at (an) advantage...because they ABSORB SOLAR LIGHT MORE EFFICIENTLY, SO THAT THEY warm up more quickly." Please, delete the words in parentheses and add the capitalized part for more accuracy. Paragraph 3: ...by the observation REPORTED in the literature (3-) etc. Thermal transition: The temperature was set to 25C (rather than "was applied")...were exposed to DECREASING temperatures of 45C, 40C, etc. Results and Discussions: ...at 45C and 40C there are no (huge) SIGNIFICANT differences etc. At 35C chromatophores of the wings become light brown, intensifyING their color (rather than "intensify"). 