In general, the article partially meets the standards of a scientific research paper. 1. Abstract: The abstract gives the reader a general and clear idea about the article. It could be good if the author highlights the used statistical techniques. 2. Jel classification could be added. 3. Introduction: The introduction is not enough as an introduction to a scientific research paper. It should be longer to give the reader an idea about the considered variables. 4. Literature review: It is missed in this article, and that is not accepted. Any research article should contain in addition to the introduction, a good theoretical part to show the author's level of literary knowledge about the topic. Otherwise, in case there are not enough pages, the author can write a comprehensive and coherent introduction to express the theoretical background of the article, in addition, to mention the objectives of the article at the end of the introduction. 5. Methods: The methodology part was discussed well. Research design: The time horizon and measurements have been discussed. Samples and sampling techniques have been discussed. It is much better to mention clearly if the producers are the consumers themselves. Data collection and data sources have been mentioned. Data analysis, the author can provide some tables to show the outcomes of the analysis especially for descriptive analysis by SPSS. 6. Results and conclusion: As a paragraph, it had discussed well, the author can compare his results to other studies which had done before by other authors and consider the same geographic areas or compare them to other areas in the same country, to show if the consumption trends are the same or changed by time. 7. References: The list of references should reorganize again. Some references used in the text of the article but not mentioned in the references list, on the other hand, some references mentioned in the final list but not used in the text of the article. Summary: Accepted after doing major corrections. It should send back to the reviewer again after doing the recommended modifications. 