Although the paper has been improved, there are still important shortcomings in the abstract, introduction, description of the methods and the discussion. I completely agree with Ian White. The statement in the abstract: “However, conventional clinical trials are designed to find differences with the implicit assumption that the effect is the same in all patients within the eligibility criteria”, is definitely not true. Trials are designed to answer questions about average effects in populations: what would happen if everyone would be treated with treatment A versus treatment B. This does not imply that the effect in all subgroups or in all individuals is the same. This also apply to the discussion with statements like "Evidence-Based Medicine operates under the paradigm of a constant effect assumption" The description of the methods is insufficient. The main fitted model has two random effect S_i and e_i, and the model is therefore not estimable. You do not clearly state that you circumvent this problem by estimating the variance nu_i from the sample sizes in the two trial arms. The parameter mu is not the average variance ratio, it is the logarithm of it. And the notation should be s_i ~N(0, tau^2) instead of s_i ~N(0, tau), idem e_i ~N(0, nu_i^2). The definition of I^2 is not clear, it is unclear what nu^2 is. I am uncertain about the added value of using I^2. Why not just look at the size of tau, and use it to determine the prediction interval for the ratio of variances? It is unclear how the model to assess homoscedasticity over time is formulated. In the heading of Table 1 it is now explained how the distinction between increased variability, decreased variability and not changed is made. Please add this information to the methods section. I can see how the distinction between increased, decreased and not changed stability based on the F-tests is made (although the term masked tests is unknown to me). However the random model method is rather heuristic. What is meant by a “neglectable heterogeneity”? And what is meant by” studies are removed one by one until achieving an estimated value of tau, similar to the reference model”. Which reference model? What difference is considered to be similar? The presentation of the results is in some parts unclear. e.g. “The estimated baseline heterogeneity”. I assume that this is the estimate of the between study variance of an analysis with the log variance-ratio at baseline as dependent variable. Is that correct? Page 6. “heterogeneity was almost doubled”. Do you mean that tau is doubled? Or tau^2? “The sensitive analysis” To which analysis do you refer here? The word “outcome” has multiple meanings. Sometimes it is the outcome variable, sometimes it is outcome variable, measured at end of the study. See for example the legend of Figure 3: the terms “variance of outcome” and “variance of outcome at baseline” are not very clear. Please reword. In the discussion, you still equate heteroscedastic with precision medicine e.g. sentences like “a rough estimate of the proportion of interventions with different variability that would require more precise medicine”. Page 7 The part starting with "Considering the most" until "Provided there are no differences in means, the latter implies a larger proportion of “cured” patients, within the normality range.” I did not understand this part. Why do you assume that there are no differences in means? And what do you mean with normality range? Page 9: “First, the heterogeneity found in our analysis indicates that the observed lower variability in the experimental arm cannot be extrapolated to all individual studies.” This remark is unclear. 