Nur and colleagues report a computational study of the beta-globin gene mRNA structure based on secondary and tertiary structure prediction. However, the prediction is not reliable enough to fully support the conclusion. Therefore, I suggest to keep the paper in record but not use it as a conclusion. Major and minor comments are listed here: Major comments: The paper is fully based on computational prediction. However, both the prediction approaches are not yet accurate enough to draw a conclusion without experimental validation. For secondary structure prediction, MFE (RNAfold) only consider the cis-Watson-Crick base pair situation without pseudoknots. However, different sequences that can be aligned together are expected to have the same secondary structure. Using the sequence co-evolution information may further improve secondary structure prediction accuracy. That is why ViennaRNA has RNAalifold to predict 2D structure from sequence alignment. Considering the modeling only includes point mutations, one cannot rule out the possibility that both wild type and mutants use the same structure but the mutation point use a base pair conformation different from cis-Watson-Crick (e.g., WC-sugar). In this case, the main topology of the structure should stay the same. The authors show the mutation in Figure 1, but do not show the positions paired with the mutational position. According to the 2D structures predicted in Figure 3, the proposed structures are not likely to fold in 3D. To improve, I suggest: 1) Predict the existence of Pseudoknots; 2) Check if the mutants can use the same 2D structure according to the base pair; 3) Use multiple sequence alignment (MSA) to predict secondary structure and show the co-evolution. For 3D structure prediction, it is difficult for an automatic method (e.g., RNAComposer) to handle a structure of more than 150nt without a good secondary structure assignment. This paper tries to use RNAComposer to predict a structure of 350nt. This is beyond the current capability of automatic prediction. From Figure 5, we can find severe atomic clashes, which are not expected in 3D structures. To improve, I suggest to focus on the mutational region, use the MSA-based 2D prediction result to predict 3D structure, and use energy minimization (e.g., Rosetta) to optimize the 3D structure. However, the only information from 3D structure prediction is the feasibility of the 2D structure rather than the functional inferences expected from this paper. Minor comments: The free energy calculation is not part of this paper. The authors should just cite the related publications rather introducing the ideas. The 3D structure prediction method should be spelt as "RNAComposer ". Figure 1B should include the base pair information (2D structure) of the alignment. The y-axis of Figure 2 needs more explanation. Figure 4 needs more explanation. Its meaning is not clear. It could be good to share the predicted structure information to increase the reproducibility. 