The paper entitled "Pan-cancer repository of validated natural and cryptic mRNA splicing mutations" by Shirley, Mucaki and Rogan describes an extensive analysis of pancancer somatic variants in samples of the TCGA dataset to identify mutations that affect splicing. To this aim, the authors combine the methods that they previously developed to predict mutations affecting splicing, with a validation of their effect on matched mRNA data from TCGA. The study is technically sound and follows a line of investigation that has been a long standing interest of the authors. Despite this, I have a number of comments that hopefully will help strengthen the study: The authors write that their IT-based framework to predict slicing variants "has been validated in multiple studies" and they refer to numerous papers. However, in all of them they act as co-authors, showing that their method is mostly used by themselves and their collaborators. This is not necessarily a problem, but it would certainly strengthen the study if the authors would perform a comparative assessment of their performance with other available methods to predict splicing mutations, for example those in dbNSFP. This will provide a less biased interpretation of the final results. Somehow related to the previous point, the authors mention that their results "contrast with another TCGA study that investigated alternative mRNA splicing". In my opinion this point should be further explored: what are the main differences and what is the extent of overlap in concordant predictions? What are the possible reasons for these differences? This is important because the cited paper in Cancer Cell analysed the same dataset of mutations. The authors notice that the number of variants which activate cryptic splicing exceed the number reported in a recently published study in Cell Reports. Similarly to before: what is the extent of overlap between the two datasets? Stating that a dataset is bigger than another one is not necessarily an indication that it is better. The authors validate ~27% of predicted splicing variants using the mRNA data (351k validated of the 1.2M predicted). This is a surprisingly low fraction. Later in the manuscript, the authors briefly discuss about the possible reasons of such a discrepancy. One of them is the possible occurrence of nonsense mediate decay which will not confirm the mutations because no or very few reads will be detected. However, as the authors acknowledge, the absence of supporting reads only in mutated individuals as compared to the presence of reads in WT sample would be a strong indication of the effective role of these mutations on splicing. This can be quantified from the same RNAseq data and in my opinion should be done. In general, the authors seem to exclude that their prediction method could lead to false positives. Rather they justify the poor overlap with limitations of mRNA detection. If this is the case, this should be quantified and probably a comparison with other prediction methods could help. Of the 351k mutations with an effect on splicing supported by RNA data, only 35 affect CGC genes. Is this only a subset of mutations affecting driver genes or is it the complete list? In the former case, I would suggest that the authors provide the full list as supplementary data. In the latter case, the authors should discuss the implication of such a low number. Considering that there are 700 CGC genes, does it mean that aberrant slicing is very rarely a driver event? Is the overwhelming majority of splicing variants passenger? 