The authors report on the many activities conducted under the umbrella of the BioHackathons 2013 and 2014. While there are recurring intellectual threads, most notably a focus on support for RDF, the manuscript is really a collection of reports of the progress made by each of the different subgroups involved in these events. I admire the work that must have gone into fitting each of these individual efforts into a coherent narrative, and this is a very useful historical document of those efforts. I do have some suggestions below where I think the manuscript could be improved - primarily to help developers and users put this work into context. Most of these are are not critical flaws, however, and I would leave to the authors' discretion how they wish to respond to these comments and suggestions. The one issue I think is critical for acceptance is the explanation of Figure 1 (see below). One recurring issue is the ambiguity of the reference time frame, both for the starting and stopping points of the work described. This is important since the report covers work that took place 5-6 years in the past, a long time ago in the world of bioinformatics. With respect to the starting point, the use of present tense makes it unclear in many passages whether the authors are describing the state of software as of 2013/2014, or today. To avoid confusion, I would recommend either fixing the relevant passages throughout (I list some of them below) or clarify upfront that the state of affairs of the software tools and resources described is as of 5-6 years ago, which in many cases will no longer be accurate. Regarding the stopping point, it is not clear if the progress described reflects what was accomplished during the event, up until the next biohackathon, or some other time point. This is perhaps a larger ask, but I wanted as a reader to know where these efforts stand today. Putting the work in context of the progress since would take a weakness of the manuscript (ie. reporting on older work) and turn it into a virtue (evaluating the impact each of these efforts had on their fields with the benefits of a few years of hindsight). Perhaps this could be summarized by a "where-are-they-now" table. In addition, there are a number of claims made, particularly regarding tool performance, without supporting evidence provided. In some cases, these might be from subjective assessments, which is fine as long as that is clear. But subjective or not, the lack of evidence makes the claims difficult to evaluate. I point some of these passages out below. COMMENTS BY SECTION: ABSTRACT "an exciting and unanticipatable variety of real world applications in coming years" - this is an odd statement given that several years have already passed. INTRODUCTION "To fully utilize open data in life sciences, semantic interoperability and standardization of data are required to allow innovative development of applications" - while it may be true, this claim is not directly supported. A weaker claim might be more justified. IMPROVEMENT AND UTILIZATION OF RDF DATA IN LIFE SCIENCES" "RDF ... is becoming widely accepted" - can the other cite support for this claim? GENOMIC INFORMATION FIGURE 1 - needs further explanation via a caption and/or legend. What do the colors represent, and the different types of lines? The use of URLs deserves explanation - especially the one to a google doc. IDENTIFIERS FOR SEQUENCES AND ANNOTATIONS I couldn't quite figure out what I was supposed to understand about the conceptual differences among the identifier models. TOOLS FOR SEMANTIC GENOME DATA "To support these efforts we have collaborated with DDBJ, UniProt, and the EBI RDF group to develop ontologies for representing locations and annotations of genome sequences and used these developments for all prokaryotic genomes and, later, eukaryotic genomes" - this passage seems redundant with the descriptions above. Also, the use of "we" here and in next sentence appears to be legacy text referring to only the TogoGenome participants. JBrowse on RDF was comparable in performance to typical RDB back-end - it would be good if the authors could support that claim with some of the data obtained. The sections "Visualization of semantic annotations in JBrowse" and "TogoGenome" are somewhat redundant with each other. I recommend merging. INTERMINE "An area that needs work, and is receiving attention," - is this still true 5-6 years later? "Implement a simple adaptor allowing, as described above, JBrowse to request data directly from InterMine RESTful web services" If this was actually described above, I missed it. TEXT-MINING I would personally find a screenshot of the text annotations in JBrowse much more interesting than the current Figure 2, which is exactly what you'd expect it to look like and doesn't provide evidence for the *performance* claim above. PROTEIN STRUCTURES AND EXPRESSIONS "the Worldwide Protein Data Bank (wwPDB) will abolish the conventional PDB format" and "wwPDB will start assigning protein chain identifiers, which will also be encoded as URIs in the wwPDB/RDF." 2016 is three years ago, so if this has already been accomplished, this should be in past tense. "Recently, the mzTab data exchange format was introduced" - recently meaning 2014? "the "omics" group in the BioHackathon 2014 made the first steps towards the development of the ProteomeXchange Interface (PROXI) for protein expression data exchange59." - my impression is that this effort has evolved considerably since 2014. If true, it would be valuable to put this into context for how the technology is used currently by the ProteomeXchange consortium. "integration of the two corpora, CRAFT and GRO, into PubAnnotation, demonstrated significantly improved utility" - is there supporting evidence for this claim? "Access to consistent, high-quality metadata is critical to finding, understanding, and reusing scientific data - this is the core of the FAIR Data Principles83." - it's odd to reference this manifesto of principles that postdates the hackathons by at least two years. This would be less awkward if there was a table or section devoted to developments *since* the 2014, i.e. "where are they now?" DATASET METADATA "The resulting guidelines, finalized under the auspices of the W3C Semantic Web for Health Care and the Life Sciences Interest Group (HCLSIG)" - there's no link or citation given here. The 4th pgph redundantly includes the same coverage list: "..elements of description, identification, versioning, attribution, provenance, and content summarization." "The group is currently evaluating the specification with implementations for dataset registries such as Identifiers.org50 and IntegBio Database Catalog, as well as Linked Data repositories such as Bio2RDF84." - update on progress since 2014? W2C link appears to be dead, but a paper was published in 2016. I get the impression that there was further work on this post-hackathon not mentioned here. VOID FOR INTERMINE AND UNIPROT The relationship of prior work on VOiD (if any) to the outcome from the hackathon is not clear to me. "there are now InterMine databases available" - is "now" as of writing, or as of the time of the hackathon? The VoID file [for Uniprot] is updated every release in synchrony with our production" - replace use of "our" which I presume refers to the Uniprot team and not to the collaborative team of authors here. SCHEMAORG AND RDFA FOR BIOLOGICAL DATABASES what's "NIBIOHN"? NANOPUBLICATIONS A more explicit explanation of the relationship between NANOPUBLICATIONS and the overarching topic of PROVENANCE would be helpful. "n-quads" - please explain or provide a reference. "At the time of writing, YummyData has collected data for about a year" - what is the time of writing? CONCLUSION "The NBDC RDF portal launched in 2015 complements the above resources..." - again, this would be appropriate for a "where are they now?" section. "will be addressed in the upcoming BioHackathons" - they have been held annually since 2014, so it is odd to not mention what *was* addressed in subsequent events. And I hope those reports will be published in a more timely fashion! 