In this paper, the authors discuss the notion of belief and its explanatory role across a wide range of academic disciplines. These include, for example, psychology, religion, philosophy, anthropology, and cognitive neuroscience. The authors aim to demonstrate that believing is a core function of the brain that guides much of our behaviour. They also argue that these cognitive processes operate in narratives and rituals across both religious and secular contexts. To address these goals, the authors provide a brief, if sometimes dense, discussion of belief, which includes the history and philosophy of the concept, the role of belief in anthropology and neuroscience, and belief’s more specific functions in religion, rituals, and narratives. The paper provides an interesting contribution to a historically neglected area of psychology and cognitive neuroscience, namely understanding and characterising the nature of belief. That said, the paper is perhaps too ambitious in scope, covering many different topics – including a conceptual history of belief and the role of belief in areas such as philosophy, religion, anthropology, perception, and cognitive neuroscience. Consequently, the paper at times appears a little unfocused and difficult to follow. It could be improved by having a clearer structure and possibly outlining how the various sections contribute to the central goals of the paper. Given the breadth of coverage, many of the topics cannot be covered in the detail they deserve. One could argue, given the authors’ central argument, that much of the historical review – including the sections on the history and philosophy of belief – could be omitted without detracting from the main purpose of the paper. The main focus of the paper remains the anthropology and cognitive neuroscience of belief. The authors here outline four levels of explanation for understanding belief – hermeneutic, linguistic, behavioural, and neurophysiological. These levels of explanation are not, however, always fully justified. It is not clear, for example, what the distinction between the hermeneutic and linguistic is and also whether the behavioural level can be necessarily grouped with the cognitive. It also remains unclear how the levels of explanation inform the rest of the paper. In one particular section, the authors discuss the importance of perception. Specifically, they note “ To understand the process of believing, it is essential to understand how people attribute personal meaning to specific sensory perceptions ” (p. 4). The authors then provide a description of the processes involved in perceiving the physical characteristics of stimuli and the processes involved in attributing affective value and meaning. This important section could be expanded to include more evidence in support of the claims being put forward. In its current form, it is unclear how much is intended as a description of fact and how much involves the authors’ own theoretical take. The section on neuroscience is also important to the authors’ central thesis. The authors outline a model of believing as involving different brain regions. As this is possibly one of the most novel and significant parts of the paper, this section would benefit by being expanded to provide more details. For example, the authors make several claims about the role of different brain regions for selective cognitive functions (e.g., they suggest that valuation of perceived objections and attributions involves the medial frontal cortex) and then cite papers without much further explanation. The authors should engage more with the literature that they cite and explain how the research support their claims. They could also outline their model more clearly and how it relates to belief overall (rather than just sub-component processes, like the valuation of percepts). A further issue in these sections that could be addressed is that it is not clear whether the authors reach their overall goal. They state in the paper’s abstract: “ We present evidence suggesting that believing is a human brain function which results in probabilistic representations with attributes of personal meaning and value and thereby guides individuals’ behaviour ” (p. 1). However, much of these sections on perception and neuroscience is descriptive and, as already noted, relies on citations of previous papers without further explanation of how these support their claims. The authors could more specifically highlight what they consider to be evidence for their model and discuss more critically how it supports their account. In the final section, the authors turn to belief systems in religion, rituals, and narratives. The authors here suggest that similar belief processes are common across both religious and secular contexts. It is not clear, however, why people would doubt this idea in the first place. The discussion, like other sections, contains some interesting material, but again is limited somewhat by selective engagement with existing literature. For example, the authors suggest “ because ‘religion’ is not one thing but many, it is better to talk about specific religions, because almost no statement about what ‘religion’ does will hold for all of them ” (p. 6), then appear to make general claims about religion, religiosity, and religious experience. Apart from this apparent inconsistency, it is unclear whether this is a consensus opinion by all religious scholars. Other minor examples include claims about how “ humans are born with an ‘implicit religiosity’ ” (p. 6) and that rituals “ constitute the experience and knowledge and, thereby, the belief systems of individuals from childhood onwards ” (p. 7), where it is similarly unclear how established these claims are. In sum, the paper addresses an important and timely topic, and presents proposals for a potentially novel perceptual/neural model for understanding belief. The paper, however, would benefit by focusing and clarifying its underlying purpose and reducing the breadth of coverage. The paper could also be improved by discussing the evidence and arguments supporting their central claims in greater detail.