Auslander and colleagues present a comparative sequence analysis of alpha-papillomavirus genomes. They identify and analyze a short 30-60 nucleotide sequence insert between the E6 and E7 open-reading frames that encodes the PDZ domain in the high-oncogenic risk types and propose that this region also contains sequences that enable coupled termination and reinitiation to facilitate translation of the E6 and E7 proteins. This is an intriguing observation as HPVs are associated with ~5% human cancers and understanding how the viral oncoproteins are expressed is crucial. The proposed hypothesis should be testable and indicates that experiments in which the E6 PDZ domain is mutated in the background of the viral genome should be interpreted carefully. A weakness of the manuscript is that current literature and data sources are not used/and or cited and the data-set used seems incomplete. For example, there are currently 198 officially numbered HPV types, and 442 HPV types in total. A curated data-set of genome sequences for all papillomavirus types sequenced to date is available at PaVE . There are also many recent publications that describe analyses of PV evolution, oncogenicity and E6 PDZ domains that should be cited. There are sequences available for 64 alpha HPV types that have been officially named by the HPV Reference Centre, yet only the genomic sequences of 44 types are listed in Figure S1. The data-set contains many isolates for some HPV types (e.g. 299 isolates of HPV16) yet almost no representatives of the species alpha 2, 4 and 8. The E6 protein of HPV40 (alpha-8) has been proposed to contain an ancestral alpha PDZ domain and so the genomes of the alpha-8 species should be closely examined/discussed. Nevertheless, a nucleotide alignment of all 64 alpha-PV nucleotide sequences from PaVE does support the authors’ conclusions that only HR species-5, 6 7, 9 and 11 contain an insert separating the E6 and E7 ORFs. Minor issues: In Figure 1A, alpha-11 is listed in the key for both LR and HR. In Figure 2, the resolution of the sequence images should be improved. The legend for 2B should make it clear that these are just the C-terminal sequences of the E6 polypeptides. In 2C, the symbols and colored blocks should be described. In Figure 3A, the color/bold identification of the motifs and TAA/AUG are not easily visualized in the pdf. Perhaps highlight TAA/AUG by underlines or boxes. Labelling the groups of different HPV species along the left would also be helpful. In 3B, the labelling of the 18S rRNA hairpin (orange text) is confusing. What is 26es7? In Figure S4: clarify in the legend that this is the E6-E7 RNA sequence for each HPV type shown. The reference for IRES (54), I think should be 53. 