Mizuseki and colleagues provide a description of 442 datasets (more than 200 hours) of hippocampal in vivo recordings. These datasets provide cell classification as well as the raw data, in case users wish to return to the high-sample traces and re-cluster the data on their own. The results of different analyses from the database have been published, although all analysis possibilities have not been exhausted. While this is an atypical review to write (as any suggestions on improvement to the database seem to be akin to looking a gift horse in the mouth), I am hoping the authors can discuss the ramifications of providing such an extensive database. While any database has limitations (e.g. sometimes determining the EEG units is a bit of an exercise with these data in the present format), it is perhaps more advantageous and constructive to discuss what the community can do to make the most use of it. As the authors state Community-driven data sharing may offer cross-validation of findings, refinement of interpretations and facilitate discoveries and the challenges are now directed to those who are interested in participating in future analyses. In hopes that this will set-forth a new era of data-sharing, I hope that the authors can discuss their open database in a manner that parallels Giorgio Ascolis discussion on sharing neural reconstruction files (Ascoli, 2006) . It should be noted that I do not expect the authors to have comprehensive answers to each of my comments below, but it might be beneficial if they would provide some initial thoughts to seed further discussion. Some points that the authors may wish to discuss include: One barrier to sharing data is the fear of being scooped (Ascoli, 2006). For example, scientific progress will be dramatically increased through parallel (and hopefully, collaborative) data analysis. Are the authors concerned about being ? What about a group of researchers unknowingly using the database to conduct an analysis that is also a students PhD project? This hypothetical student may still be acquiring the expertise to keep pace with more seasoned researchers. An often unspoken resistance to the sharing data is born out of concern for criticisms and mistakes (Ascoli, 2006). This is an unprecedented event that Mizuseki and colleagues have set forth, by providing a comprehensive catalog of data in an unabashed manner. The first point I want to touch upon is the level of raw exposure in releasing data. I have never met a neuroscientist who believes that anyone else couldve conducted their analyses better than themselves (save a modest few), but to find those who believe that the authors t look for the right thing could make up a small battalion. Mizuseki and colleagues invite critics to their doorstep. Perhaps this is more similar to posing nude as a model for artist. By placing data online, it comes with judgment and the potential to be proved wrong. What do the authors believe the convention is if others follow in their footsteps? For example, if group A shares their database after publishing their results, group B downloads and analyzes their data in new light and finds the opposite results, what is the appropriate manner in handling the situation? The self-correction aspect of science is also accelerated when data is openly-shared. It remains to be seen how situations like this should/will be handled. There is also a chance for the data to be used in order to stifle or impede publication when the result is dubious. That is, should it be considered for a reviewer to use the same database and conduct a similar analysis with results that contradict a submitted manuscripts results? A tactic such as this only seems appropriate in open-review formats. A final barrier to sharing digital reconstructions relates to the reluctance to lose or give a competitive edge (Ascoli, 2006). The release of this immense database will surely be the stronghold of many new assistant professors who are still in the initial stages of setting up a physiology laboratory. Moreover, I can see these data being used in laboratories that are heavily analysis driven and limited in their own capacity for high-density in vivo recordings. This increase in the number of people analyzing data invites competitors for the authors as well as their neutral peers. Sheer logic dictates that the authors are not afraid of competition (otherwise, why share the data? Please note that I am a cynic and have been taught by many reviewers that scientific altruism is as abundant as snarks and unicorns). Why should researchers not be afraid of others using this database to compete? Is it believed that these data will be used for collaboration? What can be done to emphasize collaboration across laboratories when using the database? How is authorship handled when multiple groups use these data? If I spend my time analyzing these data, only to have it published under a group project name (similar to Sir William Timothy Gowers Polymath project ), do I put it on my CV? The paper explicitly states that large downloads are prohibited. Does this mean that I should not download all the data? Is it OK to use these data for a class project? If so, is it more appropriate for the professor to disseminate it to the students or should the students make their own CRCNS account? Finally, more of an afterthought but along similar lines: should there be a collaborative processing code library that should be developed and maintained in parallel with the use of these data (similar to GitHub or SourceForge)? I absolutely do not expect the authors to have complete answers to these questions nor should they carry the sole responsibility of determining the general conventions of what constitutes use versus misuse, but I do think that it is worth hearing their general thoughts. As this is the largest and most comprehensive database of in vivo hippocampal and entorhinal physiology to become available to the general scientific community, there will be an immense ramification. Scientific replication/external validation is an immediate and positive application of this database. As I have cited Timothy Gowers above, I think it would be best to leave off with his opinion of open data-sharing and collaboration: It feels as though this process is to normal research as driving is to pushing a car. ( http://gowers.wordpress.com/2009/02/01/questions-of-procedure/ ). As a field we have the opportunity to compete or collaborate. I hope that these data facilitate cross-laboratory collaboration where two groups are reticent to share their own data. For those that are interested in embracing the collaborative spirit, the CRCNS website also has a section where ideas and potential collaborations can be discussed. Finally, I applaud the authors for this unprecedented act of scientific altruism. I hope this will be a platform that accelerates our understanding of the entorhinal-hippocampal circuitry through collaboration. 