The authors conducted a secondary analysis on the data originated from the Axshya SAMVAD study aiming to describe the proportion of patients with smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis labelled as "new" (regarding antibiotic treatment), but that actually have had tuberculosis before. The research question is of public health importance, it is not widely reported in the literature, and makes this short article interesting to the literature. The authors should be commended. I have some comments below aiming to improve the manuscript. The authors should clarify to the reader on abstract that "new" refers to previous TB treatment for at least 30 consecutive days. The authors should revise the entire manuscript, particularly Abstract and Introduction, to clarify about what "missclassification" refers to. Misclassification is an epidemiological term, but it can refer to different variables depending on the context. And during the read, it became clear only after going to the results section. Example: (abstract) "reported 11% misclassification among ‘new’ patients". Maybe the authors could rephrase as:"reported that 11% of patients with tuberculosis were misclassified as new patients regarding previous treatment history" or "reported that 11% of patients with tuberculosis were misclassified as new patients despite their previous TB treatment" or "reported that 11% of patients with tuberculosis were misclassified as new patients despite previously treated" Regarding the inclusion criteria, did it only include adults? Regarding Table 1: Why did you categorize age? And why in only 3 categories merging different age profile? For instance, the range 15-44 covers different population. You might have loose power and contrast. You should use age as continuous and/or open the category 15-44. Do the authors have converge problems with the log-binomial model? The authors should re-phrase their statements on the prevalence ratio associated factors on Table 1. For instance, it is clear that Residence (rural/urban) is an important factor, with a big point estimate, but wide confidence interval (6.4 (0.9, 48.2)). Likely with a bigger sample size and/or higher number of events, you would have better precision and would achieve "significancy" or "no include 1". How is it possible to have such low prevalence of positive HIV status in a vulnerable population? How was the HIV testing coverage? The discussion section must be improved: Although recommended and ideal, DST will not be available for all. Even if available, the previous history treatment is fundamental. The authors should propose solutions for the problem, such as linkage deduplication, linked records form the national system, etc. Please, better discuss the potential selection bias and representative of the included population regarding India population. Minor: Maybe better to use the notation of 95% CI rather than 0.95 Figure 1. I think the first box at left has a wrong "the" : as AN error Change gender to sex 