The authors present a straightforward account of an important and growing health burden in Thailand, hypertension. Given the increasing prevalence of this condition and the associated increased risk for other chronic diseases this paper is timely and relevant. The identification of socio-economic drivers is particularly important in a country such as Thailand which has experienced rapid economic growth and change in the recent past. I have a few comments as follows: Why are the authors using 2005 to 2007 data? These data are now more than 10 years old and given the rapid rise in HT prevalence described by the authors the most up to date data are important. The results section of the abstract needs to be rewritten. It describes associations between for example income and education and HT but does not describe the direction of the association. That is, high income or low income that associates with hypertension. In the Methods HT is measured by self-report of a physician diagnosis. Has any validation analysis been done to assess the accuracy of this type of self report? Also this leaves the strong possibility of undiagnosed HT being prevalent in the community. This cannot be measured using this study design but it should be mentioned in the limitation section of the discussion. Also in the Methods the authors describe a sample of approximately 16,000 people in each study year. What proportion is this of the total study population after exclusions were made. Was there any non-response or refusal to participate rate that should be reported? In the bivariate analysis variables were included where their association with hypertension was significant at p0.25. Why was this value chosen? The Discussion section of this paper needs some work. a. The authors discuss education and income as indicators of socio-economic status and observe that low education and low income are associated with HT risk. This is the case in contemporary Thailand. It may be worth discussing here though that this is a modern phenomenon and the result of health and epidemiological transitions. Previously in most low and middle income countries chronic disease risk including obesity and HT was concentrated in the higher socio-economic groups. b. There is a little bit of a contradiction between the education/ income – HT association and the geographic association which needs some more consideration. Incomes are generally higher in urban areas which should according to the SES hypothesis mean that they have the lowest levels of HT. However in this study, the Northeast, the poorest area of the country has the lower prevalence. As the authors suggest this could be because in Isan the undiagnosed HT may be higher. But there also may be different directions of association between income and HT depending where you live. I am not sure there will be a clear answer to this but it deserves some discussion in the paper. 