In this short study, the authors have studied anti-pathogenic potential of P. gujava leaves, which is an important plant in traditional medicine. It is good to see that among test bacteria, authors have included multi-drug resistant/beta-lactamase producing gram-negative bacteria, as it is difficult to find 'hits' against gram-negative bacteria in general. Their idea of comparing the same leaf extract prepared using different extraction methods also seems to be logical, as choice of the most appropriate extraction method is very much crucial while assessing the biological activity of plant extracts. It can have a significant bearing on the final results. They have found MAE to be a good method. MAE has earlier been also reported by various groups to be an efficient extraction method, particularly for fast extraction of plant phenolic compounds. Further, they have used the worm C. elegans as the model host for their test pathogens. This worm is a good choice for generating useful preliminary data on in vivo efficacy of potential anti-pathogenic extracts/ formulations. In the case of some bacteria like P. aeruginosa , there is an overlap among virulence factors (e.g. pyocyanin) responsible for damaging the human cells and those killing the worm. They have also compared the GLE prepared in water vs. that prepared in water + alcohol, and have emphasized the importance of choice of most appropriate extraction method and solvent for preparation of bioactive extracts. Their in vitro experiments have provided a good clue on one of the possible ways regarding mode of action of GLE i.e. QS interference. QS in recent years has been reported by many research groups to be a target worth pursuing, in search of novel antimicrobials. Raw data submitted by the authors also seem to be in good shape, and in line with their findings reported in main text. Overall, this seems to be an okay study, and can be approved for indexing without any major changes. However, in future the authors should try to come up with a full-length report describing molecular mechanisms at the genome/transcriptome level explaining the mechanistic basis of GLE's anti-pathogenic efficacy. 