This article aims to report the current state of knowledge and interest in disaster preparedness among different tiers of hospital staff and training levels in order to identify potential barriers and areas for further training. There is nothing new about the conclusion. "At the hospital level staff are unprepared for a disaster and are not comfortable leading a disaster initiative, yet they are interested in further training". This has been reported earlier and does not add anything new to the global knowledge. What is new in your report? Have you compared your data with other hospitals? Which are the potential barriers for further training? Point them out and discuss. Different tiers of hospital staff cannot be limited to attending physicians, subspecialty fellows, residents, nurses, physician assistants, respiratory therapists and their respective students. Why and how were these participants chosen? Disaster preparedness knowledge consists of many factors such as knowledge about risk and vulnerability analysis, organizational belonging, how to initiate a disaster plan etc. Have you investigated all components included in disaster preparedness? Simply asked how many have read the disaster plan? Training is one way to standardize the multidisciplinary management of and preparedness for a disaster or a major incident. The authors write about different type of training. What kinds of training are these? Are these evaluated? Do we know how much and how long training is needed? What is acceptable preparedness? I am not sure whether you talk about individual training or multidisciplinary training? Training on a "patient" or mass casualty training. When using surveys, you may end up with some problems. What are the pros and cons with your method? One of the conclusions is that incorporating lectures, accompanied by scenario-based disaster preparedness, should be considered as an integral part of medical training. In which perspective and why? How about other healthcare categories? Do you mean medical training at medical school or at the hospital? The lack of availability of training remains a large deterrent. What is lacking; time for training, economic support for training, or a validated training model? I have read this submission. I believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above.