 treeWidget is a nice feature full JavaScript tree viewer. This is a relatively straightforward announcement of the tool and I see no major problems. Below are some comments for the authors consideration. Major The discussion of the license is not in the manuscript. I believe it is Apache 2.0 but it would be good to mention that. Also, I understand it is open source but I might also mention that clearly as well. I feel like the author overstates the originality of the library. There is mention of jsphyloSVG which of course is a modular tree visualisation component (negating the last sentence of the introduction). Furthermore, there are others. In particular, Roderic Page has been developing a number of different options that are simple and perhaps not as feature-full but serve to have trees in the BioNames project (http://bionames.org /). In fact, this has been around for a few years and available for experimentation (here is one of the early posts about this http://iphylo.blogspot.com/2012/12/viewing-phylogenies-on-web-javascript.htm l ). Of course not all of these would be considered more than experimentation, but I would note that it has been an area of long discussion in the bioinformatics field for a while now. The documentation is pretty difficult to navigate. There is a fair bit of (also unclear at this point) documentation of the BioJS library with some specific language that is not well defined (what is the registry for exactly?). If treeWidget is in fact going to be particularly useful for web developers to drop into a website, I would suggest making a tutorial specifically designed to show a developer how to incorporate just treeWidget and not the entire BioJS package. I was unable to generate dynamic examples. This is related to the above comment, but I would generate some more examples and tutorials that explore these options in more detail. Please distribute the code used to make the figures as part of the distribution or in another package. That would be helpful. Minor I feel like a few edits would improve the manuscript quite a bit. For example, in the introduction, you state: " Reconstructing a phylogenetic tree is a routine task in most evolutionary-related analyses and a number of databases exist containing precomputed phylogenetic trees (e.g. TreeFam 1 , Ensembl Gene Trees 2 , Panther 3 ). These reconstructed trees can vary considerably in the number of gene/species shown and in their complexity " For the first sentence, I am not entirely sure I understand the relevance of the existence of precomputed trees and if that is important, this is an odd assortment of those resources. Of course there are many more. For the second sentence, I am not certain what you mean by varying in their complexity. I dont think you mean in their complexity in computational sense (but perhaps you do?). Because JSON is not often used in phylogenetics packages, I suspect that you will attract more users if you can take newick formats. You can see some examples using other packages here: http://bl.ocks.org/rdmpage/raw/4224658/ . 