In this manuscript, the authors address a few questions of considerable (and perennial) interest in the analysis of RNA-seq data. Specifically, they provide evidence that, using available methods (e.g. DESeq2 / edgeR), assessing differential expression at the gene-level (DGE) is more robust than at the transcript level (DTE). Further, they convincingly argue that estimating abundance at the level of transcripts, and then aggregating these abundances to the gene level leads to improved estimation of differential gene expression. They demonstrate that one of the major factors in this improved estimation is the availability of a sample-specific feature length for each gene (derived from the abundance-weighted length of the expressed transcripts of this gene), which is not possible to obtain with any fixed gene model used by count-based methods. Finally, the authors argue that much of the analysis of interest at the transcript level does not actually require differential transcript expression testing, but rather can be inferred from a combination of DGE and differential transcript usage (DTU); this is an interesting proposition that merits further discussion and analysis. Overall, this is a well-written paper, with extensive and compelling supplementary and supporting data, that addresses a ubiquitous analysis task involving RNA-seq. It should be of broad interest to the community and makes a valuable contribution. The accompanying software, tximport , is user-friendly and makes it easy to apply the type of analysis recommended herein; it too should be widely useful. Major comments: It would be very useful to provide the equations used for calculating each of the abundance measured considered directly. Section 4 of the supplementary information is useful to this end, but the reader still has to search a bit to see exactly how each metric is computed (though the fantastic R-Markdown included with the figures means that these computations can be found explicitly). Similarly, it would be useful to the reader to provide a description, in prose, of how specific experiments were performed (again, the reproducible nature of most of these experiments makes tracking down this information possible, but sometimes time-consuming). For example, how, precisely, was removal of transcripts handled at the level of the genome annotation? If a transcript consists only of constitutive exons, were all of those exons retained in the genome annotation used for STAR + featureCounts, while the transcript was removed in the Salmon index? The result that transcript-level abundance estimation is more sensitive to the removal of transcripts than gene-level abundance estimation — this seems intuitive. However, I agree with Dr. Floor’s suggestion that: "The assertion that “simple counts tended to show a high degree of robustness against incompleteness of the annotation catalog, as evidenced from estimation errors after first removing (at random) 20% of the transcripts” seems misleading since Salmon-derived gene-level abundances actually show a higher Spearman correlation than count-derived gene-level abundances when subjected to removing a random 20% of transcripts.” I would suggest rewording this sentence, as the main result seems to be that gene-level analysis is more robust to an incomplete annotation than transcript-level analysis. Transcript-level abundance estimation followed by gene-level analysis seems to perform just as well (actually, better) than gene-level counting in this scenario. The experiments in the section “Incorporating transcript-level estimates leads to more accurate DGE results” suggests the (reasonable) interpretation that the main benefit of incorporating transcript-level abundance estimates when assessing DGE is a more accurate measure of the “feature” length of the gene. The authors state “ It is important to note that this improvement is entirely attributable to an improved handling of genes with changes in isoform composition between the conditions.” This is supported by the fact that using the abundance-weighted average transcript length (i.e. offsets) with counting based approaches improves the results substantially. However, one other place where transcript-level abundance estimates are useful in the context of DGE is when assessing the expression of paralogous genes. While most multi-mapping reads that derive from different isoforms of the same gene will be uniquely mappable at the level of the genome, and hence will be included in the counts for that gene, reads that map ambiguously among paralogs may not be. In such cases, count-based methods do not have a principled way of apportioning a read between the paralogs involved, and discarding multi-mapping reads may negatively affect estimation of the abundance of the paralogs, even at the gene level. While this case is likely much less common than mis-estimation of DGE as a result of DTU, it is certainly of biological interest. I would suggest adding an analysis, restricted to sets of paralogous genes, comparing how the different approaches perform in this case. This may help to highlight the importance of not only deriving appropriately weighted and sample-dependent lengths for genes, but also on resolving multi-mapping ambiguity that occurs between genomically distinct loci. The argument that most transcript-level analyses of interest may be addressed by looking at DGE in conjunction with DTU is an interesting one. It is certainly that case that not all tasks for which DTE is used actually require assessing differential expression at the transcript level. One issue with the DGE + DTU-based analysis which warrants further discussion in the manuscript is that I believe that this approach, too, would require correcting for multiple hypothesis testing. Specifically, one is testing both the DGE and the DTU hypotheses for each gene (or for a relevant subset of interest). The correction here is likely to be less harsh than in the case of assessing DTE, but is still worth discussing. Minor comments: As per Dr. Floor’s statement, Salmon (and Sailfish) also incorporate sequence-specific bias correction. Further, RSEM and Salmon (and a few other transcript-level abundance estimation tools) also incorporate the modeling of non-uniform fragment start position distributions. Of course, modeling a non-uniform start position distribution cannot overcome a complete lack of sampling in critical regions that might make determining transcript-level fragment assignment impossible, but it may help in properly apportioning an ambiguously-mapped fragment between transcripts depending on its relative position in each. One potential added source of variability here is that all Salmon estimates presented in the manuscript make use of Salmon’s quasi-mapping of reads, while the STAR + featureCount pipeline makes use of “traditional” alignments. This is the primary intended usage mode of Salmon, and absolutely does represent a “typical” pipeline for methods that avoid alignment (Salmon, Sailfish, kallisto). However, it would probably be best to mention this as a potential (though likely negligible) additional source of variability. In the discussion, the authors argue that “... it is therefore imperative to continue improving abundance estimation and inference methods applicable to individual transcripts, since misestimation can propagate to the gene level.” This is, of course, an important and valid suggestion. Another direction, on which it would be useful to get the authors’ thoughts and suggestions, is the development of differential expression tools (at either the transcript or gene level) that can make use of the variance estimates that some tools (like Salmon) can provide. To what extent might incorporating this information help control false positive rates and improve DTE or even DGE estimates?