This is a valuable description of the author’s experience with electronic laboratory notebook implementation within their department. There can be much value in educating the broader scientific community with respect to both their experience, the experience of those they surveyed and the available options for the researcher. The manuscript can be improved through better definition of terms and procedures related to the eLN with which the average laboratory scientist may not be familiar. Some examples follow: The title is appropriate and the abstract is a good summary. Introduction: The authors department pursued ISO 9001-certified laboratory quality management system. Could they expound on what this means, why they chose to pursue it and what it entails? What kind of resources did they devote to this and what did they hope to gain in return? “Why you will switch to an eLN” While suitably provocative, perhaps reword the section title as “Why you will switch to an eLN” seems to put the answer before the research is presented. Perhaps a more neutral statement might not appear that the conclusion has been pre-judged. In this section, the authors list several advantages to an eLN, including for example, that original data can be “easily integrated or linked to the eLN”. I assumed this meant a direct link to the eLN from the laboratory equipment, but later in this paragraph, the authors describe such a direct link as in the future. Could they then explain how data is easily integrated in the eLN? This question may be a major one for those used to using written notebooks where printouts are often physically attached. And if the data is not directly loaded into the eLN, how is it searchable? Are they scanning data through OCL or some other method? Some details would help the reader visualize how this system might help them. “What you need to get started” This is a well written section with a nice summary Table of the different options. If possible, it might be beneficial to discuss costs, perhaps within an order of magnitude for the different systems, although not if this is proprietary information. With respect to the surveys, while the heat maps are useful, it is not easy to follow whether there is a pattern to the different features. Perhaps an analysis using the highest/lowest scores graphically might be more helpful. It does not appear that any pitfalls were included in the questions. In the article, the authors later discuss possibility of loss of technical support, updates and possibility that the sponsor may go out of business. It is not clear that the survey included that possibility and how the respondents might have answered. I would consider this a modest weakness, but would like to hear some comment from the authors. “Obstacles and pitfalls” This is an excellent section that is most useful to the potential purchaser of a system and what are the minimum requirements that should be available should the support be terminated. This is an important section. Are there alternatives? For example, upfront costs and uncertain future of any wholly integrated platform are reasons that some labs have set up their own cloud based systems, although without all the functionality of an integrated system and without FDA certification, but the data can be easily referenced to physical lab books and as such provide some of the advantages of a whole integrated system. I have a question for the authors: Do they think that “electronic laboratory notebook manager” may become a new, sought after, position analogous to the “network manager” that is needed even though there are multiple commercial products available and standards widely accepted? Perhaps the pharma experience on how to manage a large, integrated eNL might be helpful here if the authors are aware of them, or perhaps they could describe how at the department whether the management of the eLN is the responsibility of specific individuals. “Conclusions and recommendations” This is a good summary of the authors’ thoughts. Perhaps a little harsh with the term “inertia of scientists”, there may be many reasons that scientists have not embraced eLN in their work, particularly if it is a small laboratory or one strapped for resources other than inertia. The authors only once mention the important issue of need for restrictions on alteration of data, and only in the Box 1. Perhaps some mention of this issue would be helpful in the text as well. The final list of recommendations is an excellent primer for exploring the possibility of an eLN. I commend the authors for their efforts to increase the visibility of such systems and providing their experience and perspective on this topic.