The two JavaScript components presented in this article facilitate the visualization of interaction networks in HTML5-enabled web browsers without requiring any third-party plugins like Flash. As they follow the BioJS standard, they are listed in the BioJS registry and should be interoperable with other components. The manuscript is comprehensibly written and, despite the length limitations, successfully introduces both tools and their basic usage. The availability of the source code and particularly the jsFiddle live demo setup enable the interested reader to explore the software without complicated installation procedures. In the following, I will list a few comments that might help to assure that the tools unlock their full potential. Note that while there is an overlap to the review by Laurent Gatto, I will repeat certain aspects for the sake of completeness. Interoperability with other BioJS components / PINV: The ability to show additional information about protein interactors (e.g., database identifiers, cross-references) and their interactions (e.g. links to source databases and publications, confidence scores) is what distinguishes a truly interactive network display from a nice visualization. In contrast to the two basic examples currently provided, PINV nicely demonstrates that this can be accomplished. Given that BioJS is essentially about modularity and re-usability of code, it would be great if the authors could provide more detailed examples that illustrate how their layout components can be combined with other BioJS components, e.g., to visualize additional information in popups. If manuscript space permits, additional commented source code files or a jsFiddle setup would be great and would further ease the application of the tools. M. tuberculosis example: As part of the BioJS collection, the manuscript generally seems to be written for computer scientists / developers rather than biologists. As such, the paragraph describing the M. tuberculosis interaction network example is too extensive and does not fit the focus of the remaining article. This example could be shortened and moved into the corresponding figure legends, making room for the aforementioned, more thorough description of other parts. Cytoscape.js: While the authors mention similar software like Cytoscape and VisANT, the HTML5 library Cytoscape.js ( http://cytoscape.github.io/cytoscape.js/ ) and its predecessor Cytoscape Web ( http://cytoscapeweb.cytoscape.org/ ) are omitted, although they are likely the closest competitors. Source code examples: From the manuscript or the source code examples it is not obvious why the UniProtKB accession numbers and the organism information is provided, as neither is used or shown in the examples. It should be clarified, if tools require this information or if this might be used for connecting with other BioJS components. Title: Looking only at the title and the abstract, it appears that PPI layouts is the name of the BioJS component that is described in the article. As this is not the case and the name PPI layouts is never used again, it could be removed from the title to prevent confusion.