Zheng et al performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of echocardiographic studies that included prognostic characteristics of 4 geometric patterns of cardiac remodeling. Through the combined total of 22 studies comprising diverse populations, including hypertension, aortic stenosis, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, ischemic strokes, chronic kidney disease etc, the authors conclude that the presence of concentric LVH and eccentric hypertrophy was associated with a higher risk of all-cause mortality. The overall aim of this study is commendable. Nonetheless, there are a few areas of note: The study includes populations both with and without pre-existing cardiovascular disease; in such a situation, the baseline risk profiles differ significantly (eg. an apparently healthy individual with newly diagnosed hypertension has a substantially lower risk profile compared to an individual with pre-existing or longstanding aortic stenosis although both may develop LVH eventually). A suggested approach would be to stratify the risk of LVH based on aetiology (e.g. hypertension-related, aortic stenosis related, multifactorial etc.) which would make the meta-analysis more applicable to the above sub-groups of patients rather than providing a single risk ratio for an entire phenotypic category of cardiac remodeling. The authors may consider excluding the studies involving the general population to limit the study population to those with pre-existing disease, as the absolute number of Framingham subjects with LVH was actually small. Importantly, the classification of LVH and RWT differed in certain studies, so applicability is affected. Although the authors listed this as a limitation, studies with substantial differences in quantifying LVH might need to be excluded in order to keep the study population homogenous. In Table 2, regional (?or relative, as stated by the American Society of Echocardiography and other international echocardiography societies) wall thickness for all 4 categories of cardiac remodeling ranged between 0.95 to 1.29. Do check if this is correct, as that would classify all subjects in the concentric geometry. For the conclusion, the authors are right to say that the study populations were heterogeneous. As such, it might be more appropriate to generate different risks for the larger subsets of patients (eg. LVH from hypertension vs LVH from aortic stenosis vs LVH from combined causes) rather than to generalise risk for all patients regardless of aetiology. 