The iCRF Generator: Generating interoperable electronic case report forms using online codebooks This manuscript is about iCRF generator, a software tool to generate interoperable CRFs. To foster re-use of data and implement FAIR principles are important topics. Source code of iCRF-generator is available, which is a plus. Major comments page 2, Methods, Supported Codebooks: Quantitative Information on 6 codebooks is missing: how many item definitions per codebook are available? how many codelist(items)? page 2, Introduction: iCRF generates CRFs in Castor, OpenClinica3 and REDCap-Format. Why not CDISC ODM, which is endorsed by FDA? The Portal of Medical Data Models provides CRFs in 18 formats page 3, Discussion "Manually mapping data definitions to a medical thesaurus such as SNOMED CT is complicated and time consuming" = Yes, this is absolutely correct. But it should be mentioned, that this mapping was already done for large sets of data items. For example, the portal of medical data models provides ~520.000 data items with manual (physician-based) terminology mappings. The portal of medical data models is not just a website, it is a registered European information infrastructure. page 6, Additional EDCs: CDISC ODM is not just an internationally established format, it is required by regulatory authorities (FDA). Define XML (FDA) is based on CDISC ODM ! page 6, EDC-specific item customisation: processing of individual data items is a very work-intensive process, given the high number of data items in clinical studies (~ 500 - 2000). Re-Use of itemgroups (sets of data items) would be useful (this feature is available in ODMedit, which is covered in the discussion) page 6, Discussion, similar work: It should be mentioned, that ODMedit provides semantic coding (especially UMLS codes) for data items and codelists. Is semantic coding available in iCRF? Minor comments page 2, Introduction, 2nd paragraph: HL7 is not a communication standard, but a standards developing organisation page 2, Introduction, 2nd paragraph: the "Meta Data Models website" correct term: Portal of Medical Data Models page 2, Introduction, 2nd paragraph: Link to Basic Health Data Set (available contents!) should be updated Figure 2 Figure 4: should be shrinked, a lot of blank space 