The authors described a protocol for cryopreservation of seeds of three tropical orchids in liquid nitrogen (LN). They tested rapid and progressive cooling with the controlled temperature at 0C, -22C, -60C and -196C. They also included the application of three different cryoprotectants such as DMSO, glycerol and sucrose. The viability of tested seeds was checked using tetrazolim test. The protocol might have potential for the cryopreservation of these orchids. However, the manuscript cannot be accepted to publish at present and need major revision for the following main reasons:. Abstract: Authors could not bring the conclusion ‘Species of the genus Epidendrum presented a more efficient response in comparison to Sobralia .’, because only one species was be tested in the this manuscript. Introduction: Orchidaceae is a large family with many endangered species and all of them are included in the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) I and II. And should be revised as ‘or’. Current research of orchid Cryopreservation should be introduced in the section. Methods: DPMS/MAE,FloraX the behind of ‘,’ should have a blank. Epidendrum quitensium Rchb.f ., Sobralia rosea Poepp. Endl . and Epidendrum anderssonii Hgsater Dodson Rchb.f., Poepp. Endl. and Hgsater Dodson should not be italic . 2392 Epidendrum quitensium Rchb.f., 2420 Sobralia rosea Poepp. Endl., Epidendrum anderssonii Hgsater Dodson Epidendrum quitensium, Sobralia rosea, Epidendrum anderssonii should be italic . Figure 1: Epidendrum quitensium, Sobralia rosea, Epidendrum anderssonii should be italic . Figure 2: A) Epidendrum quitensium , B) Sobralia rosea , C) Epidendrum anderssonii A, B, C should be labelled in Photos. Figure 3: What is ED, EDD……what is the meaning of “E”? sp2706 (T57.2), sp2392 (T 57.03), sp2420(T39.37), should be replaced by Latin name of orchids species. Discussion: The discussion should be rewritten. There were few relevant literatures of orchid Cryopreservation were cited in this manuscript. There have lots of related literatures for orchid Cryopreservation at present, which should be discussed and what is the innovation of the manuscript? All the source data should be executed by statistical analysis. 