This paper addresses the cost of academic publishing, the role of the profit margin in this cost and the inequitable access inherent with a reader pays model whereby potential readers with limited financial resources are prevented from accessing articles relevant to their research. The author also acknowledges that the prestige – seeking behaviours of researchers are important factor in considering academic publications. It is a given that publishing, in whatever form, academic research has to incur a cost. This can come from reader in the form of subscriptions etc, the author, in a form of an article processing charge, from third parties such as advertises or a combination of some or all of these. I imagine all or most researchers would agree with the notion that cost should be kept to a minimum. As stated in the article it is also important to improve equitability of access and to retain as much funding as possible for research itself. As one solution the author suggests that researchers should elect to use an ethical route to publication. One of the features of this would be that ‘any profit’ would be returned to academia and this would be most readily achieved through learned societies or institutions publishing in their own right. As the author indicates the true nature of the finances behind publications can be opaque and it would be a big burden on researchers to undertake and keep up-to-date with the financial arrangement of the myriad of publishing vehicles now available. In relation to this, and perhaps a little over looked in the article, is in indeed the gross proliferation of journals now touting their business to the academic community. Almost all these journals require an article processing charge to be paid and it is usually not evident how much of this contributes to the publishers profit margin. The authors suggestion that researchers could elect to publish with the publishers whose charges are within their means is not really going to help with issues of equitability. Researchers, certainly under the current usual means of performance evaluation, will have an overriding desire to publish in the most prestigious journal available. This is specially so with the proliferation of journals situation has been reached whereby almost anything could be published providing that authors persevere! Therefore there needs to be other ways to overcome the perception that impact factor is a surrogate measure of important and validity of data. Certainly publications of original data and comprehensive methods etc, generally in a supplementary or appendix, can help in this regard. Although not the subject of this article, there is no doubt that real reform in this sector thus requires a change in the wide academic careers are evaluated. The reliance on the numbers of publications and the impact of the publications become so important in most institutions that real reform could only happen once this reliance measures is reduced. 