This paper is an opinion article based on a research article from the same group in this journal ( Middelveen et al. , 2013 ). In their work(s) the authors associate “Morgellons Disease” (MD) with Lyme disease/spirochetal infections. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) studied “MD” cases (called “Unexplained dermopathy”), but did not find any evidence for a real infection ( Pearson et al ., 2012 ). This corroborated pre-existing large consensus in the medical community that patients with “MD” suffer from a psychiatric, not an infectious disorder, and that it is justified to view MD as a disorder unknown to medical science. The two papers in question do not provide reliable new data that justifies any divergent conclusions, because: The data basis is very poor. The methods used have been qualified as doubtful by microbiology and genetics experts on this website (as far as I can tell, as a psychiatrist/neuroscientist). The findings have not been replicated, especially not by groups without personal connection to the (former) “Morgellons Research Foundation/MRF” (for background information see Freudenmann Lepping, 2009 ). Assessment: The authors over-interpret their data and suggest using a new name for something old, which is misleading. Based on the two papers, and contrary to the authors’ conclusion, there is no need to make any changes in the way that the medical profession approaches patients with self-diagnosed “Morgellons” (i.e. delusional infestation) and borreliosis /positive borrelia burgdorferia serologies, as long as "MD" is not accepted as an existing (infectious) illness by the CDC or by any responsible federal authority worldwide. Existing treatment guidelines for (neuro-)borreliosis provide excellent information for the physician on which patient needs antibiotic therapy and who does not. The authors use a flawed line of reasoning to argue that patients with “MD” do not meet criteria of a psychiatric disorder simply because the name “delusional infestation” is not mentioned in the DSM-5 delusional disorder chapter.