This is an important topic and data collected in field operations can be potentially informative to practitioners in India and elsewhere. The main results are given as the prevalence of moderate and severe malnutrition determined by MUAC at 7 mobile clinics in an area affected by chronic insurgency. The paper would be considerably strengthened by a more detailed description of research question being asked, the population and how they were sampled. As currently written, no data on treatment and its outcomes are given. Without these, it will be difficult to draw policy-relevant conclusions. In the Introduction, it would be helpful to clarify some of the terminology for readers: In ‘However a higher cut off point of 115 mm was recommended later by WHO as it allows to identify a more accurate number of infants and children with severe acute malnutrition…’, please say what is meant by ‘accurate’. It is known that MUAC and WHZ identify different sets of children with variable overlap. Neither are a true gold standard, but my understanding is the 110cm was a closer match to the previous NCHS WHZ reference, and 115mm is a closer match to the 2006 WHO reference. Similarly, in ‘here is large body of evidence strongly suggesting that MUAC is a better indicator of acute malnutrition…’, please give in more detail what is meant by ‘better’. The strongest means of validation is association of anthropometry with subsequent mortality, where MUAC generally performs better than WHZ. Other considerations in community or emergency settings are: reliability of measurement in the field (a few publications have compared MUAC and WHZ); cost, robustness and portability. Besides WHO, please state what the Indian national malnutrition guidelines recommend. Please finish the introduction by stating the aims of the study. In the Materials and Methods, more details of the study population and population they were drawn from are needed: Please state the planned study design, or be clear if it was an analysis of operational data (without a prior specific sample size). Please state who were the population targeted by MUAC screening. Was it only amongst self-presenters because of a suspected nutrition or health problem, or attending for vaccination? Why did children attend without health problems? Was community sensitisation done (thus influencing the population to attend, and not representing the usual clinic population)? If not door-to-door, what were the potential biases? Or was it designed to be representative of the community? If so, what fraction of the population were measured? Please give some more information about the individual sites, including location (a map would be helpful) and factors relating to food security etc. It would also be helpful to have a couple of sentences explaining the Naxalite problem for unfamiliar readers. Please briefly describe training and verification for staff undertaking MUAC. In ‘…fibre optic color-coded measuring tapes divided into 2 mm additions…’, should ‘additions’ be ‘divisions’? Please mention if the fibre optic tapes have been validated against conventional tapes. In Results: Please begin the results with the numbers screened, rather than putting this in the Methods section. then give the median (IQR) for age for orange and red groups, and % female/male. Were there any missing data or implausible values? Please provide a histogram of age rather than table 3 since 6-23m is a very large age band, age 6 month olds are quite different to 23 month olds. In place of table 3, please give the breakdown of red and orange results by gender, season and by clinic site. Did prevalence vary by site or season? A figure may be useful to show seasonal variation. Are there any data on outcomes of treatment? This would make the manuscript much stronger. In the Discussion: It is not possible to make comparisons with the NFH without the study design having aimed to collect community rather than clinic-based populations. This needs to be clarified above. If the population is representative of clinic attendees, then this comparison should be deleted. For the sentence ‘evidence from other countries may not be relevant to a very diverse and vast country like India.’, please be much more specific. Do the authors mean anthropometry (posing a challenge to the WHO 2006 findings that advantaged children grow the same in different settings); or in needs and responses to treatment? If the latter, then please provide some discussion and references on trials and CMAM programmes, e.g. http://gh.bmj.com/content/1/4/e000144 , https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4381773/ and http://www.ennonline.net/fex/52/acutemalnutritionindiaschildren to start with. 