 Summary Ashano et al apply a clustering method for a reanalysis of a published dataset. The dataset is split into three groups and in each they identify genes that exhibit significant upregulation of gene expression and then cluster genes by RNA-seq gene expression profile. They identify clusters that exhibit stage specific upregulation and show that certain clusters have enriched GO terms associated with processes specific to the life cycle stage. Finally, they search for sequence motifs that are enriched in the upstream region of genes in a specific cluster, suggesting that these motifs may be regulatory elements for the clusters. Review Comments The main criticism is the difficulty to understand the clustering, which is central to the paper. We believe that the clustering may contain fundamental flaws that are difficult to pinpoint due to the unclarity of the methods. It seems that the six different time points are split into three groups IDX, SEX and MOS. This is unintuitive and discards genes expressed at different stages. How robust is the clustering using maSigPro to different parameters? How was 9 clusters chosen? Does a different clustering algorithm yield similar results? The explanation of how genes are determined as being significantly upregulated and how the clustering is performed is unclear at the moment. Some more explanation would be useful. Particularly, it is not clear if only significantly upregulated genes are clustered or not, as later in the manuscript the authors refer to clusters with significantly upregulated genes suggesting that non-significant genes are also clustered. Better visualization of the clusters would be nice. For example, how many clusters are there and how many genes are in each of the clusters? In figure 1, it would be good to plot the expression profiles of all the genes in each of the clusters in order to get an idea of the variance in gene expression in each of the clusters. When describing the proportion of genes upregulated in each of the life-cycle stages, it would be useful to compare these results to other published datasets to look at the overlap. Therefore the clustering results are unexpected. Figure 1 should show all the time points. We are not sure what the 0h time point refers to. Further just 1448 genes seem to be differentially expressed in the IDX, but this is in contrast to around 3300 genes in the IDX expressed in several P. falciparum studies 1 - 3 . As the title of the manuscript suggests an analysis of Plasmodium , why choose a dataset that only has 3 idx timepoints, compared to several other RNA-Seq datasets with at least 7 timepoints, or over 48 timepoints in the above mentioned microarray experiments. There are a lot of published data, see plasmoDB. So it is unclear why this choice was made. In the absence of a rational reason, it would be good to use an alternative dataset to get better resolution. Last, we do not understand how 4383 genes out of 5003 can be differentially expressed in the MOS stage, Table 1 of the manuscript. In the figure 2 of the paper presenting the used date 4 , the amount of genes expressed in the ookinete stage is similar to that of the other stages. Could you please explain the differences. Better data visualization and more explicit numbers quoted in a more thorough walkthrough of the methods would help clear up these questions. If the authors choose not to include further datasets, the title or at least the abstract should specify that the analysis was done on P. berghei . The manuscript currently generalizes the findings in this species to be generally valid for all other Plasmodium species. The introduction is very general, and could give a better overview of similar work performed in malaria recently. In the GO enrichment, genes that are not expressed in the dataset should be excluded from the gene background (which is not possible in plasmoDB). It would be better to use topGO. Also, the GO terms are from geneDB and not from the annotation center. Why mention SEX cluster 5 in the GO term section if there are no significant GO terms? Upstream regions of genes for the motif identification were obtained from P. falciparun orthologs. Why not use P. berghei upstream regions, seeing as the RNA-seq data is from P. berghei ? In the results it is stated that motifs were searched in the 800bp upstream region of each gene, but in the methods it says 1000bp. Which is correct? Additional information on the identified motifs would be nice. For example, distribution of the motifs in the upstream region, presence of the motifs in upstream regions of other genes, etc. Additional comparison of the motifs to motifs identified in other studies would also be good, for example known AP2 binding motifs, with a lot of work having been performed by Ilinas 5 . It is highly speculative to state that a lower number of genes are upregulated in the IDC stage due to immune pressure. The mosquito also possesses an immune system that would likely exhibit similar pressure. In table 2, the background percent column would benefit from better explanation and explicit numbers: ie. 5 genes out of 10 instead of just 50%. P-values might also be useful to include here. In many cases references are placed at the end of paragraphs instead of after the particular statement that the references support, for example in the lipoate paragraph. Last, we would encourage the authors to discuss their finding with other similar papers in the field, especially the found motifs and the upregulated gene clusters. There are multiple spelling mistakes and strangely formulated sentences throughout the manuscript that hinder understanding. References 1. Bozdech Z, Llinás M, Pulliam BL, Wong ED, et al.: The transcriptome of the intraerythrocytic developmental cycle of Plasmodium falciparum. PLoS Biol . 2003; 1 (1): E5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Llinás M, Bozdech Z, Wong ED, Adai AT, et al.: Comparative whole genome transcriptome analysis of three Plasmodium falciparum strains. Nucleic Acids Res . 2006; 34 (4): 1166-73 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Otto TD, Wilinski D, Assefa S, Keane TM, et al.: New insights into the blood-stage transcriptome of Plasmodium falciparum using RNA-Seq. Mol Microbiol . 2010; 76 (1): 12-24 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Otto TD, Böhme U, Jackson AP, Hunt M, et al.: A comprehensive evaluation of rodent malaria parasite genomes and gene expression. BMC Biol . 2014; 12 : 86 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Campbell TL, De Silva EK, Olszewski KL, Elemento O, et al.: Identification and genome-wide prediction of DNA binding specificities for the ApiAP2 family of regulators from the malaria parasite. PLoS Pathog . 2010; 6 (10): e1001165 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Otto TD and Rutledge G. Reviewer Report For: Cluster analysis of Plasmodium RNA-seq time-course data identifies stage-specific co-regulated biological processes and regulatory elements [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (ISCB Comm J):1932 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9787.r17785 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1932/v1#referee-response-17785 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Coller HA. Reviewer Report For: Cluster analysis of Plasmodium RNA-seq time-course data identifies stage-specific co-regulated biological processes and regulatory elements [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (ISCB Comm J):1932 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9787.r17942 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1932/v1#referee-response-17942 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 24 Nov 2016 Hilary Ann Coller , Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology (MCDB), University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9787.r17942 This manuscripts describes a carefully executed analysis of gene expression patterns over the Plasmodium life cycle. The authors have identified genes and GO categories that are upregulated at different stages of the Plasmodium life cycle, the intraerythrocytic developmental cycle, the ... Continue reading READ ALL 