The paper is well written, however, many items require clarification: My main criticism is the initial need to install several packages (RCaller, Rserve, Runiversal, Java, etc...), plus Cytoscape and the CommandTool plugin. Since I did not know if this would break my personal configuration or if I would be able to uninstall it, I was not able to performe the whole installation myself. It would be great if the authors could provide a virtual machine image with all the software preloaded so that one can try it out of the box without installation. I know by experience that cityscape plugins tend to work only with a single version of Cytoscape, so a clear list of all the required versions in the paper itself would be very useful. The number of packages we are dealing with is very confusing. I am also afraid that with such a large number of dependencies, the program may break after any update. In the Implementation section, the authors mention the "iris dataset". It would be useful to define what this is. It is also mentioned in the documentation but it is still unclear what the authors are referring to. The documentation shows an example where the ggplot2 package is used to plot "petal". Could the authors please define what this is? Figure 2: It would be useful to define more accurately what type of data we are looking at here (e.g. gene expression?). In the discussion, several R packages are mentioned (DvD, Cytocopter), what are their links with the present software other than the fact that they run under R? Is it really possible to interact with them from Cytoscape? If so, the proper documentation or a tutorial should be provided. It would also be useful if an actual example using DvD along interaction data, could be shown. I do not understand the example with DataRail. The usefulness of the example given is not clear to me since it seems that no interaction data is given (for me this is the main purpose of Cytoscape). A useful example for most users might be: - A network of protein-protein interaction (PPI) data in Cytoscape. - Some expression data in R (an exprs object for instance). An example of a question might be " How to superimpose the expression data and generate a proper network attribute from it? " 