Complex physiologically systems are often subdivided into parts and studied separately by experimental methods. But in experimental physiology, subsystems are not easily put back together and conclusions made concerning subsystems have limited validity for the original undivided system as their function and dynamics may have changed when isolated from one another. Parts that cannot be isolated experimentally may be studied (separately) using modeling. Mathematical modeling is able to unfold the influence that each of the processes has on the overall dynamic and thus modeling is highly adept at separating systems into components simple enough for their structures and functions to be studied in isolation. Mathematical modeling is the only controlled way to put the pieces back together by using equations that represent the system's components and processes, as well as its structures and interactions. In “A computational analysis of the long-term regulation of arterial pressure” the authors follow this strategy nicely in a successful attempt to investigate what they denote the ‘renocentric’ theory by Guyton. Here the authors combine cardiovascular and baroreflex models with models of the renin-angiotensin system whereby some important conclusions are reached. Among these conclusions the authors emphasize that the baroreflex may play a key role in the long-term regulation of the arterial pressure and especially in hypertension in contrast to the Guytonian view. The authors follow the physiologically structure well in their models as they carefully validate the different sub-models/elements by comparing them with existing various animal experiments. These sub-models are then integrated into a well-behaved and solid overall model. However, there are some methodic drawbacks I would like to emphasize: Most model equations are in some sense ad-hoc choices (or phenomenological, as the authors mention at the very end). These equations are not based on first principles and hence they do not represent the underlying mechanisms. Instead the approach is to assume a first order transient toward some static sigmoidal relationship. In addition, the authors make a lot of self-references, which shadows the fact that many of the used sub-models are adjustment taken from elsewhere and ideas from other sources. Strengthening the paper with such information would definitely support the approach taken. The paper is very well structured and written but a few misprints have sneaked in: Formula (3): Should the fraction be / C Ao instead of C Ao /? Formula (4): An index o is missing on V sA On page 4, coulomb 2, line 2: should be On page 4, coulomb 2, line 5: ‘… the population transition from an active state at a rate … ’ Please state reference (or state that this is a hypothetical assumption)!