Regretfully, many of our previous comments have not been adequately addressed in the current revision and the author’s response, particularly in regard to comparing the proposed method to existing work and justifying its ability to prioritize gene sets in a biologically relevant way. We also have concerns about design decisions in the algorithm and workflow, including the choice of Jaccard cut off and the use of categorical enrichment scoring, that are not adequately explained in the manuscript and responses and continuing technical problems in running the code. The author acknowledges the similarity to the Enrichment Map method (Merico et al. 2010 1 ) and notes that it is cited in the manuscript. However, the method is never explicitly mentioned in the text nor is its similarity to the author’s method mentioned even though the similarity is mentioned in the response to review. Given this similarity we feel the text should include a comparison or a discussion of benefits or drawbacks of the respective methods. While the author responded that Merico et al. 1 is cited, the citation only refers to the use of the Jaccard method. The response to review contains the following sentence, “The present workflow implements a similar functionality in R and allows for integration in automated analysis pipelines.” Why not just edit or expand on this, specifying that it refers to Enrichment Map, and insert into main text? The author has not clarified whether “umbrella” is meant as a synonym for hierarchy or if it is describing some other structure. As the author does note that a collection need not have an explicitly defined hierarchy for this method to be useful, how would a potential user determine if such an “umbrella” structure was present and whether or not a given gene set collection would be a good candidate for this approach? In discussing the Jaccard cut off, the author mentions the general properties preferred in an optimal network, but it is still not clear how a user would robustly evaluate their choice of Jaccard coefficient. Is it sufficient to simply assure that there are at least two distinct components in the graph or is another heuristic more appropriate? Again, some indication of quantitation would be helpful to the user. The author notes that additional validation with respect to different parameter settings and input datasets is planned for future work. We are not clear why the author cannot indicate how the results in Figure 5 recapitulate known biology in the airway dataset or if they would help the user draw new conclusions. It is unclear from the manuscript whether or not these clusters are in fact useful for further biological interpretation downstream of the proposed method. Wouldn’t this be the main point of using such a method? With regard to the choice of gene set collection (Hallmarks, KEGG, Reactome, etc.), we would encourage discussion as to the merits or drawbacks of different collections. We note that the Hallmark collection is the most frequently accessed gene set collection in MSigDB and was built using a method that included, in part, clustering of existing gene sets. The paper could be significantly strengthened by comparison of the results of the gene set clustering and prioritization based on enrichment scores in RICHNET to the existing Hallmark collection. We also note that collections of gene sets used to create each individual Hallmark gene set are available on MSigDB. The author notes that a continuous coloring scheme for output visualizations could be developed using the negative log10 of the p-values. This is certainly possible, but the author has not addressed our concerns involving the coarse, discrete categorization of gene sets as “Up” or “Down” when many popular algorithms for calculating continuous enrichment scores exist. This design decision should be justified in a bit more detail. Technical problems in running the code: The author has fixed the original bugs in the analysis. However, we encountered the following technical issues when running the new version of the R markdown notebook: a.The EGSEA package is not included in the setup code. Thus, if a user did not have it previously installed, then an error would be triggered later in the analysis. b. The R markdown notebook itself as accessed from the DOI contains notes to comment or delete code “for real submission”. We are therefore uncertain if we are running the correct code for this analysis. c. We encountered the error “Error in `diag-`(`*tmp*`,value=0): only matrix diagonals can be replace” at line 185 of the notebook and were unable to continue with the analysis. There is currently a high burden on the users of this code to identify and solve package dependencies and other errors whose origins are not immediately clear to those not familiar with the underlying packages. These concerns should be addressed to make the workflow distribution more robust and user-friendly. References 1. Merico D, Isserlin R, Stueker O, Emili A, et al.: Enrichment map: a network-based method for gene-set enrichment visualization and interpretation. PLoS One . 2010; 5 (11): e13984 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Mesirov JP and Wenzel A. Reviewer Report For: Enhancing gene set enrichment using networks [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 8 :129 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.21861.r51269 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-129/v2#referee-response-51269 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 30 Jan 2019 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Casadio R. Reviewer Report For: Enhancing gene set enrichment using networks [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 8 :129 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19488.r45393 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-129/v1#referee-response-45393 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 10 Apr 2019 Rita Casadio , Biocomputing Group, CIG, Interdepartmental Center «Luigi Galvani» for Integrated Studies of Bioinformatics, Biophysics and Biocomplexity, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19488.r45393 The authors present an efficient and very useful method for gene set analysis. Their approach is network based and facilitates retrieval of sets of genes that are highly connected. Grouping is due to common context (molecular pathways, biological function, tissue ... Continue reading READ ALL 