The study by Mboowa et al focuses on reviewing the molecular mechanisms underlying the role of Colistin resistance in and the importance of high-throughput sequencing and data analysis in identifying chromosomal and plasmid resistance. The authors explored the spread of colistin resistance genes and gave an example on the spread of mcr-1 in Africa. They gave examples of the lipid A modification to be linked to two component systems. Moreover, they demonstrated the link between other resistance pathways and colistin where they highlighted examples of mobile colistin elements and tetracycline and carbapenem resistance co-transfer and co-exist. Finally, they described the role of High-throughput sequencing technologies and identified several platforms and methods. Overall, the review is interesting and the data presented in the manuscript is somewhat supporting the conclusion. However, there are a few comments that need to be addressed prior to indexing: General comments: The manuscript is written in poor English. Several statements are too long and lack clarity, precision, and completeness. The manuscript has to be rewritten in proper English before submitting it for a detailed revision. As an example “The modifications of the lipid A, which reduce and/or abolish the initial charge-based interaction with the polymyxins in bacteria13,15,16 and also the addition of either/or the 4-amino-4- deoxy-L-arabinose (L-Ara4N) and the phosphoethanolamine (PEtn) that ultimately form the basis of colistin resistance in bacteria16, is mediated by chromosomally encoded genes” *Very confusing and needs further explanations. Authors need to spell out the abbreviation as commonly used. As an example HTS should be NGS (next generation sequencing) in the manuscript. In the introduction section, the authors adapted figure 1 of Africa, which talks about countries are not represented in figure 1 and the figure is not matching what is written. Perhaps a different figure could represent the text better. The reference quoted need to be checked as I have noticed addition of unnecessary references or references that do not match the text. Example reference 4, 16, 17 are quoted in some places where it’s not needed have 3 references and do not match the text. The abstract mentions novel mobile colistin resistance plasmid that was not discussed. Specific comments: Examples of bacterial type and specific chromosomal mutations are needed, generalization of the resistance pattern could be misleading especially with chromosomal genes. Also, other known chromosomal genes such as pmrC, crrA/B/C, dedA. Finally, as an example a gene such as eraR is known to be linked to colistin only in Pseudomonas as a response regulator, therefore, the authors are encouraged to mention that different mutations in different organisms can be identified by NGS. Repetition of mcr-1,mcr-2 and mcr-3 sentences several times and not including the rest of the genes all the way to the newly discovered but not published yet mcr-9 and maybe mention the location of such genes. 