The software described in this paper provides useful tools for working with taxonomic data in R by providing a standard approach for storing and manipulating this hierarchically structured data. Taxonomic data is prevalent in many biological disciplines. As result, this package fills an important niche and has the potential to become widely used by other packages dealing with biological data. The software itself follows good development practices including modularization, documentation, version control, and automated testing. The package is available through CRAN – the main repository for R packages. Both the CRAN release and the development version of the package install smoothly. The use case examples given in the paper all run as expected on the development version, but they include functionality that is not present in the most recent release. This means that readers of the paper who have not installed the development version will encounter issues with the examples. We recommend a new minor version release so that the existing functionality is reflected in the latest release. Alternatively in-development functionality could be removed from the examples in the paper. The paper does a nice job of motivating the need for the package and the use case section nicely demonstrates some of the core functionality. However, there are improvements that could be made to help the paper communicate with a broader audience. Specifically we recommend changes to the Introduction and Methods sections. In the Introduction we suggest either expanding the second paragraph or adding a new paragraph to describe the other kinds of datasets that this will be helpful for. There are many large and small ecological and evolutionary datasets beyond high-throughput sequencing that involve lots of taxonomic data (e.g., museum records, citizen science projects, compilations of literature data) and broadening the context will help more readers understand why this package might be useful to them. We also suggest adding an additional paragraph, following the third paragraph, that describes typical taxonomic data, including an example, and that mentions the specific challenges of this kind of hierarchical data. This will help readers less familiar with these issues understand the value of the software and help set up the technical details in the last paragraph of the Introduction. To make room for these additions we suggest removing the first paragraph, which currently states that R is “becoming the leading tool for scientific data analysis in academic research.” This specific interpretation isn’t justified by the associated citation and it is broadly understood that R is an important language so a paragraph explaining this isn’t really necessary. In the Methods we suggest moving the parsing section to the beginning, and using the examples from that section throughout the descriptions of classes. This will help ground the descriptions of the classes and how they are related, which currently reads as somewhat abstract. The current second paragraph (“The hierarchy and taxonomy class”) would benefit from having the hierarchy class defined more and the differences between the hierarchy and taxonomy classes clarified. For example, it is stated later that the hierarchy class is simpler and the taxonomy class is more hierarchical; it would be helpful to include this information earlier. Moving the last two sentences of this paragraph to the beginning might address this issue. The taxon IDs information could be its own paragraph, starting with “Using automatically generated taxon IDs”. The examples in that section are really helpful. In the beginning of the third paragraph of the methods (“The taxmap class”), it would be helpful to emphasize that this class combines the rest of the original data (including an example of original data, e.g., mass) back with the taxon class. Finally, a figure of an example taxonomic hierarchy that illustrates the operation of the filtering, mapping, and roots/stems/branches/leaves functions would be useful. Minor suggestions Define the following phrases to broaden communication “character vectors”, first paragraph of methods “custom print method”, first paragraph of methods “non-standard evaluation”, third paragraph of methods “parsing”, paragraph 11 of methods Cite Wickham Francois (2015) for the dplyr philosophy in the fourth Methods paragraph Consider color coding the boxes in Fig. 1 to match the three classes paragraphs Define R6 and S3 in the Fig. 1 legend 