 Introduction: It is well-known that large doses of aspirin may produce reversible tinnitus and hearing loss. The authors set out to test whether prolonged use of low dose aspirin for heart disease (presumably mostly ischaemic in nature) has a deleterious effect on hearing. Unfortunately, there are a number of problems with this study. Subjects: The authors are correct in their acknowledgement of vascular risk factors such as hypertension and diabetes for age-related hearing loss. (This age-related loss is presumably predominant in this study, judging from the increase in deafness by age group.) The design of the study does not allow ischaemic heart disease – itself also a risk factor for age-related hearing loss – to be accounted for, as all the aspirin-taking group were on aspirin for heart disease, whereas none of the control group had this risk factor. This confounding factor can only be addressed in a blinded, randomised prospective trial of aspirin in healthy individuals, as the authors acknowledge. There is some confusion regarding the risk factors diabetes and hypertension in the manuscript. a) What criteria were used for these diagnoses? Furthermore, were the subjects screened for these risk factors as part of the study, or was there reliance on medical record review or on patient self-description? b) These risk factors “ ... had to be ruled out” (Methods, para 5, page 2), but these factors were included in the regression analysis (Results, para 7, page 3). Were those with hypertension and diabetes indeed excluded from the study? While there was adjustment for age and sex, other known risk factors for age-related hearing loss such as smoking and educational level (Stevens G, et al. 2013 1 ; Agrawal Y, et al. 2008 2 ) were not reported. Were there any group differences in these factors? The age range stratification (15-50; 51-59; 60-75) seem rather arbitrary and uneven. Were these divisions chosen to equalise numbers? The grouping of 15 year olds with 50 year olds seems inappropriate, and presumably the heart disease for which the 15 year olds were on aspirin was rather different. I think that the study would have been stronger with the exclusion of this paediatric group (presumably small). A histogram of the age distribution of subjects and controls by year of age (not age group) would be illuminating. Methods: Figure 1: The definition of hearing impairment is unclear. Why was the WHO classification not used? This averages the loss in dB at 4 frequencies: 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz in the better ear, with mild loss being diagnosed at 25 dB and moderate at 40 dB. I presume that a dichotomous classification of hearing impairment was applied given that chi-squared tests were applied to the data, but the definition of hearing loss is not actually stated. In a related matter, the results were documented as low, middle, high frequency loss (Methods, para 6, page 2), but this stratification is not subsequently referred to in the Results section. Noise-related deafness was excluded on history (“careful history was taken to rule out noise-induced hearing loss in each occupation” – Results, para 4, page 3). Was the presence of a prominent notch on PTA at 4 kHz used to complement the history of noise exposure as a cause of exclusionary noise-related deafness? (Incidentally, this exclusionary statement should appear in Methods rather than Results.) Conductive loss was excluded on clinical examination and tuning fork tests. Was there a reason that a bone-ear conduction gap on audiometry was not used to complement this exclusionary point? Results: The results are tabulated with inappropriate precision (often to 4 or 5 significant figures). Discussion: Age-related hearing impairment is presumably the major cause of deafness in this study, as the relative risks of the older age bands suggest. There is animal evidence for microvascular involvement in age-related hearing loss (Prazma J, et al . 1990 3 ; Shi X. 2011 4 ). There is evidence from humans linking inflammatory states to age-related hearing loss by correlation of markers of mild systemic inflammatory states (raised IL-6 and CRP levels) with hearing loss (Verschuur C, et al . 2012 5 ). In other words, a reasonable hypothesis would be that low dose aspirin is actually protective against age-related hearing loss. In this context the study by Curhan et al. cited by the authors deserves further discussion. It found greater rates of hearing loss with prolonged regular use of aspirin, NSAIDs, and paracetamol (acetaminophen). There are two problems with that study, however: firstly, it relied on self-report of symptoms of deafness, with confirmation by a professional again self-reported. A second and potentially greater problem is confounding by indication, in that the reason for taking these medications in the first place (e.g. mild inflammatory state) may itself have been responsible for some or all of the hearing impairment. Conclusion: As it stands, this submission requires considerably more work to reach a suitable level. However, the primary data is presumably still available, and the submission could be re-written and re-analysed, perhaps along the lines suggested above, to improve its suitability. A minor comment is that the English expression requires some revision, although it is largely understandable in its current form. 