Thanks for citing our paper on similarity maps. However the key point is missing: in our 2015 paper (Awale Reymond 2015) we computed similarity values for all ChEMBL molecules ( 1 million) to only 100 molecules used as reference (the same as "satellites" here), and not the full similarity matrix. We then performed a PCA of the resulting similarity fingerprint to obtain a 2D-map (see the interactive "similarity-mapplets" web portal at www.gdb.unibe.ch). We have also published another implementation of similarity maps to visuzalize the Protein DataBank, using the same principle of choosing a limited set of sattelites only (Jin et al. 2015). The authors are doing exactly the same similarity calculation here using a limited set of reference compounds, as we did then, nothing is new. What is interesting in the present report is to look at how the selected set of "satellites" influences the PCA-map. References 1. Awale M, Reymond JL: Similarity Mapplet: Interactive Visualization of the Directory of Useful Decoys and ChEMBL in High Dimensional Chemical Spaces. J Chem Inf Model . 2015; 55 (8): 1509-16 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Jin X, Awale M, Zasso M, Kostro D, et al.: PDB-Explorer: a web-based interactive map of the protein data bank in shape space. BMC Bioinformatics . 2015; 16 : 339 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Cheminformatics and drug design I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Reymond JL. Reviewer Report For: ChemMaps: Towards an approach for visualizing the chemical space based on adaptive satellite compounds [version 2; peer review: 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 (Chem Inf Sci):1134 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13342.r24806 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1134/v2#referee-response-24806 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 08 Aug 2017 Jos L. Medina-Franco , Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico 08 Aug 2017 Author Response Dear Dr. Reymond, thank you for your feedback. Following your comment in our initial submission (point 1 in your report), we have acknowledged your approach. Indeed, ChemMaps is highly related ... Continue reading Dear Dr. Reymond, thank you for your feedback. Following your comment in our initial submission (point 1 in your report), we have acknowledged your approach. Indeed, ChemMaps is highly related to your work (as well as to Chem-GPS). A key difference, however, ChemMaps is meant to analyze individual data sets of compounds that might be included or not in ChEMBL or Protein Data Bank. This would be useful for corporate databases. We are not proposing a defined set of standard compounds or satellites. The set of satellites would be "dynamic" and dependent on the data sets. Dear Dr. Reymond, thank you for your feedback. Following your comment in our initial submission (point 1 in your report), we have acknowledged your approach. Indeed, ChemMaps is highly related to your work (as well as to Chem-GPS). A key difference, however, ChemMaps is meant to analyze individual data sets of compounds that might be included or not in ChEMBL or Protein Data Bank. This would be useful for corporate databases. We are not proposing a defined set of standard compounds or satellites. The set of satellites would be "dynamic" and dependent on the data sets. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 08 Aug 2017 Jos L. Medina-Franco , Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico 08 Aug 2017 Author Response Dear Dr. Reymond, thank you for your feedback. Following your comment in our initial submission (point 1 in your report), we have acknowledged your approach. Indeed, ChemMaps is highly related ... Continue reading Dear Dr. Reymond, thank you for your feedback. Following your comment in our initial submission (point 1 in your report), we have acknowledged your approach. Indeed, ChemMaps is highly related to your work (as well as to Chem-GPS). A key difference, however, ChemMaps is meant to analyze individual data sets of compounds that might be included or not in ChEMBL or Protein Data Bank. This would be useful for corporate databases. We are not proposing a defined set of standard compounds or satellites. The set of satellites would be "dynamic" and dependent on the data sets. Dear Dr. Reymond, thank you for your feedback. Following your comment in our initial submission (point 1 in your report), we have acknowledged your approach. Indeed, ChemMaps is highly related to your work (as well as to Chem-GPS). A key difference, however, ChemMaps is meant to analyze individual data sets of compounds that might be included or not in ChEMBL or Protein Data Bank. This would be useful for corporate databases. We are not proposing a defined set of standard compounds or satellites. The set of satellites would be "dynamic" and dependent on the data sets. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 17 Jul 2017 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Reymond JL. Reviewer Report For: ChemMaps: Towards an approach for visualizing the chemical space based on adaptive satellite compounds [version 2; peer review: 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 (Chem Inf Sci):1134 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13086.r24277 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1134/v1#referee-response-24277 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 31 Jul 2017 Jean-Louis Reymond , Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13086.r24277 J. Jess Naveja et al present a methodology for representation of chemical space of small sets of compounds. In general, the approach involves selection of satellite compounds from the database, computing the similarities of all compounds in the database to ... Continue reading READ ALL 