A large body of pathological evidence has established a pattern on degeneration for neurons affected in Parkinsons disease (PD). Indeed, axonal processes and synapses of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) progressively degenerate long before these cells undergo cell death. Mechanisms underlying early degeneration of axons in PD remain unknown, but several lines of evidence have linked this critical pathogenic event to abnormalities in the function of conventional kinesin and cytoplasmic dynein (CDyn), major microtubule-based molecular motors responsible for axonal transport in adult neurons. Consistent with these observations above, this work by Liu and collaborators reports a striking alteration in the distribution of CDyn in brains of transgenic mice expressing a PD-related mutant form of alpha synuclein (A53T-Tg mice). Immunohistochemical and immunoblotting experiments demonstrated a marked increase in levels of a specific CDyn subunit (DIC) in the SN of A53T Tg mice, compared to age-matched, non-transgenic control mice (nTg mice). Conversely, A53T-Tg mice showed decreased levels of DIC in the striatum when compared to nTg mice. Co-localization studies further suggested that this reduction in striatal DIC levels was associated to accumulation of A53T alpha-synuclein. Additionally, a highly sensitive open-field test paradigm confirmed and further extended prior reports of motor defects in A53T-Tg mice, which significantly correlated with alterations in striatal DIC levels. Taken together, data from this paper provides novel evidence suggesting that alterations in CDyn function might contribute to disease pathogenesis associated with PD-related mutant alpha synuclein. Comments The data presented is consistent with increased activation of CDyn-dependent retrograde axonal transport by mutant alpha synuclein. Supporting this view, prior studies showed activation of CDyn-based retrograde transport by the parkinsonian drug MPP+ ( Kim-Han JS et al ., J Neurosci. 2011 ). However, this possibility is not considered in the Discussion section. CDyn is composed of multiple protein subunits including heavy (DHC) intermediate (DIC), and light (DLC) subunits, among others. In Materials and Methods, the authors report using both a monoclonal (clone 74.1; Millipore#MAB1618), and a polyclonal (Abcam ab81507) antibody against DICs, but is unclear which one was used for immunoblots shown in Figure 2. Throughout the manuscript and in the Figure 2 legend, the text should clearly indicate that data gathered in Figure 2 corresponds to DIC subunits, rather than . The authors report using an antibody from Millipore (presumably #MAB1618 against DIC), and a polyclonal (Abcam ab121209) antibody against TcTtex (one of several DLC subunits). Again, the main text and Figure 3 legend should indicate which specific CDyn subunits are analyzed for each panel in Figure 3. Some type of quantitation could be provided to illustrate the negative correlation between TcTtex levels and A53T alpha-synuclein accumulation. Minor comments The authors mention that the major finding in their study is that changes in CDyn expression occurred in the nigrostriatal system of A53T human -synuclein Tg mice. However, the experiments performed do not directly address protein expression. Rather, those evaluate overall DIC steady state levels. To ensure reproducibility of results by other investigators, please provide the lot number for Abcam polyclonal antibodies #ab81507 and #ab121209. 