I have assessed the manuscript by Juster and co-workers assessing the potential role of pharmacogenetics and clinical parameters on nevirapine plasma concentrations in people living with HIV. The study design was cross-sectional and the authors aimed to correlate CYP2B6 c.516 GT rs3745274 and c.983TC genotypes with nevirapine plasma concentration in people living with HIV under their first line nevirapine-based antiretroviral regimens. Although the findings of an association between CYP2B6 c.516 GT genotype and nevirapine plasma concentration is in line with previous literature reports, the use of nevirapine is becoming less frequent and consequently the generalizability of the results may be limited. Moreover, there are several methodological points that must be fixed. Major comments: The statement regarding the sample size is not clear. Could the authors better explain how they reached their sample size? In fact, if they had a pre-planned sample size, why did they state in the limitation section of the manuscript that the study size is limited? How were patients refereed to perform a genotypic test to detect nevirapine drug resistance? It’s not stated how the variables have been handled in the linear regression model. Which are the units entered in the model? In the present format the model is not interpretable. The authors entered in the linear regression model several variables that are unlikely to be confounders or factors that may influence nevirapine concentration. For example, the use of drug resistance in the model does not make sense because drug resistance does not impact on nevirapine concentration. Moreover, important variables seem to have been missed such as hepatic viruses’ coinfection or body weight. Overall, the model presented is not reliable and should be rebuilt by entering variables which have been demonstrated to potentially impact on nevirapine concentration according to the available literature. Minor comments: Please refer to HIV patients by using “people living with HIV”. 