 Title and Abstract The title can be more precise in reflecting the contents. For example, “ELIXIR pilot action: Comparisons of two representative pipelines of metagenomics between EMG and META-pipe”. In Abstract, the outcome of the two pipeline comparisons may be mentioned. Article Content The design, methods and analysis of the results from the study been explained well and they are appropriate for the topic being studied. However, I have the following comments: In the studies of metagenomics, there are essentially two ways of picking up genomic fragments from the DNA samples: (a) Amplicon-oriented approach and (b) Random shotgun approach. For approach (a), rRNAs can be targets for sequencing whereas for approach (b) any genomic fragments can be targets. Naturally, approach (a) can be used for phylogenetic identification only, while approach (b) can be used for not only phylogenetic identification but also functional analysis. If the authors explain about these two approaches clearly in the text, the whole context can be easier to understand to the readers who do not have the expertise of metagenomics. Marine metagenomics is one of metagenomic studies. The two pipelines explained in the present paper are basically for metagenomics in general, but not specialized for “marine” metagenomics. Then, the authors may be requested to clarify which points in the pipelines or in the methodologies are keen differences between metagenomics in general and “marine” metagenomics. Although the main part of the present paper is on differences between the two pipelines. In particular, whether the genomic fragment assembly is conducted or not appears to lead to huge differences of the outcome between the two pipelines. This is very important notion. According to our experiences of marine metagenomics, we have already recognized that the fragments assembly produces more identifiable OTUs and function in the annotation process. Therefore, we usually conduct the fragment assembly. However, the authors did not mention anything about it in Conclusion (Also see below). Conclusion In Conclusion, the authors have stated that while there are differences in the respective approaches, EMG and META-pipe provide comparable results. I do not think so. As mentioned above, the author should state the main different point between two pipelines, because they are not really “comparable”. Data I think that enough information has been provided to be able to replicate the experiment.I also think that the data are in a usable format/structure and all the data have been provided.