This is a very interesting study that draws its interpretations from a very small sample in Kenya and India. They compare the state on integration and quality of services across different size facilities in each study sites. The data is biased as it draws on high client load in well integrated facilities than poorly integrated facilities. Providers who were available were interviewed but there is no information whether these are the providers who were also trained in PPFP. It is not clear why the research team did not use facility client flow data over the last 3-4 weeks as a robust way to understand flows rather than through observation during the says of study visit. I like the approach of hierarchy of evidence and when there is disagreement between expert analyse and client flow giving preference to client flow data. Can the researchers explain when and in what instances did these disagreements happen? What might be other factors that the experts were looking at—this might help in understanding what are other metrics for well integration that the study could have looked at? The definition of integration in this study may be limited. Would the authors like to reflect on how else they may have defined and measured it? For example they look at whether the client at ANC or other departments is getting FP counselling. What about capacity of counsellor to counsel on PPFP—is that a given that its is good in well integrated facilities? Is there more informed choice and method availability in well integrated facilities? It would be helpful if the authors provide briefs on how scoring was done for integration. I see that they looked at wait times and privacy but its not clear to me whether these were attributes of well integrated or outcomes at well integrated facilities? When a facility is badly integrated, does it get lower client load—is there a way to say that from the experience of well and medium integrated facilities? Is it possible to get high client load at facilities that are more crowded but yet are badly integrated where client flow pathways are more complicated? In this study, its difficult to discern what went into the analysis as a definition of integration and what from the analysis is coming out as a determinant of integration? The results are interesting yet the methodology is unclear and seems a bit bias-what the authors report as determinants are also definitions of what is coded as well integrated? Bihar in fact shows contrary results where privacy and waiting times are worse in well integrated facilities. These results needs their own discussions—its possible that well integrated services take longer time but privacy cannot be lower in well integrated facilities? Or it can if integration is only about offering services at different points of contact. In order to contextualize the information from respondents, it would be useful if the qualitative information is cited from coming from a well or poorly integrated facilities. For example, in facilities where providers are talking about poor counselling or poor training, are those also facilities that were coded as poorly integrated? The article brings out issues of provider bias in the section on context. This is a key issue that needs to emphasised, as they clearly suggest that integrated services do not necessarily address provider bias or rights adequately. The authors discuss the limitations of the study well which is one reason I am not bringing it up in my review. However their discussion draws heavily from other studies, as this study itself presents inconclusive and mixed evidence. I think the study would be stronger if we started the analysis with fixed parameters on which questions were asked and then triangulated the qualitative data to match whether the fixed parameters for well integrated match with qualitative analysis of attributes of good quality services (which may or may not have high correlation with integration). 