 This article has discussed the evaluation and feedback of geriatrics curriculum at Shiraz University of Medical Sciences. This article is based on thesis work and has been translated from Persian. The authors have not cited a landmark article by on the evaluation of geriatrics curriculum at 40 US Medical schools and its citation has been added for reference purposes (Anderson et al. , 2004 1 ). Furthermore, regional articles relating to qualitative evaluation of geriatric curriculum have not been referenced. The article suffers from verbosity, unnecessary repetition of words and inherent problems associated with literal translation. It needs to be edited preferably by a native English speaker so that its writing is more coherent and cohesive. There are many grammar mistakes in this article and I suggest the authors to use software to check grammar such as Grammarly to review this article. Please see my annotated copy of the article here , where I have highlighted and commented on some of the sentences of the article that I have paraphrased. The authors have not discussed how they have categorized the data into themes. Whether they have software such as NVivo or have they done it manually? The authors have not mentioned the five steps of analysis of themes that include familiarization, identification of a thematic framework, indexing, charting, followed by mapping and interpretation. The authors have not suggested how curricular reforms can address the lack of integration of geriatric curriculum into the current general medicine curriculum. No details of field observations and their findings have been included in this article. One of the key features of curricular evaluation is social responsibility and social accountability and the authors have not mentioned these terminologies anywhere in this article. The words “problems of the building hospital capacity” are not appropriate and should be replaced by “infrastructure problems”. The words “Intersection collaboration in different health sections” should be replaced with “Interprofessional education collaboration”. 