The authors present the tool MethylExtract that combines extraction of methylation states and SNV calling, given alignments of bisulfite-converted reads to a reference in SAM/BAM format. Methylated CpG are mutation hotspots - dealing with SNVs is therefore an important part of any analysis of Bis-seq data. The main functions of MethylExtract are implemented in a single Perl script, which should make it easy to use - unfortunately I could not verify this because it failed to run in my environment (see below). The performance of MethylExtract is evaluated using simulated sequence data (completely methylated or completely unmethylated containing sequencing errors and SNVs) and compared to Bis-SNP, a conceptually similar tool that is based on the GATK variant calling package. The simulations cover most important aspects of the tool; however, the paper would benefit from extended simulations and a test on a real dataset. For example, the current evaluation does not cover Bis-seq datasets with very low or very high coverage or intermediate methylation levels (see minor issues below). The paper is clearly written, and the conclusions are supported by the presented results. Major issues: The MethylExtract perl script (version 1.3) did not run in my environment (RHEL 6, with Kernel 2.6.32-220.7.1.el6.x86_64, perl 5.10.1 built for x86_64-linux-thread-multi). Trying to run the main script resulted in a compilation error: perl MethylExtract_1.3.pl Type of arg 1 to keys must be hash (not hash element) at MethylExtract_1.3.pl line 318, near "}) " Execution of MethylExtract_1.3.pl aborted due to compilation errors. It is possible that the problem lies in the combination of the script and the test environment. However, the test environment fulfills the stated requirements and dependencies. Figure 6 and corresponding text: A single point comparison of Sn/PPV between MethylExtract and Bis-SNP, both with default parameters, is not very informative. Typically there is a trade-off between sensitivity and specificity which can be influenced by the choice of parameter values such as the score or P value cutoffs. It is possible that with slightly altered parameter values, the improved Sn/reduced PPV of MethylExtract compared to Bis-SNP turn into the opposite. The two tools should therefore be compared using varying parameter settings or cutoffs (altering the trade-off between Sn and PPV) and then relating the resulting specificity and sensitivity in an ROC analysis. The same applies in principle to the results presented in Figure 3. Minor issues: Simulations - readout: The current evaluation of "correct methylation" requires exact identity of simulated and estimated methylation states. This criterium is very stringent yet may not be able to uncover systematic problems. In practice, a very small deviation from the true methylation level may be tolerable. For illustration: A tool that produces many incorrect values that are off only by a small amount may be preferable to a tool that produces fewer incorrect values that are several-fold off. I would suggest using a continuous measure of performance (e.g. the differences between true and estimated methylation levels) or to allow for a minimum deviation. Simulations - methylation levels: In the introduction, the authors point out the value of methylation levels as opposed to methylation states. Also, intermediate methylation is present in virtually all real world Bis-seq data sets. The simulations should take this into account and also contain C's with intermediate methylation levels (e.g. around 50% methylation). Simulations - coverage: The current simulations are performed at 15- and 20 fold coverage and the two yield very similar results. More informative differences in performance may be observed when simulating data at even lower (~5-fold) or higher (30-fold) coverage, which are commonly found in published Bis-seq datasets. Runtime comparison: It's surprising that even though MethylExtract supports BAM input, SAM.gz was used for runtime measurements, while Bis-SNP was reading from BAM input. Unpacking of alignments from BAM files is CPU-intensive, and I wonder if MethylExtract would take more time if it was run on the same input as Bis-SNP. Table 1: MethylExtract is listed to support both SAM and BAM inputs. However, it does not directly read BAM files, but converts them to SAM using SAMtools. Using such a conversion, BSMAP and Bismark also support BAM input. I would suggest not to discriminate between SAM and BAM inputs in the table to avoid confusion based on this subtle difference. Impact of parameter choice when analyzing real world data: For some parameters (e.g. "duplicated reads filter" and "elimination of bisulfite conversion failure"), it is unclear how they would impact results in a real world analysis. A comparison of the results obtained on an experimental dataset with different parameter values could identify sensitive parameters and guide users when choosing parameters for their own analysis. Figure 5: The labels of the two y-axes are missing. In addition, CpG coverage (blue line) was probably scaled to be plotted on the same axis; if that is the case, it should be described in the legend and/or indicated in the plot. 