This submission (v3) by Camargo et al. describes the use of plasma cell-free DNA metagenomic sequencing (cf-mNGS) for pathogen detection performed by Karius in a limited number of immunocompromised patients. Results showed that the cf-mNGS results detected the same organism as conventional microbiological methods in 5 patients (one patient had two organisms detected by both conventional and cf-mNGS methods). One patient with a known diagnosis of Aspergillus fumigatus had negative cf-mNGS results, although organism reads were detected below reporting thresholds. There were four patients with no conventional diagnosis; two of these had negative cf-mNGS results, and 2 had additional organisms detected by cf-mNGS. There were 5 additional organisms detected by cf-mNGS in 3 patients, of these 2 were adjudicated as clinically significant (not stated which in paper, but I’m presuming E. coli and R. mucilaginosa ) that may have caused clinical sepsis, as the patients responded to therapy which covered these species. In addition to these organisms adjudicated as clinically significant, cf-mNGS detected 3 organisms in 2 patients that were clinically adjudicated to be not significant. The paper is generally well written and understandable, although the small number of patients enrolled limits the conclusions that can be drawn, and it would be useful to see the authors expand the study group. For the study design, it is particularly important to know whether these patients were enrolled due to their interesting conventional results and clinical course or whether all patients admitted during this time frame were enrolled. This sort of clinical trial is highly susceptible to bias due to “cherry-picking” patients with severe infections that are highly likely to yield positive cf-mNGS findings. Most of the clinical need for diagnostic utility comes in patients that are undiagnosed at the time testing is sent (often despite extensive workup), and the test performance in this population may be very different. Most of the patients had an established diagnosis prior to sending cf-mNGS, and it would be best to show in the tables whether the diagnosis was already known at the time cf-mNGS testing was sent. This version improves on the prior description of cf-mNGS test sensitivity, but the concordant results should be broken down into positive concordant results (5 cases) and negative concordant results (2 cases), along with additional organism detections. The statement made in the abstract and throughout the article that cf-mNGS identified the etiological agent in two patients with culture negative sepsis is misleading and overly interpreted by the authors. The data show that cf-mNGS detected 5 additional organisms in 3 patients. Of these, two were clinically interpreted as potentially consistent with the patient’s suspected infection. I don’t think the article actually says which cases, but from the table I’m presuming that they intend the E. coli and Rothia findings. However, without additional discrepancy testing, one cannot say that this has made the diagnosis. It does seem that the E. coli finding with high MPM is likely clinically significant. The case with Rothia mucilaginosa is more suspect, it was detected with relatively low MPM, and Rothia is a reasonably common contaminant organism that can be seen in mNGS data. The authors don’t discuss how certain organisms were interpreted to be clinically insignificant other than TTV which is well established as a non-pathogen. Presumably the Lactobacillus rhamnosus was thought to be a likely contaminant. This is a reasonable clinical interpretation, but again is not definitive. The finding of Staphylococcus epidermidis is even more problematic as this can certainly cause clinical sepsis, and it was found at fairly high MPM. It could also be a sample contaminant, and so is very difficult to clinically adjudicate. Unfortunately, clinical response while on therapy that should cover the organism is still not proof that the organism caused the infection or was a true positive finding. In order to make a definitive statement about diagnosis, additional discrepancy testing via orthogonal methods would be required. In the discussion, the authors state sensitivity and specificity after clinical adjudication, and also state that the cfDNA NGS testing “identified the cause of febrile illness in two patients with culture-negative sepsis”, which is not accurate as described above. Without true gold standard results, sensitivity and specificity are not the appropriate terms. Given the issues with clinical interpretation, the authors should provide positive and negative agreement before and after clinical adjudication, and the reasons for their interpretations should be shown. The detection of additional organisms that were not found on other tests is a potential strength of cf-mNGS testing, but is also very difficult to interpret, and there is potential for many false positives. Clinical interpretation in these cases is important, and the authors should provide more detail on their approach to this and how to deal with potential false-positive results. The interpretation of cf-mNGS test utility needs to be done using objective standards, and requires a prospective study design (without inclusion of cases with known diagnosis). The authors should show whether patients were already on empiric therapy that covered the organism detected or not, and whether any change was made to therapy decisions based on results, along with clinical outcomes of therapy. This ability (or at least potential) to modify treatment decisions based on cf-mNGS is an important outcome metric, especially since definitive outcome studies (clinical cure) require large numbers of patients to show effectiveness. However, if the cf-mNGS testing was sent retrospectively or on known diagnosis cases already under treatment, that should be stated for these cases since there is not a potential to change therapy in those situations. Essentially the reader will want to know how test results changed patient management, which is not shown here. Patient #3 (CMV viremia) seems excluded from the discussion of viral infection in the second paragraph of the discussion. The Aspergillus fumigatus case with reads detected below thresholds is interesting and could have more discussion about whether this finding would be communicated to providers for potential followup testing or correlation with other data. The presentation in Table 1 is confusing as the MPM is shown as 15 with reference value 10, seemingly a positive result above threshold, but the text states that it is below threshold. The technical description of the Karius test is fairly general, which is understandable given that it is proprietary, but it does not allow other researchers to assess it independently. More detail could be provided regarding the thresholds for reporting. For example, in the Analysis Pipeline section, the actual quantitation for “high significance” needed to report organisms that are not environmental contaminants as shown by negative controls should be shown. Adequate sequencing depth should be stated as well as the number of base pairs sequenced. The selection of organisms for reporting and organisms excluded from reporting should be referenced or potentially shown in an appendix. The methods state that MPM value is not affected by human cell-free DNA concentration, but others have shown that the human DNA portion does affect the number of reads recovered. The authors should state of reference how normalization is done to adjust for samples with differing amounts of human cell-free DNA. 