The work presented by Fjukstad et al . pursues in pushing the notion of open science in epidemiology. It describes Kvik, a web-based tool for analyzing genomic pathways. I really like the ideas behind it and value the detailed implementation section as well as the state-of-the-art techniques used. On the other hand I think that the paper should focus more on describing the epidemiological context, associated requirements and target groups to communicate the design choices for Kvik. Go into detail on the application workflow. General Feedback I like the approach the authors take with the paper. The tool they describe seems to be well suited for analyzing genomic pathways in the epidemiological context. I miss a clear statement on the papers contribution. Maybe you can put a bullet list in the Introduction section to tell the reader what things can be done with your software, which could not be done before! In my understanding, epidemiology is a very interdisciplinary in terms of associated experts. You have your clinicians deriving hypotheses from their day to day practice, statisticians deriving statistically sound conclusion as well as biologists and computer scientists associated with such projects. Which of these are your target group? When you described your target users, describe what they are trying to find out. How does your tool help them doing that? Does it allow them do their work faster? Do they derive insights they could not get before? The latter would be a huge contribution! Please give more details on the workflow of you system! I miss a clear distinction from the NIK-2014 paper " Kvik: Interactive exploration of genomic data from the NOWAC postgenome biobank ". The paper was also not cited in this work. It seems to me that the majority of the content of the presented paper can already be found in the NIK-2014 paper. Please elaborate on the differences and cite the paper. If you can not state clear differences, there is, in my opinion, no point in publishing this paper and I will rate it Not Approved . Title The title of the work is appropriate. Abstract The abstract motivates the need for new tools, which allow to assess the vast amount of epidemiological data well. In my opinion it can be improved by: reduce the amount of implementation detail. You tell the reader later on which frameworks and libraries you use explain who are your users. what can be done with your tool now, which could not be done before? Minor comments on the abstract: "Existing data exploration tools do not provide all the required functionality for such multi-study data exploration." This is a dangerous statement, since you do not say anything about what the required functionality is! I think I know what you are trying to get at, in the introduction you describe it better with: "Although an existing tool may be useful for one project, no tool provides the required functionality for several different projects." ​Introduction​ The introduction can be improved by clearly stating the contributions (e.g., as bullet points). I would like to see some reference or a method on how the five requirements were acquired. These are all things, which are important in almost all applications. Where is the difference of software in the epidemiological context towards other context and how does Kvik adapt to the arising requirements? You answer many of these questions, later on when you repeat all the requirements again, but to me it is not structured well. Methods The method section is written well. I would like to know how the users modify the R scripts (beginning second paragraph). Do they do this inside Kvik or do they have to switch into another software for it? Figure 1 caption: What can the user do now after he or she selected the gene? The workflow is not clear to me. Figure 2 was already presented very similarly in the NIK14 paper. Minor: Closing parenthesis in sentence "In our setup the Data Engine in the back-end layer provides an interface to the NOWAC data repository stored on a secure server on our local Stallo Supercomputer Table 1 provides the interfaces)." Use Case The use case section can be strengthened by reducing the amount of implementation details (in my opinion mentioning the individual function names is not necessary to comprehend the functionality) and focusing more on the involved actors and tasks and contexts associated with the use case. What feedback was given by the user(s)? Reusability The effort of the authors to make the software publicly available is worth a special note. Modern state of the art techniques are combined with powerful back-end systems, which scale well on different application scenarios.