GM604 is a potentially an interesting molecule for the treatment of ALS. Therefore, the results of this Phase IIa trial need to be carefully reviewed. There have been many similar Phase IIa trials of potentially interesting drugs for ALS, which have subsequently failed in large Phase III trials for 3 main reasons: too small numbers; the variability of ALS leads to cohort effects [better patients entering one arm of the study will make the treatment in that arm appear more favorable]; over-enthusiastic interpretation of results of a preliminary Phase II trial. I am very surprised that clinical investigators from the 2 trial sites are not included in the authorship of the paper. At the least, I would like to see a reason, and letters from the heads of those clinical sections that did the study, Drs. Cudkowicz and Mitsumoto, stating that they have read the paper and support its contents and conclusions. Without this, the current paper is a sponsor-derived report. The authors use the term "multi-center", and this should be changed to "two-center". Regarding safety: The authors should provide the FVC values for the patient who experienced respiratory distress leading to hospitalization, in order to allow assessment of whether this SAE could have been due to the drug. They should also provide more information about the rash in one patient - type, distribution, severity, response to treatment, and any resultant change in the trial. Regarding efficacy: The trial showed no significant change in the clinical parameters studied. This is not surprising since the trial only lasted 12 weeks. The differences between FVC values in the 2 sites is probably related to variability of the disease, not to treatment effect. Since the study had a placebo arm, there is no reason to include reference to historical controls, and that section of the results should be deleted. The authors comment that "to be able to measure any change in disease progression before and after treatment, the ALSFRS-R was analyzed using mixed model analysis." However, since they had pre-screening values on only 3 of their 12 subjects, no statistical model can provide such an assessment. Therefore, I do not support the assertion that they were able to examine pre-treatment progression, and recommend deletion of the statement in the Abstract that [we] "observed .... improved functional measures." Regarding biomarkers: Most of this paper is devoted to changes in potential biomarkers. Though the changes are interesting and worthy of report, the editors and the readers should understand that these changes do not prove efficacy. The gold standard remains demonstrating efficacy in clinically relevant measures of disease. Regarding the compassionate use patient: Since no significant clinical effect was seen in the 8 patients receiving active treatment and followed for 12 weeks, it is difficult to treat as reliable the unblinded clinical observations reported. This case is of interest to the sponsors of the study, but should not be included in a scientific report of this Phase IIa trial. 