The submitted material concerns a useful domain in applicative bioinformatics - development of pipelines and platforms for more or less general purposes and services in bioinformatics analyses. The major objective is to suspend the reliance of custom designed scripts and to improve the reproducibility of such software solutions. I think that the authors have managed to a large extent the improvement of the reproducibility of their software’s set of tools for vector and table manipulation, including also some basic statistical inferences and machine learning models. The efforts of the authors to have a formal general purpose platform at the end promised to have an obvious potential. Although, it is bold to speak about the certain large scale generality of the presented software – Vectools - because of the limited number of models incorporated. The lack of some very new models in Vectools is an open question and I hope that the authors are able to support the openness of the software and its future improvement. In regards to the performance speed of Vectools - it will be good to include a sort of api concerning some valuable information for speed and memory usage (which is not an easily-predicted problem in machine learning models). In regards to whether sufficient details of the code, methods and analysis were provided to allow replication of the software development and its use by others, I have answered ‘Partly’ to this question, because I think it would be worth providing the users of the software product with better documentation, which does not diminish the positive sides of the submitted material and the code. In regards to whether sufficient information is provided to allow interpretation of the expected output datasets and any results generated using the tool, the interpretation of the expected outputs is specific to every case, and depends very much on the data so should not be always certain in the very proper discussion of the results. In this line I would advise the authors to show a couple of references with wider theoretical basis for better discussion and interpretation of the outcomes of the submitted software product. In regards to whether the conclusions about the tool and its performance are adequately supported by the findings presented in the article, I think the conclusions serve to the submitted material very well but it would be worth showing the specificity of the software product in order to avoid the implied total generality of the work. Finally, I support the submitted material to be indexed, with some amendments. 