 Overall Impression : Hapalops is an important genus in sloth evolution: as a Miocene sloth it is old enough to have given rise to many later specialized genera of sloths, it exhibits cranial characters associated with both insectivory and herbivory, it is well represented in the fossil record, and there is substantial evidence that this genus was arboreal or semi-arboreal. Therefore, a detailed study of cranial morphology and inferred feeding habits is of great interest. This study parallels and expands upon previous studies by the first author on masticatory anatomy and function of other xenarthrans such as living tree sloths, the extinct sloths Nothrotheriops and Glossotherium , and living anteaters. The descriptive morphology is thorough, the illustrations are precise, the interpretations appear to be sound, and the conclusions are justified. Although the paper is well written, I have a number of comments and suggestions for minor revision outlined below. Abstract : The phrasing in this sentence is awkward and should be revised: An elevated temporomandibular joint occurs in Bradypus, a tree sloth with anterior chisel-shaped teeth instead of caniniforms, and the tree sloth Choloepus, which is aligned with the megalonychids, has anterior caniniforms ." Introduction : The statement Perhaps the young of even the largest species could climb is speculative; without evidence from fossil juvenile material why make a statement about it? White (1997) and White (2012) also presented evidence of arboreality in extinct sloths: [White, J. L. 2012. Phylogenetic and functional diversity of West Indian sloths. In: R. Borroto-Paez, C. A. Woods, and F. E. Sergile (eds.), Terrestrial Mammals of the West Indies; Contributions . Gainesville, FL: Florida Museum of Natural History Press, pp. 317-336.] [White, J. L. 1997. Locomotor adaptations in Miocene xenarthrans. In: R. F. Kay, R. H. Madden, R. L. Cifelli, J. J. Flynn (eds.), Vertebrate Paleontology in the Neotropics: The Miocene Fauna of La Venta, Colombia . Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, pp. 246-264.] Muizon et al. 2004 (cited regarding Thalassocnus ) does not appear in the reference list. The authors should reference Bargo et al. (2009), which provides an analysis of cranial morphology and feeding mechanics of Eucholaeops , another Miocene megatherioid sloth. [Bargo et al. 2009. Predominance of orthal masticatory movements in the Early Miocene Eucholaeops (Mammalia, Xenarthra, Tardigrada, Megalonychidae) and other megatherioid sloths. J. Vertebrate Paleontology 29(3): 870-880.] Materials and Methods : Bradypus and Choloepus were used to infer muscle position in Hapalops . These sloths have very different facial morphologies, so how was it determined which to use for comparison? The authors state No Hapalops crania or mandibles were sufficiently complete or uncrushed to allow articulation . Table 1 lists four specimens with both skull and mandible; were these in such poor condition that they could not be articulated? An explanation of how the line of action of muscles was determined should be included in Methods. Results : Figure 2: the caption has a spelling error in the word . The statement Animals with a farther lateral superior temporal line are probably younger, is again speculative; is there other evidence to support a juvenile status, such as suture morphology? Section on Mandibular Bony Features References should be provided for statements about sloth autapomorphies (under lingual and lateral view characters). Reiss (1997) discusses plesiomorphic states in the feeding apparatus for xenarthrans, along with derived conditions in myrmecophagids perhaps this paper deserves to be cited. [Reiss K.Z. 1997. Myology of the feeding apparatus of Myrmecophagid anteaters (Xenarthra: Myrmecophagidae). J. Mammalian Evolution 4(2): 87-117.] Regarding the section on mandibular lateral view characters: the mental nerve is a branch of the mandibular division of trigeminal (V 3 ) which supplies motor innervation to muscles of mastication and carries sensory innervation from the lips; motor innervation to muscles of the lips (e.g. M. orbicularis oris, M. depressor labii inferioris) is supplied by the facial nerve. Regarding the section on mandibular dentition: a reference is needed for the statement that large interdental spaces are unusual in herbivores, and for the statement that unfused zygomatic arches distinguish pilosans from most other mammals. Reconstruction of Cranial Musculature Figure 8: How is it determined exactly where lines of action of muscles are? Is this simply based on the apparent mid-point of each muscle scar? In the discussion of M. temporalis, the last sentence of the first paragraph should refer to Figure 10B (not 9A). A reference is needed for the statement about M. buccinatorius having many patterns among mammals. Figure 5: Where is the distinction between M. rectus capitis posterior major et minor? Is this muscle called M. rectus capitis dorsalis in the text, but posterior in the figure? Figure 5: Does M. obliquus superioris (as labeled in the figure) represent M. obliquus capitis cranialis and caudalis (as referenced in text)? The first sentence under Palatine Musculature is incomplete. Discussion : McAfee (2011) should be cited as the paper discusses characters associated with herbivorous feeding in sloths and derives bite force estimates. [McAfee, R.K. 2011. Feeding mechanics and dietary implications in Neocnus (Mammalia) Xenarthra: Megalonychidae from Haiti. J. Morphology 272 (10): 1204-1216.] What is the functional significance of pterygoid flange extension? White (1997) [see citation above] also proposed arboreality in Hapalops. Section on osteological adaptations and correlations: In the phrase In many mammals, such as Choloepus and carnviorans, , the word carnivorans is misspelled. The phrase much weaker than that of the similarly sized buccinators, Nematherium is unclear. What is meant by ? Section on osteological adaptations and correlations: I question how accurate the estimate of 105 degrees (summed lines of action of superficial masseter and medial pterygoid) is when it is unclear how the lines of actions of muscles were derived. Also, what is the functional significance of this value for these muscles in Hapalops in comparison to those of the living tree sloths? It is difficult to evaluate the validity of the bite force estimates in Hapalops that are derived from unpublished analyses by McAfee. 