The article discusses the important topic of capacity building for priority setting in health in LMIC’s, by a research collaboration which draws on broad experience and expertise. The article reviews current knowledge on the topic, uses a framework to organise capacity building for different levels and stakeholders, and provides a useful way of documenting the wide range of groups and activities that are required to strengthen capacity for priority setting in health. Comments:- The title is a bit misleading as it suggests that the topic is about evidence informed approaches to capacity building, but then presents very limited evidence of approaches to capacity building for priority setting. Perhaps the title should be ‘Capacity building for evidence informed health priority setting in LMIC’s? The scope of priority setting in health in the context of this article is not clearly defined. The article starts and ends by broadly discussing priority setting in health in LMIC’s, and links this loosely to Universal Health Coverage (UHC). The body of the article and the framework however focuses almost entirely on capacity building for Health Technology Assessment. It is therefore not clear whether the intention was to review capacity building needs for HTA specifically or more broadly for priority setting for programmes and other activities in the health sector. It would be useful to clarify this for readers, as HTA does require a specific set of technical skills and understanding both by producers and users of the knowledge, which may differ from other forms of priority setting. Capacity building is discussed broadly as a process, and the article focuses on stakeholder mapping to identify the levels and groups that require capacity building. The ‘capacities required’ again focuses more on HTA as a ‘content’ area, than a broad approach to priority setting in health, for which a more comprehensive approach would be required to include assessment of need, societal preferences, participatory processes etc. Very little is said about capacity for good governance and leadership in priority setting, and ways in which these should be strengthened as a critical component of improving priority setting in health systems in LMIC’s. It would be useful to reflect on these and how the proposed framework could include these components of the health system. 