 Summary: The authors should be congratulated on an excellent article reporting an analysis of routinely collected clinical data. They have addressed a clinically relevant subject and with an important research question and a plausible and intuitive underlying hypothesis. Although retrospective, the study methodology is good and the statistical analysis is appropriate. The results are clear, although the manner of presentation could be improved. The discussion is informative and educational. The study limitations are appropriately recognised and discussed, and suggestions for future investigation are made. The conclusions are well supported by the data. Abstract Clear and concise. It describes the background, results and the conclusions accurately. Introduction The introduction provides a clear and concise summary of the clinical background and relevance of the study. The proposed hypothesis is clinically very relevant and plausible. The specific aims of the study are stated clearly. Methods The description of the methods is completely clear. Appropriate methodology was applied. To assess the influence of ketamine on sedative and vasopressor requirements, the authors arbitrarily chose, by consensus, definitions of clinically meaningful minimal changes in medication after the start of ketamine infusion . This is a reasonable approach. The statistical analysis is clearly described and is appropriate. Results We have two comments about the presentation of the results. The first is that table 2 is somewhat confusing. It is not clear what the and infusion rates refer to. We suggest that the authors clearly state the time period over which these maximum and minimum infusion rates were determined. If these rates are not the rates after starting ketamine, then we suggest that the authors present the median (IQR, range) infusion rates during some (arbitrary) time period after starting ketamine. Our second comment about the results concerns the consistency of units used in presentation of sedative and vasopressor infusion rates. In the methods the authors state arbitrarily chosen definitions of clinically meaningful changes in medication. These thresholds are defined in mcg/kg/min units for each of the drugs. In the text and in table 2 of the results, the infusion rates of fentanyl and midazolam are reported in different units (mcg/min). Thereafter the authors only report the numbers of patients in which there was a clinically relevant change. To more easily give the reader an idea of the magnitude of the relative changes in infusion rate of fentanyl and midazolam, we suggest that for these drugs the before and ketamine infusion rates are also presented in mcg/kg/min. Discussion Discussion is very well written and informative. The study limitations are well recognised. The conclusions are supported by the data. References Appropriate use of references