This report by Jansen et al describes comparison of de novo assemblies generated using Illumina or Oxford Nanopore sequence for the yeast Candida varitovaarae. The sequenced isolate was collected from a screen for new ethanologenic yeast species. Genomic DNA was sequenced using both platforms and de novo assemblies compared for overall metrics and representation of the mitochondrial genome. The final assembly was compared to those of other related yeast species to view conservation of synteny. Overall this is an interesting study in showing the advantage of utilizing long Oxford nanopore reads for assembly of a genome that was difficult to assemble using Illumina data. This description would be more compelling if the authors could address a few issues with the presentation of this data. 1. In addition to genome size, the major factors that can influence the outcome of a de novo assembly are the repetitive sequence content, GC content, and level of heterozygosity. The authors suggest that repetitive sequence could explain large number of contigs; this could be directly addressed by identifying repetitive sequences in the assembly and evaluating contig ends. However there is also the suggestion in the text of some level of heterozygosity, which could better account for the low contig N50 they report in the Illumina assemblies. Whether or not the species is diploid and if so the level of heterozygosity is important to address in evaluating the performance of the two sequencing approaches and documenting the genomes for which long reads are most useful. This could be addressed for example using the Illumina data to identify heterozygous variants across the assembly. 2. The authors use Pilon to correct the assembled contigs with Illumina data and note that this led to a minor increase in size of the assembly, suggesting there were some misassembled regions in the original Canu assembly. As the other genomes compared using Nucmer are distantly related, with many rearrangements, this could not be used to validate the Canu assembly. It would be helpful if the authors could more fully describe the errors identified and fixed by Pilon. 3. Along the same lines, which statistics are for the final, best version of the assembly? Table 1 compares different combinations of Oxford Chemistry, however the authors also describe an additional step of Pilon polishing. It would be useful to contrast metrics, including sequence coverage levels and GC content, to those from the 2 Spades assemblies, as well as note which assembly is the final version. 4. In Figure 1, the top scale is too small to read. Plotting the GC as a separate track would be helpful to compare to the R7 coverage level. 5. For the PFG in Figure 3, a longer run may help separate the bright high MW band into separate chromosomes. 6. The data does not appear to be submitted to a public repository; both the raw sequence and the final best assembly should be submitted to NCBI or the ENA. 