The authors present the study protocol of a randomized controlled study to investigate the effect of a commercially available product (Tocovid Suprabio) that includes Tocotrienol, an Vitamin E isomer, against a placebo group, on the prevention of postoperative atrial fibrillation (AFib) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The topic is of general interest. Postoperative AFib is common, is associated with complications and morbidity, thus consumes many resources and is, in part, potentially preventable. Because oxidative stress has been established as key mechanism, relatively cheap antioxidant treatment could be effective. The sample size under the current plan was calculated as 140 patients in each arm for a power of 0.8. The ambitious study plan has some important shortcomings that must be addressed. As the authors correctly note, postoperative AFib is assumed to be a multifactorial event and may be triggered by mechanisms other than oxidative stress. That has severe impact on exclusion criteria and statistical power calculations, that is difficult to assess for me without further information. The authors correctly note that the use of cardiopulmonary bypass is involved in ischemia-reperfusion injury and radical oxygen species (ROS) generation. On page 3 it its stated that it is thought in consequence that off-pump surgery would reduce the incidence of AFib. I miss references, a clear statement whether or not this is thought to be a fact. In any case I would strongly suggest not to include off-pump patients and mix up the cohorts with on-pump cases. It is difficult to precisely quantify the difference from a metabolic point, and it appears impossible to draw a conclusion on the effect of a given dose with unknown blood and tissue concentrations on different levels and sources of ROS. What is known about the pharmacokinetics of the product? How quick and (in)complete must absorption be expected? What levels in blood and tissue can be achieved? Are interactions and competing drugs known? The authors "propose using a more potent isomer of vitamin E, namely Tocotrienol, instead of the usual Tocopherol" (page 3). However in describing the commercially available drug on page 4 (Tocovid Suprabio by Hocid Berhad) it is clearly expressed, that the capsule contains Tocopherol (!) besides Tocopherol. So how will the investigators ever know which component, if any, was effective? The authors aim at assessing the health-related quality of life in patients undergoing cardiac surgery; by definition a very sick group of elderly patients with usually many co-morbidities and with much drug intake. This aim is an extremely difficult matter involving many critical sources of definition, assessment tools (including SF-36), error and bias and I doubt that a meaningful result can be obtained. According to the study protocol patients are required to take the capsules "before" and immediately following CABG. Before is defined as "immediately after randomization" on page 4. It is quite normal that even elective cardiac surgery can not always be planned precisely on the exact day and hour, must be delayed for medical or organizational reasons. Therefore there will be patients with various time intervals of capsule intake and supposedly different blood and tissue concentrations of the study medication! Capsules intake should last for approx 6 weeks until the first follow-up. Nearly all cases of AFib occur within the first 4 days postoperative. It is extremely rare to observe first-time AFib later than that. Although the long intake is ambitious how do the investigators control full compliance? Again, bioavailibility is an issue. The authors state on page 4 that bioavailibility of oral Tocotrienol is as low as 10-30%; how long before surgery must the drug be given to guarantee an effective availability in all patients of the non-placebo group? Is the trial controlled for interference with other drugs, malabsorption, possibly even gastric resections or concomitant intestinal disease etc that may prevent the study drug to be taken up effectively? Definitely exclude patients undergoing concomitant valve surgery (page 4)! Operating times are longer, the heart will be OPEN with further exposure to ROS-producing surfaces and valve pathologies, stretch and surgical maneuvers are all known to cause and influence postoperative AFib. Up to 7% of patients following aortic valve replacement require permanent pacemakers anyway! Again, I would also suggest not to mix on- and off-pump patients. Holter ECG, very essential, will be monitored for the first 5 days, which makes sense. The study drug is given for approx 6 weeks. There will be no continuous ECG monitoring between discharge and follow-up. Unless the patient would be symptomatic and decides to see a physician who may be able to make a documentation, investigators are likely never to know whether there was an episode of AFib at any time between 1 and 6 weeks after surgery. I miss any information on potential PREoperative AFib assessment; or at least the exclusion of patients with AFib or other arrhythmias before surgery! And authors should exclude patients with vitamin or antioxidant intake before randomization! Check for all medications as many are known to exert antioxidant side effects. Finally I would consider it extremely valuable to obtain blood samples and analyse various ROS and vitamin concentrations (or at least the antioxidant capacity) to proof that any clinical outcome is directly linked to a mechanism as hypothesized. Otherwise, any outcome can be spurious and by chance, in principle and by definition. 