This Research Note by Majeed et al. is a comprehensive educational module for high school and college students, focusing on optogenetic modulation of Drosophila locomotor behaviour (either larval or adult) using a combination of channel-rhodopsin effectors and neuron-specific driver lines. The methods and results are clearly presented, detailed and economically viable to initiate. Teaching students using this approach will expose them to the scientific method and directly observe a link between neuroscience theory and its application. As such, I support this module, but have several suggestions below for how it might be improved: The introduction requires re-writing. My main critique is that the topics discussed in the introduction do not match the experiments in the main text. All experiments focus on acute modulation of behaviour by activating subsets of the fly's neuronal repertoire. However, the introduction focuses more on the link between activity and neuronal development. However, neurodevelopment in Drosophila (e.g studying synaptic growth at the larval NMJ) is not a component of this module. It would be more appropriate to discuss how different circuits in the mammalian and fly brain regulate specific behavioural patterns, and how activity within these circuits can be manipulated by researchers using opsins etc. The sentence '...GABA (glutamate, serotonin, acetylcholine)...' in paragraph 5 might lead students to think that GABA is an acronym for 'glutamate, serotonin, acetylcholine' - this should be re-worded. The grammar in the first paragraph could also be improved. The methods related to fly strains and crosses could be expanded. For example, details of the fly life cycle would be helpful, and to stress the temperature-dependence of the generation time. If an instructor or a student is setting up crosses, they need to know when the progeny will be ready to experiment on: this in turn will depend on how the flies are housed. For sexing, while testing for the presence of sex-combs is indeed reliable, memorising the differences in male/female abdominal anatomy is a much more rapid method. Will the students/examiners know the difference between a virgin and non-virgin female? Methods to discern this could be described, or at least referenced. The fly food recipe could be referenced too. Finally, two of the transgenic fly strains (58374 and 51630) have the CyO balancer floating, so it may be useful to mention that these need to be used as non- curly homozygotes for larval experiments when setting up crosses. The authors give some nice examples of electrophysiological recordings from muscles during optogenetic stimulation of motor- or ppk -neurons. Are these recordings from their lab or from the literature (if so, a reference would be appropriate)? More importantly, as mentioned by the high school teacher, these results might be difficult for high school students to understand if they have not been taught the basics of neurotransmission. Could the authors more clearly delineate which data are more appropriate for high school vs. college students? In the legend of Figure 8, the authors state that type VI sensory neurons were studied, but I think they mean type IV. In Figure 13B, the schematic shows the stimulation pipette injecting current into the CNS, whereas it should be the other way round: the segmental nerve should be innervating the muscle and have the electrode attached at the proximal end relative to the CNS. 