 This is an interesting article reporting on a study investigating how reduced pollen supply influences reproduction of self-compatible versus self-incompatible plants of an alpine cushion species and its interaction with associated species. The main strength of the study is that of providing hints on the potential role that factors other than environmental conditions can play in modulating species interactions. In a relatively recent work by Maestre et al. (2009), stress has been divided into two major types, resource and non-resource. I am not sure whether pollen availability can be seen as a resource, but I would not have major issues with viewing pollinator availability as a quantifiable, limiting resource. Maybe, these concepts could be touched upon somewhere in the Introduction. The main weakness of the study is the lack of quantification of pollen delivery in different treatments: I think the authors should try to give the reader, at the very least, a gross idea of the order of magnitude of differences between natural and artificial pollen supply. The second point is that there is not a formal gradient of pollen supply, as this implies more than two levels. This does not impinge on the robustness of the results, but limits the insight the study offers into the Stress Gradient Hypothesis. Finally, both in the Abstract and MM I did not get clearly who the benefactors and beneficiary were. Actually, only from the Results did I understand that you were analyzing the effects of species hosted by the cushion on the cushion-forming species. I sense that referring to the cushion and associated species might be a better solution. SPECIFIC COMMENTS Introduction It is not clear what grounds the alternative model for pollinator abundance (increasing with elevation) in alpine environments builds upon. In the Introduction, you refer to the stress source sometimes as pollination supply and sometimes as reduced pollen or less pollen. It would be useful to specify if the limiting resource is pollen supply (which implies reduced production by plants) or pollinator abundance (I guess the second, from the model you propose in the Introduction). Is there any evidence of competition between hermaphrodite and female plants when pollen is not limiting? Material Methods You need to be consistent in the way you refer to hermaphrodite plants. Some plants could receive pollen from insects while others were covered with mesh and hand-pollinated. It is not clear how insect versus hand pollination generated a gradient of pollen supply. Do you assume that delivery of pollen by insect was much higher? If so, which order of magnitude? Instead of testing the effect of beneficiaries on measures of reproductive success over a range of environmental gradients (Bertness Callaway, 1994) we tested whether variation in the current and experimentally reduced pollen supply can be viewed as potential stressor . Again, it is not clear here who is expected to be facilitated and by whom (see my general comments). Likely, it would be useful to be more specific in your predictions at the end of the Introduction. Also, switch beneficiary and % fruit set in the last sentence of the Abstract (the way it is, it suggests that you are mainly looking at effect of fruit set on beneficiary abundance). Results Estimates of effects could be reported in Tables, so as to give an idea of their direction. The relationship with beneficiary abundance explains little variation in % fruit set (Fig. 3), suggesting that other factors are of overwhelming importance. This point should be made clear in the Discussion. Discussion It would be interesting if the authors could offer a possible explanation for a positive relationship between beneficiary abundance and % fruit set under reduced pollen supply. What are the potential mechanisms? 