I enjoyed reading this article and recommend it for indexation. I appreciate the authors understanding of todays students, who are different from those of a generation ago particularly in their attitudes and expectations of their digital learning environment. As this article indicates, course instructors and designers can be more effective in their instruction by leveraging todays learners skills and abilities. There are two important messages for educators here. Use Moodle more effectively. The authors present a before-and-after description of their redesign of a course Moodle page. It is common, as the authors say, for course organizers to use Moodle as an electronic filing system, but this usage does not particularly enhance a course. Rather, Moodle can be integrated into the course design to help students to navigate assignments and expectations. Furthermore, images and design elements are not difficult to incorporate into Moodle pages yet provide them with the contemporary feel our digital learners have come to expect. I would encourage the authors to disseminate their good ideas by sharing generic Moodle pages and template with others. The expression Something to read, something to do, something to think about provides a simple mnemonic device for instructors when designing a course and students when negotiating it that I think will enhance teaching and learning independently of the digital environment. As someone who has navigated several MOOCs, keeping track of assignments can be tricky; a schedule that requires certain tasks to be performed weekly will make the students job easier. I also like the way these three tasks span the spectrum of teaching methods: read this (student is relatively passive), do this (student must be more active), think about this (student must step back and grasp the big ideas that the first two tasks lead to). This framework will also help instructors make sure that their reading lists and assignments are more than just busy work but are truly relevant to the weeks objectives. Two small suggestions: I first read this as a printed PDF without hyperlinks, so I would have appreciated having all of the in-text references listed in the References section (e.g., Breen, 1999; Horvath Loge, 2015 etc.). Also, I found Figure 7 confusing. There seems to be a formatting problem on the Y axis. Furthermore, although the legend says ..Where 1 is a negative and 4 is a positive the legend in the graph suggests that the leftmost column (blue) means Agree, which confuses me. Somehow this graph needs to be clarified. 