It is unclear if the authors realize that cost-effectiveness is a tool employed by decision makers to arrive at a decision regarding resource allocation. Given that early versus delayed ART is not debatable any more, the researchers need to motivate their study in this context i.e. decision makers already agreed to initiate ART early in TB/HIV patients from a clinical point-of-view and public health perspective to avert new TB cases. The study is not well motivated for economic evaluation. Issues surrounding why cost-effectiveness of the study is useful are not explained The decision analysis tree needs to be simplified. As it is now, it is a busy figure. Secondly, the argument that the outcome of interest is short term is not true i.e. is death from TB a short outcome event? Which outcome are the researchers referring to for the 12 weeks period? I think, if they intend to pursue this question further, they need to employ Markov modelling as well. Under model time horizon, the authors infer that latent TB is treated for 12 weeks. This appears to be in contradiction to WHO guidelines for 6-9 months of treatment for latent TB. It is also not clear from the outset that the authors are treating for latent TB. In the beginning, I thought the study referred to TB/HIV co-infection from the disease point of view i.e. HIV patient with signs symptoms of TB. Literature for model parameters appears to be so limited. Authors need to utilize assumptions based on standard practice guidelines issued by for example the WHO. Authors need to be clear which costs were considered. The general approach to the study is appropriate. However, the authors need to refer to this work to improve the quality of reporting of their report: JAMA. 1996 Oct 23-30;276(16):1339-41. Recommendations for reporting cost-effectiveness analyses. Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine. It is likely that the authors conclude that early versus delayed ART in TB/HIV patients is not cost-effective because of the limited time horizon, assumptions on duration of treatment, unclear disease being treated i.e. latent TB infection or TB disease in HIV patients and limited literature search. Moreover, these are not well discussed. The argument that an intervention is not cost-effective based on threshold of 3 GDP per capita is debatable nowadays. Authors need to consult more about this. Finally, the discussion section is so limited and it does not adequately discuss the results of the study. Including the implications of the findings considering the current treatment guidelines for TB/HIV patients. This needs to be improved.