I read with interest the paper by Dr. Ali et al., describing a case-control study on thyroid function and autoimmunity during pregnancy among women with GDM. The study was small, but adequately powered to answer the study question - if women with GDM have poorer thyroid function or more thyroid antibodies than women without GDM. The statistical methods were adequately used in the study. My concern with the methods was with the description of the control group, who are referred as healthy pregnant women. I would prefer that the controls would be described as women without GDM as the reader is not aware if these women have other pregnancy complications such as preeclampsia or fetal growth restriction. Another concern was the definition of euthyroidism - the Figure 1 clearly shows that some women had high TSH concentrations during pregnancy, some of which exceeded that of recommended euthyroid range specified by the American Thyroid Association, for instance. How did the authors define euthyroidism? The definition needs to be added to the Methods. Also, the authors should consider using a pregnancy-specific definition of euthyroidism, which may affect their results. At least they should do a sensitivity analysis after excluding women with TSH higher than pregnancy-specific reference ranges to see if their results hold. The observed results could be due to underlying hypothyroidism among women with GDM - this should also be discussed in more detail. Also, it would be interesting to see a comparison between women with GDM with normal BMI and controls with normal BMI to see if GDM has an independent effect on thyroid function and autoimmunity irrespective of BMI. However, I wonder if the study population is big enough for this type of analysis. Specific comments: Abstract In the Objectives please correct 'thyroid dysfunctions' to thyroid dysfunction. In the Methods please note that thyrotropin is a pituitary hormone, not a thyroid hormone. Please also add information on the statistical methods used in the Methods-section of the abstract. In the Results please add explanation as to what the figures are in the parentheses. Please also pay special note on the spacing between words, it seem some spaces are lacking. Introduction The physiological changes in thyroid function during pregnancy are well described and accepted by the medical community. Therefore it was weird that the authors referred these as hypothesized and claimed (the first few sentences in the first paragraph). Could the authors reword these sentences? Methods Please add the conversion factor for plasma glucose levels to mmol/l. Please also add the laboratory method used to measure glucose, if available. If not available, please indicate if glucose was measured by a laboratory that participates in an external quality control program. In the Statistics section, please change 'Continue variables' to 'Continuous variables'. Results I presume that the gestational age in Table 1 is the timepoint when women entered the study? If so, please indicate this more clearly. Throughout the manuscript, please spell Kg as kg. Instead of decreased, I would use the word lower when describing differences between GDM cases and controls. Please round all results to two decimals as they are more meaningful clinically (also applies to Table 2). Table 1 Please add a space between the mean and SD. Please correct Kg/cm 2 to kg/m 2 Discussion Second line: please correct to 'an association' I think the study by Cleary-Goldman et al. studied the association between thyroid dysfunction and GDM, not the other way around (a subtle but important difference). I would love to see some discussion on the iodine status of the studied population.