This manuscript reports on the results of a fully automated RCT that compared the Smoke Free app with and without 30 days of behavior change technique skills for quitting and preventing relapse ("missions"). Major strengths: The scientific premise of the study is strong. Determining the added value of behavior change techniques for smoking cessation is useful in any context (not just apps) so the study affords a real-world opportunity to test the techniques' potential effectiveness. Testing the effectiveness of a widely utilized app in real-world conditions of consumers actually downloading to help them quit smoking is valuable from the point of view of implementation research. And perhaps that is the best context from which to frame this study--a real world implementation study. Novelty. There is a dearth of studies comparing apps for smoking cessation so the study adds to a small and important literature. Major weaknesses: Trial was not registered. This is a very serious weaknesses that impacts ethical obligations to participants, research community, and publication bias. Reputable journals would not even consider reviewing this paper knowing that is was not registered. The authors are aware of this weakness and I have no reason to believe they acted intentionally unethically. Nonetheless, it would be appropriate not to title the study a randomized trial or use that term in the abstract. Instead, I recommend the authors use the same term employed in methods section of the study design: "Exploratory Study." The authors themselves call it that. Now they just need to make it clear up front. Very low retention rate (7.5%) that appears to imbalanced by a relative rate of 24% between arms. This is a very unfortunate weakness that could have been avoided with some small and immediate incentives given that only one question is asked in the follow-up survey. Nonetheless, it is what it is. The level of bias from this extent of missing data (92.5%) cannot be overcome with imputation methods. And the argument that the relative difference (not absolute quit rate) is what matters for this study is undermined by the imbalanced retention rates. With 24% more data in one arm than the other, it very possible that the difference in quit rates is simply driven by the difference in retention rates. Moderate weaknesses: The main outcome of continuous abstinence after baseline is biased by differences in quit dates and simply does not give people enough time to even reach their quit date before they would already be counted a smoker. Thus, the actual quit rates could be higher. Its hard to say with this outcome. Generalizablity is overstated for two reasons. The low retention rate makes the sample highly biased toward the most motivated people who are most likely to be reporting that they quit. Comparing the baseline characteristics of all those enrolled vs only those completed the outcome survey item would be very important and instructive about bias. The second reason it is overstated is that the sample is limited to those who have already chosen an app and this particular app to help them quit smoking. The sample age (29) is young for a mhealth smoking study, which typically is about age 40. 