Maugard et al. identify a major difficulty in analyzing probe test data from the watermaze which typically consists of time (in sec) or proportions of time (%) spent in each of four quadrants of the pool. While it is straightforward to suppose that more time should be spent in the training quadrant, leading some to analyze only that quadrant, a better method would be to use a mathematical approach that recognizes that the time in all 4 quadrants must add to 100% but their distribution is of interest. Some authors have attempted (upon advice) to address the quadrants problem by reducing the numerator degrees of freedom by 1 (e.g. Morris), but this is unlikely to be statistically adequate, and anyway suffers from issues associated with the normality of the data etc. What is proposed here is something called the Dirichlet distribution which explicitly recognizes the summation to 100% problem and provides a mathematical way of looking at more than just the training quadrant. This innovation seems valuable, but I add a qualification. This is that the watermaze is, essentially, no more than a pool of water with a hidden platform in which a large variety of different tasks can be run. That most users of the watermaze use only the standard reference memory task does not mean that other variants are not of interest - reversal learning (Hans-Peter Lipp and David Wolfer, Univ Zurich), the delayed match to place task (Morris, e.g. Steele and Morris Hippocampus 1999 1 ), and procedures for dissociating encoding and retrieval (e.g. Rossato et al. Current Biology 2018 2 ). These other procedures are of analytical interest. However, they may still require probe test data (e.g. Rossato et al. 2018 2 ). My recommendation is that the paper be provisionally accepted - it makes a very valuable point - but attention must be paid to the fact there is not just one single task that can be run in a watermaze. There is greater potential. To add also, there are a large variety of measures of performance including latency, path-length, directionality, proximity index and all the measures associated with a probe test. Given this, the thrust of the paper is arguably less novel than the authors surmise, albeit this being a very clever solution to an unsolved problem associated with probe tests. Recommendation: index subject to small revisions (as advised above). 