Below are my major concerns: The abstract does not provides an adequate summary of the article. The authors have claimed much higher scope of their work than actually reported. While their work is restricted to folate transporters, they have claimed to work on whole folate pathway. In the Abstract: "We applied a combination of bioinformatics methods to examine the genomes of pathogens in the EupathDB for genes encoding homologues of proteins that mediate folate salvage in a bid to identify and assign putative functions." "These findings offer new possibilities for potential drugConclusion: development targeting folate-salvage proteins." No proper justification for the work is provided. a) While folate pathway is well established as drug target, the authors have only identified folate transporters. So please give examples of drugs (with names) which are known to target folate transporters in any organism. If no sufficient information is provided, the usefulness of the work is severely reduced. b) How many of folate transporters are essential in species where essentiality data is available such as P. berghei and T. gondii? The methodology to identify transporters is not comprehensive. Since authors have used key-word searches to identify folate transporters, they are likely to miss many transporters not labelled as such. An appropriate methodology will incorporate profile (such as HMM) based searches. Thus the number of transporters identified by authors is most likely to be an underestimate. The methodology is not clear. Authors write that "we utilized the word “folate” for search on the gene text and “folic acid” was used to confirm the hits", then how only transporters were retrieved? The Figure 1 is confusing. Where is BLAST used here? The manuscript is written very poorly with so many scientific and grammatical mistakes that it is very difficult for the reader to follow the manuscript. Below are some examples. a) "The mitochondrion is the predicted location of the majority of the proteins, with 15% possessing signal peptides." - how can mitochondria be majority location if only 15% have signal peptides and even less with mitochondrial signal peptide? Shouldn't the majority then be cytoplasmic? b) "We identified 234 proteins to be involve in folate transport". c) "Since folate-binding protein YgfZ, folate/ pteridine transporter, folate/biopterin transporter, putative, reduced folate carrier family protein, folate/methotrexate transporter FT1, putative folate transporters alone and others have 10, 25, 132, 2, 7, 49 and 9." What are these numbers? d) "So we decided to reconstruct the phylogeny based folate transporter, folate-biopterin transporter after considering the identification number, the species diversity in each category." e) "The different proteins identified to be involved in folate salvage or related molecules were folatebinding protein YgfZ, folate/pteridine transporter, folate/biopterin transporter, reduced folate carrier family protein, folate/methotrexate transporter FT1 and folate transporters having a 4%, 11%, 56%, 1%, 3% and 21% identity, respectively." What does this statement mean? f) Does Table 1 really need to be 4 page long? g) "The only Plasmodium species with results for proteins that salvage folate was P. falciparum" h) "However, folate transporters I and II were retrieved from our search of GeneDB for P. malariae and P. ovale curtisi, respectively." What are these transporter classes? i) "Some of these pathogens include P. ultimum DAOM BR144, which has mitochondrial folate transporter/carrier proteins similar to Homo sapiens, E. cuniculi GB-M1, which has proteins similar to folate transporter, and S. punctatus DAOM BR117, which has folate-binding protein YgfZ." j) "After phylogenetic analysis each sub-phylogeny show a clear characterization except for folate-biopterin transporters" h) "In this study, 234 genes encoding homologues of folate salvaging proteins were identified in the genome of 64 strains, representing 28 species of eukaryotic pathogens. Some of the pathogens include P. falciparum 3D7 and IT, P. knowlesi H, P. berghei ANKA, P. chabaudi chabaudi, T. brucei Lister 427, T. brucei TREU927, T. brucei gambiense DAL972, Encephalitozoon cuniculi GB-M1. The pathogens range from bacteria through to fungi, intracellular parasites such as Plasmodium and leishmania species, to extracellular parasites such as trypanosome species" Which bacteria was included in the study? i) "It has been estimated that over half of the drugs currently on the market target integral membrane proteins of which membrane transporters are a part, but unfortunately, these transporters have not been adequately explored as drug targets. Folate transporters therefore represent attractive drug targets for treatment of infectious diseases." Please tell us how many drugs are available in the market which target folate transporters, which is a more relavant statistic with respect to this study. j) "In the trypanosomes and related kinetoplastids, a member of these transporters, the folate biopterin transporter (FBT) family of proteins was identified in Leishmania." k) "It is thought that MFS proteins are related to the FBT." What is MFS? l) "Results from our study describing the presence of these transporters across several phyla corroborate results other researches, establishing the conservation of folate transport function among FBT family proteins from species from plants and protists". m) "The clustering of these proteins suggests that these transport proteins have highly conserved regions often required for basic cellular function or stability". The clustering does not suggest that these transport proteins have highly conserved regions often required for basic cellular function or stability. n) " We also performed phylogenetic comparisons of identified proteins. .". 