This is an important piece of work that examines the effectiveness of malaria control interventions in programmatic, non-research settings. Whilst such studies do not deliver the same quality of evidence as randomised trials, they provide important insights, and their sheer volume provides an understanding that we do not get from efficacy trials. This is particularly important for interventions like IRS, which have a wealth of programmatic evidence of effectiveness, but a dearth of randomised trials demonstrating impact. To see this body of work brought together and systematically synthesised in this paper is a great achievement indeed. Studies such as the ones that are included in this review are by their very nature somewhat messy and subject to bias and confounding. They therefore need to be interpreted with caution, and in relation to the available trial evidence, where this exists. This has largely been done in this review. Perhaps a bit more could have been said about adjustment for confounding other than by age, and the discussion could have mentioned the strong possibility of publication bias against non-significant findings. One group of studies that have not been included here are studies that compare post intervention outcomes with pre-intervention outcome in the same population. These studies are of course also methodologically flawed, but given the nature of this review I would have thought that some should have been eligible. This is particularly true for IRS studies where it is difficult to obtain measures of effect from cross-sectional surveys because the intervention acts at a community level, and because non-randomised contemporaneous control communities are as problematic as the before versus after design. Some studies have recorded such large changes in outcomes after the introduction of IRS, that it is unlikely that this is not associated with the intervention. Studies which represent an interrupted time series (for example Sharp et al , 2007) are particularly convincing in this regard. To me this review seems somewhat incomplete without their consideration. However, I fully accept that the authors may have had good reason for the exclusion of such studies from this review. A point to add to the discussion is the possibility of the impact of insecticide resistance on effectiveness, particularly in the case of IRS. A minor point is to use the term ‘susceptibility’ (of vectors to insecticide), rather than ‘sensitivity’ (presumably a translation issue). 