Efficient allocation of limited research resources is a central policy issue for international development agencies, developing-country governments, and their agricultural research institutes. Priority setting in agricultural research systems is a principal means of ensuring the effectiveness of investment in agricultural research. The new CGIAR has emphasize more on research impact on development. As part of the CGIAR research program on dryland cereal and legumes, this paper developed an open access dataset and information resource that provides the basis for future analysis of the geographic dimensions of dryland cereals and legumes. The foremost important contribution of this paper is to integrate multiple global spatial databases on cropping system, livestock and biophysical conditions for setting the priority. These newly available datasets allows the priority setting at crop-type level in a truly spatially explicit manner. The use of geographic information system (GIS) and spatial analysis captured the effects of agroecological variation and huge spatial heterogeneity of farming system, the response of agricultural technologies, the technological spillovers. The next strength of the paper is its open access. The paper itself is open access. The datasets used in the paper is also openly available. Interested users could download these datasets and repeat/improved the analysis undertook in the paper. The weakness is the methodology section. While the paper spent quite some effort/sections on data sources, summary of results, the methodology is quite short and not clear. Admittedly the readers are referred to the well-known farming system framework by Dixon et al., and the authors’ previous work. The methodology should be updated and improved with the new datasets and tools. A brief summary is warranted. Technical details on how to deal with spatial fragmentation (e.g due to many different data layers) would be helpful for those who would like to learn and repeat the analysis of this paper.