 Introduction: I could see some improvement in the introduction structure, however, it is still not structured enough to explain the importance of this research. For example, there is no explanation in the introduction about why it is important to investigate whether or not the relationship between residue incorporation and infiltration holds "under crop rotation" (which is stated as one of the aims of this research). I could not find from where this aim came from by reading this introduction. Similar comment for the other aim; the reference cited about wheat straw quantity and infiltration relationship under sub-tillage is way too old, and the description of plant root mass effect is unclear to support the importance of the second aim. Which kind of effect are you talking about by describing "that plant root mass is related to rill and ephemeral gully erosion"? Also what do you mean by "the effect of residue incorporation is unclear"? If it is not clear, then how do you define and evaluate whether or not 1) "the relation between residue incorporation and infiltration" holds under crop rotation, and 2) whether or not root mass influences "this relation"? Also the authors are mainly writing about no-tillage results in the introduction, and failed to summarize enough references that have investigated the effect of residues under tilled conditions. There are many papers on this topic (for example, the effect of organic matter or green manure application under tilled cropping system). Methods: The experimental design has to match the aims stated in the introduction. For the 1st aim, it is necessary to compare the relationship between plant residue and infiltration rate under different cropping sequences (for example, consecutive corn cropping vs. corn-rose grass-okra cropping is necessary). For the second aim, factorial design of different amounts of root mass, and different amounts of crop residue incorporation is needed. The experimental design described here is not suitable for the aims stated in the introduction. Results, discussion and conclusions: The same comments as the first review. 