Glyphosate is a widespread herbicide since 1994, when transgenic crops were commercially released into the environment. Several cases of glyphosate resistance have been reported, after repeated use of this herbicide, since then. Previous cases have included species of Poaceae or Amaranthaceae. The manuscript by Padmanabhan and colleagues presents an interesting comparison between the transcriptomic profiles of giant ragweed plants collected from populations that are either resistant or sensitive to the use of glyphosate. This paper is relevant, because the authors investigate an agricultural weed that is not a Poaceae or Amaranthaceae. This contribution is useful to addressing if glyphosate resistance follows common metabolic pathways in distantly related plants. Moreover, they do so following an experimental set up, that can potentially be replicated and expanded; this is an additional contribution. We summarize our main concerns on the present status of the work under review, and provide comments or suggestions that may help improve this work. A more comprehensive transcriptomic comparison would greatly contribute to the objetives of the work under review. We recommend: Transcriptomic analyses made between resistant and sensitive ragweed individuals sampled at different time points during the experiment –which the authors summarize in Tables 3 and 4 and compare on table 5- with an explicit discussion of their results in light of the transcriptomic profiles (and highly expressed genes) described for other glyphosate-resistant tweeds, in order to discuss if common metabolic pathways that are not lineage specific, are being selected upon through pervasive use of glyphosate in the corn belt in the USA, or not. The paper would also benefit from a more thorough discussion concerning the type and function of genes that were found to be highly expressed in resistant and/or sensitive giant ragweed biotypes. We recommend using other databases, such as KEGG. It would be particularly important to focus on genes involved in secondary growth, lateral meristem activity, or any aspect related to perennial habit, in contrast to non-perennial habit of close relatives, if there are any. Also, comparison to functional information available in other perennial and non perennial herbs that have evolved resistance, would be very useful. The fact that the genes that are highly expressed in sensitive giant ragweed are those involved with chloroplast function, which is the function that is primarily and directly affected by glyphosate, through the inhibition of aromatic aminoacid synthesis. This is not addressed by the authors aside from Table 4. Such discussion would also improve the significance of the paper. In the last paragraph of the discussion, the authors propose a hypothesis concerning the highly expressed genes in resistant ragweed. The following statement made by the authors is confusing and requires clarification: “This is consistent with the rapid necrosis reaction observed in resistant giant ragweed biotypes used in this study”. Necrosis is a common response to biotic and abiotic stress but this phrase could be further clarified if the authors maybe by explaining to the reader what is the main physiological response to glyphosate observed in resistant biotypes: necrosis of all leaves? Of some? Necrosis and then new leaf generation? Are any of these observed in non resistant biotypes, ever? In the conclusions the authors suggest how a more thorough analysis could be carried on in the future for giant ragweed resistance. This made it clear that some details were missing in the methods section of the present paper: how many plants did they sample (two for each biotype for biological replicates; same individual plant, but two samplings for technical replicates?). These details should be clarified, please. A useful review article that may be cited and help tackle questions pertaining the possible metabolic pathways affected by glyphosate: The Shikimate Pathway and Aromatic Amino Acid Biosynthesis in Plants Annual Review of Plant Biology Vol. 63: 73-105 (Volume publication date June 2012) DOI: 10.1146/annurev-arplant-042811-105439 References 1. Maeda H, Dudareva N: The shikimate pathway and aromatic amino Acid biosynthesis in plants. Annu Rev Plant Biol . 2012; 63 : 73-105 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Alvarez-Buylla E and Piñeyro-Nelson A. Reviewer Report For: Preliminary investigation of glyphosate resistance mechanism in giant ragweed using transcriptome analysis [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1354 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9611.r15735 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1354/v1#referee-response-15735 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Beffa R. Reviewer Report For: Preliminary investigation of glyphosate resistance mechanism in giant ragweed using transcriptome analysis [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1354 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9611.r14937 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1354/v1#referee-response-14937 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 01 Aug 2016 Roland Beffa , Weed Resistance Research Bayer AG, Frankfurt, Germany Not Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9611.r14937 Preliminary investigation of glyphosate resistance in giant ragweed using transcriptome analysis from’ Padmanabhan is a very preliminary work, and the differentially expressed genes found have to be further validated, genetically or/and functionally. No isogenic populations of sensitive and resistant glyphosate ... Continue reading READ ALL 