This is an informative manuscript detailing previously unrecorded maximum water temperatures in which Spiny Dogfish, Squalus acanthias , have been encountered during a standardized survey off the coast of North Carolina. I believe though that the authors need to pare back the content in the methods section to that relevant to the main focus of the paper and not overstate the findings as they relate to habitat use within the estuary in the results and discussion sections. The information obtained in this manuscript has importance in documenting previously unknown temperatures but the authors need to understand that this is the importance and not try to interpret minimal data for habitat use. Abstract Remove sentence beginning with "Stations where dogfish..." as there are not enough samples to make any sort of inference to estuary or habitat use Methods Remove the sentence in the first paragraph beginning with "Sampling locations were chosen..." as this is not relevant to the capture of the Spiny Dogfish. Remove the mention and description of longline gear use in the second paragraph, as the spiny dogfish were all caught using gillnets. While the survey may have utilized both gear types, the Spiny Dogfish focused on in this paper were not caught with longline. Remove all sentences beginning with "Distance from the nearest inlet..." through the remainder of the second paragraph, as this information is not utilized in the analysis. Remove the sentences beginning with "All batoids were identified..." through the end of the paragraph as this is not relevant to the topic of this manuscript. Results Remove all mention of other species captured concurrently with Spiny Dogfish. Remove sentences referring to capture site in relation to inlets and seagrass areas. There is not enough information to do analysis in regards to habitat use. Discussion Remove the sentence in the fourth paragraph beginning with "Spiny dogfish feed primarily on..." as this is way too speculative based on the catch of a few harvest fish in one net that also caught spiny dogfish. Remove the fourth paragraph as there are too few samples collected to make any inferences about habitat use for this manuscript. In general, the manuscript provides useful information in regards to new maximum temperatures recorded for spiny dogfish catch, but I want to emphasize that I would caution the authors from making too many speculative assertions based on limited catch at these temperatures.