In this article the authors present BED, a biological entity database implemented as a Neo4J labelled property graph. In addition, they provide two R-packages (BED neo4J) for the construction and query of such graphs that adhere to their data model. These packages include utility functions to facilitate graph construction from a range of commonly used and publicly available data sources. The software and database are well documented and available through GitHub and Docker (as a Docker image) respectively and proved straight forward to install and run. There are several elements of the current manuscript that warrant commentary: Motivation/Rationale . The authors have correctly identified an important problem with the integration of biological data that has been addressed before, not least by the resources/tools mentioned in the manuscript (Biomart, my gene, g:Profiler amongst others). They have chosen a particularly good approach (labelled property graphs) to build the data architecture to address such a problem and one that has recently been used to great effect by the EMBL-EBI Reactome team to model data related to biological pathways. Currently this manuscript somewhat undersells the potential for the tools that have been developed. Whilst allusion is made at various points to the fact that the software developed could be used by others to develop custom resources very little is presented as to the suitability of their approach for such. The "Abstract" states that existing resources "cannot be customised and optimised for any specific use" which is not correct and should be removed or re-worded to clarify the author's meaning. Whilst the implementation presented here is focussed primarily on gene level mappings it should be made clear throughout the manuscript that the general approach used could be (and indeed has been, see citation) used in other really quite different biological data modelling scenarios. Introduction . The issue of "transitivity" is raised here, this is a complex issue for many biological data types that are far removed from the rigid structures of ontologies that commonly enforce it by definition. The meaning of "transitivity" in the context used here is not clear and warrants further explanation. This is particularly important later in the article where decisions are being made about inferring mappings where they don't exist in the data. Some such inferences are entirely logical (e.g. using HGNC ids two link gene_ids between two resources that don't map directly to each other) but others are far more complex (e.g. mapping between species). The inclusion of deprecated identifiers is excellent and will help to close a notable gap in many existing resources for which mapping older data into more recent datasets can be extremely time consuming and frustrating. The authors comment on "mapping between different scopes" is unclear and should be clarified. Methods . The sections "Feeding the Database" and "Querying the Database" are very brief and would benefit from much more detail about the functionality of the database creation and query system. Whilst these are covered in detail in the various pieces of documentation (including some very nice working examples) there is not enough in the manuscript itself to allow the reader to assess the available functionality. Use Cases . There appears to be a discrepancy in gene counts from the Ensembl examples used in this section; the first example calls human Ensembl genes and returns 59,515 genes the second states the total number of human Ensembl genes to be 68,460. Figure 3. illustrates a relationship graph including deprecated BEIDs. Whilst is_replaced_by is clear, it is not clear (or defined anywhere) what the meaning of is_associated_to is and how that differs from corresponds_to . This should be clarified in the text. The sentence "The function guessIdOrigin ..." appears out of place, unconnected to the surrounding text. The statement "Five identifiers were only..." and the following sentence should be combined and re-worded so that the explanation as to why 5 BEIDs were uniquely found by gProfiler is clearer. No validation or commentary has been presented to test the efficacy of inferences made by the query system. I would like to have seen an attempt made to check the veracity of mappings made in this way especially when the majority (c.80%) of extra Ensmembl-EntrezID mappings recovered via BED were inferred. A "rough approximation" of timings for queries within BED and across other systems is not particularly informative. It would have been straightforward to automate a sampling approach to generate a mean response time (and a variance) to a defined set of query sizes/complexities to give the user a better understanding of how variable these response times are between the systems in practice. In addition, it would have been nice to see some analysis/discussion about the "scalability" of the system as this is likely to be of particular interest to end-users considering a similar modelling approach in other domains. Figure5. The meaning of directionality here is not clear. Whilst I can see the benefit for provenance reasons i.e. a mapping from EntrezGene to RefSeq it's meaning here is somewhat moot. The work presented in this manuscript promises to be very useful for researchers wanting to use LPGs for data integration. The implementation and deployment have been very well executed so that they can be readily adopted and modified by end-users. 