The article makes a reasonable point around the thorny issue of research prioritisation - although I think conflating actual numbers of child HIV infections with children at risk of infection of STH is not an ideal comparison given relative differences in disease burden. Ideally, the bibliographic data would be supplemented with direct insights into how and why research is prioritised (by all parties) in a South African context as the data itself, while initially striking, does not provide any great insight into this. I do not think the publishing results are surprising for many reasons - funding, research interest, building of a critical mass of research in areas of HIV research, need for new HIV tools, MDA relatively effective for STH etc. Given South Africas slow response to its HIV crisis, in particular, it is not surprising so much research is devoted to HIV. I think, that being the case, and the fact that this is an opinion article that the authors might have lengthened their discussion and reflected on the relative evidence/impact of the three diseases (few would argue that HIV or TB is a bigger societal burden, but perhaps the data/analytics we use to assess disease burden is flawed or skewed towards certain measures of burden?) There is a large literature on this and other issues regarding prioritisation (DALYs etc), in relation to NTDs, that ought to be referenced. Furthermore, the interactions between funders, scientists and funding bodies are complex and systemic and it is overly simplistic to lay the onus on the research ecosystem to prioritise other diseases (there are also many reasons for inertia in research re-orientation). One needs to reflect on how to lever and incentivise the system if one wants different priorities supported, and to reflect on the data that unpins that sort of decision making. It would be useful for the authors to elaborate their argument here, which would involve having a deeper sense of the politics and practices of the STH (and broader) research community in South Africa. Finally, while quite clearly not much research is going on with regards to STH in South Africa the authors do not really provide evidence that research should be re-prioritised. MDA coverage - which happens in South Africa - means that the disease burden is relatively low, whereas HIV and TB (to a lesser extent) remain extraordinarily high. Few would argue that research should not be focused on HIV, at issue might be the extent to which it is. It would have strengthened the authors case to have cited policy/opinion from the NRF, Dept of Health etc that indicates that soil-tranmitted helminths are a problem that requires more research activity, and suggests obvious areas where research is lacking. Ultimately the paper raises an interesting point about research and health priorities in a relatively resource constrained context but does not extend far enough beyond that by reflecting on the nature of evidence, exploring why helminth research is not better supported, and reflecting on how actually to lever more research if indeed it is truly necessary. If the authors were to focus on tracing precisely why so little soil-transmitted helminth research goes on (by for example interviewing the small number of people who do work on the diseases as well as key actors like the NRF) there may well be an interesting full length article to be written about science and health policy in South Africa.