The phenomenon presented by Jose Loaiza and collaborators is astonishing by several criterions and thus should be carefully evaluated to dispel any doubt. The mobility described for Amblyomma tapirellum is atypical and the explanations rather speculative (which is acceptable considering the absolute lack of knowledge on the matter, as clearly stated by authors). At the same time, finding 48 adult ticks (I will focus on the stage found in the highest numbers) on different occasions in different light traps suspended 20m above the ground indicates a standard. One has to consider that for regular access to traps, adult ticks either climbed trees by themselves, fed on an arboreal host and moulted to adults on trees, were taken to the trees as adults by hosts (monkeys) and detached from them or had access to the traps during handling. Apart from the last possibility all others are worthwhile considering and deserve further research. In fact, movement from tree to suspended mosquito trap is, by itself, a challenge for ticks. I am not acquainted with such traps but it seems from the picture that it is held by a string or something similar and thus ticks would have to crawl on a variable length of string to reach the trap. Regardless, before further speculation, it is essential to dismiss trap infestation during handling through review, and careful description of field procedures. Considering the uncommon finding and its ecological importance such information is of paramount importance for the article. According to the authors, this tick species is quite prevalent on the ground or on ground vegetation. For this reason, I strongly recommend describing the handling of traps in detail. Were they mounted /examined/maintained on the ground at any moment? By personal experience, it is common to find ticks crawling on boxes used to carry dry ice (CO 2 ) for tick traps. After finding the first specimens in the traps was any specific care taken to avoid accidental access of ticks to the traps? Were there any differences in the handling of traps in the canopy in comparison to those closer to the ground? Should these doubts be eliminated in the text, the manuscript will be acceptable for further discussion and publication.