The authors describe the results from a prospective observational study of children attending a single hospital in Bangladesh using WHO diagnostic criteria. If this is the first time HFMD has been described from Bangladesh, this is of major relevance locally and regionally. I recommend the authors to use the STROBE guidelines/checkbox to verify whether all required data are included. The main findings are that a number of cases of HFMD among young children was described from one hospital in Bangladesh, the symptom and age distribution are relatively similar to what is known from the region. Healthcare workers should be aware of this illness, its prevention and treatment and warning signs of severe illness. I have made some comments and suggestions below, the most important being to shorten and bring more focus on the current data in the discussion. Specific comments: Add this sentence on the aetiology, to replace the sentence in the second paragraph of the introduction: "HFMD is caused by several serotypes of Enterovirus A, the most common being Enterovirus A71 (EV-A71) and Coxsackievirus A16 (CV-A16) and more recently also CV-A6 and CV-A10. EV-A71 is associated with a higher proportion of severe illness." Please add the exact case definition that was used to enrol children. 143 children were included, how many children were eligible during the period of enrolment? How many were not enrolled because of exclusion criteria or otherwise, how many didn't consent? Can an epidemiological curve be added? Any further information on cases in the region, nearby hospitals? Were any warning signs detected during the study? Because of the epidemiology of HFMD, the preferred age stratification would be 0-6, 6-12, 12-24, 24-60 and 60 months or similar (e.g. Xing et al 1 ) It is common to study the effects of precipitation allowing for a lag period of few days (incubation period) Reviews on the epidemiology, mortality and long-term outcome of HFMD have been published recently. These can be referenced in the discussion for clarity. The discussion deals with a broad spectrum of general topics. This is appropriate for a report to be circulated among local healthcare workers, but not for the current scientific publication. I would suggest to focus on the data from the current study for the discussion here, to broadly describe the findings and if there were any striking differences with what has been described from the region. The authors should not overinterpret the data from this relatively small sample size to look for potential associations. In the third paragraph of the discussion the authors state that outbreaks occurred in 1997 and 1998, despite forecasts. The referenced forecasts were derived from timeseries from Malaysia from 1998-2006 and could not have predicted the 1997-8 outbreaks. There are syndromic and serotype specific timeseries from Japan dating back to the 1980s that may have forecasted these, but to my knowledge no major HFMD outbreaks had occurred in Malaysia and Taiwan prior to these. In the laboratory diagnosis section, it is important to realise that diagnosis of EV-A71 as the main pathogen is important as it is associated with a higher proportion of severe illness. 