This manuscript addresses important questions on potential non-antibiotic drivers of antimicrobial resistance evolution. Jun et al test the co-selective abilities of widely used pesticides and provide data suggesting that in particular copper ammonium acetate may co-select for pre-existing tetracycline resistance in E. coli . Major points: 1. Relevance: The manuscript would benefit from a stronger contextualisation with respect to how relevant the co-selective effects reported are. The minimum copper biocide concentration causing a change in tetracycline response is reported to be 120microgramml- this is according to published data referred to in the Discussion in the upper range of what is measured in piglets- questioning the relevance of the findings. There is a huge literature on these issues - for example a study from Europe suggest that copper concentrations can be relatively high in soils, see for example (Heijerick DG1, Van Sprang PA, Van Hyfte AD.,2006 1 ). To this end, the experiments on both the effects on acrAB-TolC knock-outs and mScarlet tolC promoter- fusions are performed at a much higher concentration (450microgramml) - this needs justification beyond the stated NOEL. The dose response data presented in Figs 1 and 2 for the Copper/tetracycline combinations strongly suggest that there are selective effects at much lower concentrations than the authors conservatively report. I fully support this approach considering the chosen methodology. However, I suspect that clear fitness effects may be seen at much lower doses of copper ammonium acetate. This could be shown by mixed competitions between WT and tolC knock-out mutants over a range of copper concentrations, similar to what was shown for sub-MIC selection of antibiotic resistance (Gullberg et al 2011 2 ). I do however suspect that a simpler assay using relative growth rates as a proxy for relative fitness at lower concentrations than 120microgramml copper ammonium acetate would increase the sensitivity of identifying a “minimum co-selective” coper concentration. 2. Non- inheritable resistance/tolerance as underlying mechanism for reduced tetracycline susceptibility: The reported patching experiments where it demonstrated that E. coli survival rely on simultaneous presence of copper were done at 35microgramml tetracycline. In the dose responses presented in Fig. 2 10microgramml is used. Given the large mutational target for efflux alteration- how can you so categorically rule out existing mutations with MICs lower than 35microgramml without presenting sequence data and or doing proper MIC assays of several colonies recovered on LB plates? Other points: Table 3: the fold - change description does separate synergy/antagonism- the strep/copper combination is reported as 5 fold shift- but it has an opposite sign as compared to the 40 fold difference reported for copper/tet- this is a little confusing. Fig. 2: Why are the biocide concentrations here reported in ppm?- microgramml is used throughout the manuscript. Tetracycline MICs for acrAB-tolC mutants are not presented- this should be included. Figure 4: a less than 2- fold increase in expression is reported as significant. The use of single cells here takes stochastic variation in fluorescence into account and I do find the data solid but it would be good if more experimental details were provided. How many individual cells were measured, number of biological replicates ect- it is hard to extract from the deposited data (at least for this reviewer). 