This article describes a suite of services that bring the previously existing concept profile analysis tool "Anni" to the web. These web services enable a range of bioinformatics analysis tasks, and can be embedded in other workflows. The authors provide examples of implementing workflows within the Taverna workbench which nicely illustrate the applicability of the services. The authors provide links to both the software and the Taverna workflows used as examples, which is very good. The article could be improved by providing a more clear distinction between what can be achieved with the web services, and how the operations are implemented. The very first paragraph of the article, for instance, provides a strongly methodological description of the tool (introducing the vector space model, and the notion of comparing vectors). A more application-oriented oriented motivation for the tool would be preferable right at the beginning; the details of e.g. how " pathway analysis " is supported (via the concept profiles) can be provided after the general rationale for the tool. Note that the authors also mention a use case for "linking data sets" but do not appear to provide a concrete example of where this might be relevant. Similarly, the technical specifications mix somewhat user and developer functionality; some reorganisation could improve the manuscript. Where they mention "the user" , is this a user (i.e. someone interested in bioinformatics analysis), or a computational user/developer? Where the authors state, "The concept profile matching scores between the two concept sets" , does this refer to a pairwise comparison between the elements of the two sets, or a more holistic/aggregated comparison across the complete sets? Please clarify. Figure 2 might be more interesting if it showed an example of a "Match concept set" rather than the " Cutoff " value. How are such concept sets defined? On the other hand, parameters such as " cutoff " should be explained, at least in the figure caption, for completeness. There are several details provided that are not fully explained. Specifically, there is a mention of "t he XML splitter function in Taverna " for input parameters. Again, please consider whether this is important for a user to understand, or rather for a developer to understand the code. Also, what are " WS functional annotations "? (cf. also the reuse of the term " annotation " with possibly a different sense in " Single Nucleotide Polymorphism annotation " and " gene annotation "). What do you refer to with " the data underlying the Anni WS "? The conclusions are justified, if a bit unspecific. A more targeted summary of the functionality would be preferable, rather than " we made available the CPA technology ". Note a few small English usage issues. (1) " considering to implement " should be "considering implementing" (2) " users can easier integrate " should be "users can more easily integrate".