This work uses a hybrid approach network modelling approach to incorporate predictive methodology with empirical knowledge and crowd sourcing for models of COPD pathogenesis. It is a good idea, thoroughly implemented and has produced a potentially useful set of pathways. The value of the resulting pathways is not clear as they do not have community validation, only community design. The manuscript is exhaustive in its descriptions and the process of developing the models is clear. The work represents the first phase of understanding for knowledge driven development of network models of COPD - the process of building the models is well described and the actual outcomes of the interactions with community are informative. The question of the actual true value of the models in terms of their accuracy, adoption and accessibility is not yet convincingly addressed. That may be expected as the purpose of this work appears to be a description of the first part of the process of developing knowledge based models for a disease. The models as presented appear unvalidated and without a description of the framework for assessing the value and actioning of the networks, it is not clear how their uptake by the community will be assured. This is a unique effort but the manuscript should make more reference to existing pathway based community annotation efforts e.g.: wikipathways and/or open science initiatives such as those promoted by community interaction leaders such as Andrew Su. It should show how the value of this approach differs to existing efforts. In terms of access to expertise, it is not clear how an uninvited scientist would contribute to an existing pathway model - except through the open but time-limited crowdsourcing venue. Straightforward validation of the models network is not tested in terms of their consistency or cross-valdiation within COPD high dimensional assays - where it should be possible to see evidence of enrichment for co-expression etc. Contextual nature of networks is mentioned and attempts are made to address contextual pathway structures, but the context is not tested. As a suggestion the authors should consider community validation Pathway accessibility and distribution is described but it is not clear as to how these models are available in any format except web browsing. For the models to be tested by the community, value would come from making them openly available as downloadable instances in several of the most popular formats. Feedback on their accuracy could then be encouraged.