I think this paper has merit as a scientific publication, in that it adds to the body of research about RDS by its application to a "hidden" population, that by all accounts should be reasonable, but turned out to be not effective. The abstract begins with a sentence that ends with a repeated point "rapid increasing life-span" and "accelerated general population ageing". One of those statements is redundant. Paragraph 2 of the introduction starts with international findings but does the second sentence beginning with "Despite this . . " refer to the NZ experience, or outside of the US and UK? I feel that some points could be expanded upon: The authors could expand, in the introduction, how the method improves the validity of, and reduces biases in, population-based estimates over other methods. Examples of typical target populations for this method that are introduced in the discussion should move to the introduction, as it supports the novelty of this application. I feel the results are two-fold. Firstly, the sample as described. I know its a moot point but I would be interested to know how big a sample is required to reach equilibrium. Secondly, since this is a paper on the RDS, I would have liked to see a description of the total numbers of people approached in each wave, with eligible and ineligible participants. Thus reporting if the failure was a result of response, eligibility, or simply a lack of invitation to participate in subsequent waves. This is an interesting application of a novel method of sampling from a group of people made hard-to-reach, it seems, as a result of their successful integration into contemporary New Zealand society. One characteristic of strongly stigmatised groups in New Zealand, such as those identified in the paper, are their tendency to establish strong internal networks, both informal and formal, that I feel would be useful to this type of methodology. It would be difficult for individuals with small networks to fulfill the random selection criteria for RDS. I take it that this may have influenced the less stigmatised wheelchair user population but it wasn't clearly stated if this was the case. The paper reports a good example of where a useful method may not apply, in its initial format, to a particular interest group.However, it wasn't totally discounted as a potential approach but the reader is left without any suggestion as to how it might be modified to improve its take up, except for the suggestion of formative research, while fulfilling the assumptions required for RDS to provide unbiased population-wide estimates.