The paper by McCoy at al. entitled Deletion of ENTPD3 does not impair nucleotide hydrolysis in primary somatosensory neurons or spinal cord is a detailed and technically sound study. This paper focuses on possible roles for ENTPD3/NTPDase3 in pain perception and neural transmission in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord. In addition, other proteins of interest that are related and known to be involved in the DRG, including prosthetic acid phosphatase (PAP), 5-nucleotidase (NT5E) and tissue nonspecific acid phosphatase (TNAP) were examined. Many behavioral and pain assays were performed. These include tail immersion assays, a hot plate test, tail clip assay, cotton swab assay, acetone test, cold plantar assay, and 2-temperature discrimination assays. In addition, several assays for itch were performed, including histamine, chloroquine, and beta-alanine induced itch. Also, several other behavioral assays, including the water repulsion assay, the Complete Freunds Adjuvant (CFA) inflammation pain assay and the LysoPhosphatidic Acid (LPA) neuropathic pain assays were performed. In general, the work is well done and detailed, and includes the appropriate controls. However, the main problem with this work is that there is no indication of the physiological function of NTPDase3/ENTPD3 revealed by any of the experimental results. Of course, negative data is sometimes important, and this is so in this case. However, what is really missing from this work is analysis for other nucleotidases that are likely to compensate for the loss of NTPDase3 in these mice. These include the nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase enzymes (NPPs), and more importantly, the other members of the cell-surface NTPDase class of nucleotidases, especially NTPDase1/ENTPD1, and NTPDase2/ENTPD2. Since the authors claim in their abstract that there could be multiple ectonucleotidases that act redundantly to hydrolyze nucleotides in these regions of the nervous system (which seems logical and likely), it is somewhat curious that no analyses for these other nucleotidases were performed. If such experiments were done, and if up-regulation of one or more of these enzymes was observed, this study would be more interesting, and the paper more important, since this might suggest putative physiological role(s) for NTPDase3/ENTPD1. There are a couple of interesting and possibly problematic experimental details reported in the paper. First, why was 20 mM magnesium chloride used in the enzyme histochemistry experiments? This seems to be an unreasonably high, non-physiologic, concentration of magnesium. In addition, many of these nucleotidases, including NTPDase3 and other NTPDases, are, in fact, more active using calcium as a divalent cation as opposed to magnesium. So the choice of 20 mM magnesium chloride seems odd. Also, one change in these knockout mice that is noted in terms of possible effects on nucleotide hydrolysis is the decrease in 5-nucleotidase protein seen in the DRG neurons of the knockout mouse, which is reported in Table 2. However, as reported in Figure 7, there is no apparent decrease in hydrolysis of AMP in the same dorsal root ganglia, which is apparently not consistent with Table 2, although other enzymes could come into play (but dont seem to change in the KO). However, enzyme histochemistry is difficult to accurately quantitate and is usually regarded as a semi-quantitative technique. Thus, a relatively small change in hydrolysis rates may not be evident from enzyme histochemical data. This is a potential problem with Figure 7, and begs the question as to why tissue homogenates were not evaluated by solution-based, quantitative nucleotidase enzyme assays. The same limitations are applicable to the data reported in Figure 8 on spinal cord sections from wild type and knockout mice. As reported in Table 3, the authors did find a significant difference in itch response to beta-alanine in the KO mice. However, again, the other itch data, and the rest of the data in Table 3, show no difference between wt and KO mice for responses to itch, heat, or cold behavioral stimuli. In their conclusion section, the authors do mention other roles that have been suggested for NTPDase3/ENTPD3, including possible roles in the hypothalamus for controlling wakefulness and feeding behavior, for hearing in the cochlea, in the beta cells of the pancreas for regulation of ATP-controlled insulin secretion, and in the G.I. tract. It would be interesting to report any experiments designed to monitor for changes in any of these putative physiological functions of NTPDase3. These could include measurements designed to detect abnormal sleep times or cycles, abnormal eating habits, and abnormal plasma glucose and insulin levels and/or abnormal responses to glucose tolerance tests. In conclusion, this study is well done and thorough with respect to the attributes that were evaluated in the DRG and spinal cord. Unfortunately, the results do not suggest likely physiological function(s) for NTPDase3/ENTPD3. Also, there is no data reported for other related cell-surface nucleotidases, such as NTPDases 1 and 2, which may be up-regulated in a compensatory response to the knockout of NTPDase3. In addition, there is no mention of experiments designed to address other putative physiological functions of NTPDase3, which are not related to the DRG or spinal cord. Hopefully, these points will be addressed in future work on these knockout animals.