The authors present a novel method for finding groups of genes that concomitantly change their expression profile upon signals and conditional changes. As opposed to standing tools in the field that rely on predefined functional classification, this approach is based on topology of the global interaction network and enables an unbiased identification of larger functional blocks highlighting pathway cross-talk. It furthermore includes a topological method for identifying source and sink pathways that provides a prediction of process causality. The latter is particularly useful for hypothesis generation and add-on experimental validation far beyond the field of biomedicine. The paper is structured into the presentation of the algorithm, a biomedical use-case with validating background information and a slim benchmarking against differential expression analysis with different cut-offs. While the method clearly fills an existing gap in high-throughput gene expression analysis and is very elegantly reasoned, I would like to raise a number of comments with regards to writing and benchmarking. Introduction: The main line of argumentation gets lost sometimes, in particular in paragraph 1. The narrative would furthermore benefit from actual examples instead of repeating a general statement of ‘changed conditions’. Sometimes, the same argument is repeated in differently phrased sentences. Paragraph 2: Suppress ‘be subjective to some degree’. Paragraph 4: Better highlight and delimit the novelty of the presented approach. Overall, shorter sentences benefit the reader. Methods: The context of Hartung’s method is described nicely, yet the actual way how the individual p-values are combined to result in a single measure is omitted. Please include as this information provides instructive benefit to the reader. Results: Case Study: Paragraph 1: Readability would profit from focusing the background information, e.g. 'Ebola infection data was (-were) selected (...)' - rephrase into a half-sentence. Wording: Until now-currently. Robustness: The recall-comparison (MSF to differential expression analysis) is weakening the proposed method, because no increase in recall for MSF can be achieved. It would be informative to see also precision stats in comparison. Generally, one would expect more robust statistics on larger subgraphs (MSF vs. DEG groups). Also, I am not entirely convinced by adding noise to real and thus – already - noisy data. A small, artificial mock example with detailed known outcome (+/- noise) might be more suitable and supportive. Figure 4: This figure is very difficult to follow. I suggest to i) enhance the label sizes and texts, with particular emphasis on delimiting MSF and DEG, ii) improve the figure caption text including fundamental information of what is shown. Github material: Importantly - provide an example directory that contains complete examples cases (+*all* files) including the presented Ebola case + options and outcome to enable a swift recapitulation of the tool for the new user. 