The study presented in this paper is challenging and can be fascinating; it aims to verify whether or not two participants are only connected mentally without using sensory organs. To check this connection, the authors decided to use a machine learning approach. They used a linear classifier and framed the problem as a classification task. The methodology was validated on two public datasets that both used EEG signals as a measure for brain activity. The methodology is simple to grasp and understand. The main steps of the methodology can be reproduced. However, it seems the authors get lost in the results section. The study design can be improved to verify mental telecommunication (whether or not two brains are connected). Figures 1 and 2 show the stimulated and non-stimulated brains of the participants. One good comparison, was showing the differences between the brains at rest. If the goal is to verify if two brains are connected, one observation that is missing is the brain at rest vs. brain at stimulus for both groups. For example, if the two brains (two groups) are connected, then the classification between both should be random. The results shown in table 1 and 2 sound obvious. Table 1 shows the accuracy of the stimulated and non-stimulated brain (stimulated participants group), the classes show different patterns of activity, as measured by the high classification accuracy compared to the data of table 2. However, the comparison that is missing is between the data of the stimulated and non-stimulated subjects during the stimulation period. So, if the classification accuracy is at random, it suggests a brain connection. Mental telecommunication is the primary goal of this paper after all. The same principle of analysis was done for dataset 2 (Results section: Second dataset). It is not possible to conclude mental telecommunication from this analysis, as shown in table 4. So, one interesting experiment that could be done to verify mental telecommunication would be to analyze the non-stimulated group data before and during the stimulation, to see if the mental states are separable as in the stimulated group. If this analysis is in the paper, it is not clear. In the second paragraph of the discussion section, the authors argue that a modest classification accuracy of 50.74% allowed to distinguish it from the non-stimulation condition. From a machine learning point of view, this is considered a random classification. Moreover, this study (as it is in the moment) did not show evidence (machine learning results) for mental telecommunication — the same for the third paragraph (second dataset). 