The concept of the TicTrainer is highly valuable. Unfortunately I was unable to review the current version of the TicTrainer website directly due to issues with registration (it won’t accept ID – if crucial for this peer review, please provide some guidance in a Supplementary file or in the reply). In general, the authors should comment whether there is a plan in place to overcome the inability of Microsoft browsers to support the program, as this may be a major limitation for diffusion. Like the other reviewer, I also think that the Introduction is too simplistic in comparing efficacy between ERP and CBIT, whereas in fact the quality of the evidence supporting these two behavioral treatments is different, and has been systematically reviewed and even meta-analysed. A short paragraph summarizing the evidence supporting the efficacy of ERP, also with respect to CBIT, would be useful. Moreover, the Introduction should help a reader who is not fully acquainted with ERP understanding the technique of this behavioral approach, particularly the way in which trainer and patient interact during treatment sessions, and how this type of interaction is suitable to be operationalized using a software tool. All this is a bit given for well established in the paper, whereas in fact the literature on alternative modes of administering ERP is scant. Perhaps I am missing some basic characteristic of the TicTrainer software, but from this manuscript it is not clear whether the “user” window and the “trainer” must appear on separate devices, or whether they could be opened on the same computer simultaneously. Can the authors comment on whether this is a specific choice of the authors of the software (and why), or a technical limitation that aims to be overcome in software upgrades? Finally, I think that the lack of premonitory urge measures is an important limitation. On an individual patient basis, the lack of efficacy of contingent reward application to ERP might depend on the intensity of the premonitory urges and by an insufficient habituation to the urge. If the urges are not measured somehow, it would be difficult to monitor treatment response. A recent paper by Brandt et al., Cortex 2006 proposes a real time, computer-based urge monitoring technique; it would be interesting to integrate/implement something similar in this software. 