This is a short paper on the influence of priming on the Drosophila immune response.The results are worthy enough to be published but require major improvements. 1) The paper, especially the introduction, is poorly written. I just mention few problems *All the parts on the vertebrate adaptive immune should be double checked by an immunologist. Many sentences make no sense. Ex .: 'Cooperation between lymphocytes and antigen presenting cells is the main mechanism of action, according to which naive B lymphocytes expressing a membrane-bound antibody molecule are activated when they bind to their specific antigen and divide quickly into memory B cells and effector B cells that induce humoral immunity' This is a short cut. B cells are activated upon direct recognition of antigen and a signal coming from T cell that has been previously activated by a DC This is not a mechanism of action... • Intro part on Drosophila - (ref 11) is a paper unrelated to what it is linked ('homeostatic factors'). - Can melanization be considered as a part of the humoral response? - What does 'captivation' mean? - The role of dScam in phagocytosis is poorly established compared to NimC1. I am not aware that Eater has been shown to 'locate' bacteria. - 'also exhibit local immunity': 'Also' seems weird when the part above discusses systemic immunity. • Intro part on specificity - Specificity has been shown. Flies activate adapted immune response to aggressors (ex. Toll/Imd, encapsulation only against parasites). This is not new. What is possibly new is the high degree of specificity. - What is the meaning of 'selected specificity' and 'selective adaptability'? - 'They also found similar adaptation': the term adaptation is unclear. • Boman, in his famous 1972 Nature paper, has already shown that priming with E. clocae could protect fly from an infection by P. aeruginosa . This could be mentioned.Figure 4: Eater is not a cellular deficient mutant but a phagocytic mutant. Idem for 'humoral response mutant' in figure 6. This is not precise enough. 2) All the experiments in figures 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 should be repeated at least a second time in a way to have an independent repeat and a higher number of flies. 3) The observed effect is not striking: improvement of only 2h. From my point of view, this actually suggests that priming is not very efficient and could be simply explained by the long-lasting effect of AMPs or other immune factors. This hypothesis should be discussed first before evoking dScam, other complex mechanisms or the concept of memory. The memory hypothesis of dSCAM is clearly not needed to explain the observed results. 4) Mutation should be better described and written in italic. Is there an eater mutant or are the authors using a set of deficiencies to generate a mutant? 5) Figure 3: this author has already reported that Toll pathway contributes to host defense against P. aeruginosa . In this case, can they explain why dif mutant survives better than the the wild-type?