Summary of work: The overall problem COPO seeks to address are challenges in ensuring that publishing of digital life science research products (data) comply with FAIR data principles. To address this need, COPO enables researchers to more easily describe their digital products using metadata templates that have been developed and approved by various research communities. COPO uses semantic terms to add meaning and relationships to these metadata, allowing researchers and automated systems to discover and use these data products. Comments: Good: Great reference to “Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs”. Great general overview of the problem space (excellent for those who don’t understand the need for metadata ontologies). Very well written. COPO public website works as advertised Excellent choice of technologies and deployment architecture Suggestions: Not sure why it isn’t made clear at the end of the introduction that COPO is focused on plant metadata (at least, that is what the website for COPO implies). No documentation for an API (searched on project’s ReadTheDocs site). Manuscript does state “We are working on supporting a larger set of data repositories as COPO matures and as submission routes to these repositories implement documented APIs”, but it is clear from the manuscripts introduction that such APIs are essential for automation of data publication and discovery. Documentation: Developer Guide has not been written. Pre-population of data in COPO. It would be great if the authors populate COPO with as much publicly available data as possible. E.g., NCBI’s SRA. While I’m sure not all entries have enough metadata to make this possible, even a significant number of SRA entries available for search and discovery for COPO would be immensely helpful for the research community (as well as be a test for how well COPO works on the discoverability side of FAIR.) However, I could not find any search function in COPO for published datasets. COPO has been in production for several years. Please provide some statistics on usage and adoption of COPO. Mandatory changes: It needs to be made very clear that COPO is helping only with data submission by giving researchers appropriate tools for metadata population and curation. As such, one could argue that COPO does not directly make data FAIR. 