The article by Salvatierra Florez describes development of software tool and web interface for analyzing sequences of microorganisms. Essentially, the software is currently configured for analyzing only chikungunya sequences. The reviewer has a number of comments/ clarifications to make: Introduction: There are no confirmed evidence that the virus can persist in humans for years, as claimed by the authors "CHIKV has a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA genome of 12 kb, which can persist for years in humans". It might be possible that the reviewer has missed such reports in the literature; so a reference citation is required to support this point. Reviewer feels that since the reference data included in the software is only suitable for Chikungunya virus, the authors should refrain from making a broad claim in the title of the manuscript that it can be used for other microorganisms The reviewer tried to use the software to analyze two input sequences of differing length. The user interface simply prompts ‘incorrect sequence length’, without giving any clue that the input sequence should be of equal length (which I ‘guessed’ from the test data set). There are no readily accessible user guidelines (help) or link given in the web interface so that the user can do trouble shooting easily. What happens for the mutation analysis if a user gives out of frame sequences? Will it again simply prompt that ‘incorrect sequence length’? The manuscript does not describe the requirements for the input sequence- minimum length, maximum length, reading frame etc. except that it should be in FASTA format. What is the exact algorithm used in the phylogenetic tree. Does it use Neighbor joining method or Maximum Likelihood analysis, or any other methods? What are the default settings of the’ some instructions’ of the algorithms and nucleotide substitution model to compare the iterated sequences? Is there any provision to do on screen editing of the sequence (I think, no) or is it that each time one need to input an edited sequence file? It provides on screen outputs.Is there any way to save these outputs, and in which format? The reviewer feels that the software does not give added advantage over many of the stand alone, free programs such as BioEdit or MEGA, unless it has more user friendly features. It provides a ready reference for a small set of known CHIKV Genotypes which would be useful for a newcomer in the field to identify the genotypes. But even for a little more advanced user, the interface has no features for a customizable analysis. 