A very stimulating paper, looking at the vigilance conflict in a different, original way. The idea that taking on a social task (such as guarding the group) that inflicts an obvious burden on the performer, is not necessarily an altruistic act, has already been presented by Zahavi and their associates. Their assertion is that although such a behavior looks altruistic, indeed it is not by accepting the burden, the performer reliably indicates its high quality, thus gaining a prestige which increases its reproductive success. The contribution of the present paper is in providing real data, which unequivocally confirm their handicap assertion. However, I have some concern with the statistical analysis of the data. The units of sampling are, obviously, the various groups. Thus, the observations on the alpha males, on the beta males and on the females do not represent independent samples, but constitute paired observations. The correct statistical tool should be a paired-observation comparison, such as a paired t -test. Moreover, Bonferroni-type adjustments for multiple comparisons are needed in some places. I took the liberty of performing paired t -tests on the source data (Dataset 1), and to my satisfaction, although the p -values have changed, the conclusions remain valid. And a small comment: In the Introduction, the authors claim that "However, that guarding helps the group does not explain why a particular individual may forego foraging or any other occupation, in order to guard." There are several works that demonstrate how guarding can be evolutionarily stable in certain situations (see below some examples). The novelty in the present paper is that it can explain the competition over performing the act of guarding. Pulliam, H. R., Pyke, G. H. Caraco, T. (1982). The scanning behaviour of juncos : a game-theoretical approach . Journal of Theoretical Biology 95: 89-103. Parker, G. A. Hammerstein, P. (1985). Game theory and animal behaviour. In: Evolution: Essays in Honour of John Maynard Smith. (Greenwood, P. J., Harvey, P. Slatkin, M., eds.) pp. 73-94. New York: Cambridge University Press. Motro, U. Cohen, D. (1989). A note on vigilance behavior and stability against recognizable social parasites . Journal of Theoretical Biology 136:21-25.