NAADP mediated two-phase Ca 2+ release responses were observed in smooth muscle cells, including pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Lysosomes and sarcoplasmic reticulum (L-SR) junctions had been proposed as the structural bases in facilitating local lysosomal Ca 2+ bursts (first phase) followed by whole cell Ca 2+ release responses from SR (second phase) through a calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) mechanism. In their studies reported here, Nicola Fameli et al. attempted to define the L-SR junctions in PASMCs with a nano-level resolution using electron microscopy (EM), and proceeded to build a quantitative L-SR junctional model. Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little to our further understanding of these L-SR junctional structures, if not at all, due to the lack of solid experimental EM results in reconstructing L-SR junctions, some dogmatic presumptions in L-SR model build up, the inadequacy of validation of the model and a failure to include information on the current disputes over the identity of NAADP-associated Ca 2+ release channels in lysosomes. Some major concerns are as follows: Data are not convincing and lack quality. In defining L-SR junctions, the assurance of lysosome and SR identities is fundamental. Immune-gold staining has been widely applied in EM studies to ascertain different cell organelles as well as to conduct 3D reconstruction of cell structure 1 2 . However, such a standard practice was excluded in this study as a to prevent compromising lysosome membrane definition. In line with applying empirical judgments for identifying organelles to the EM data analysis, the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR, and deemed them to be worth studying (Figure 2). In addition, the authors stated that there were few lysosomes found in the subplasmalemmal region, which implied that L-SR junctions were profoundly located around the nucleus. However, the fura-2 fluorescence images in Figure 1 as well as in the two citations used as basis of this study (10,11) 3 4 exclusively demonstrated that the first phase lysosomal Ca 2+ release initiated from a region around the cell membrane, suggesting that L-SR junctions should have cytoplasmic locations near the plasma membrane. It is clear that more reliable methods such as immune-gold staining are needed to resolve the contradictions over their own results. The modeling is based on many assumed parameters and lacks reliable validation. To establish the L-SR nanojunctional model, the present study has introduced many assumptions to some critical parameters such as the distance between the lysosome and SR, the size of lysosome, and total number of lysosomes; many of which lack proper judgments. In the abstract section, the authors rationalized the application of EM in investigating L-SR junctions by stating L -SR junction membrane separation has been estimated to be 400 nm and thus beyond the resolution of light microscopy . In defining the L-SR nanojunctions, they declared that lysosomes and SR must be separated by a distance of approximately 20 nm and be of the order of a few hundred nm in lateral dimensions by citing PM-SR junctions studies (10, 11) 3 4 . However, these two citations originated from the light microscope-based studies of L-SR junctions by the same group. Given the resolution limitation, these light microscopy results have no way to give an estimation as accurate as 20 nm. It is therefore confusing to find that these references fail to back up such claims, in my opinion. In reference 39 5 , it has been proposed that the extracellular Ca 2+ entered the cell through Na+/ Ca 2+ exchanges, traversed PM-SR junctions to refill SR via Ca 2+ -ATPase and sustained cell Ca 2+ oscillations. For the current L-SR model, this PM-SR modeling may be used as a comparison or reference system leading to the conclusion that L-SR had a similar 20 nm gap measured as that in PM-SR junctions . Given that there are no similarities of PM-SR to L-SR junctions, in terms of potency of Ca 2+ movement due to Ca 2+ gradient across PM and lysosomal membrane, biophysical property of Na + / Ca 2+ exchangers and TPC2 channels, and the actions of Ca 2+ -ATPase and RyR3 Ca 2+ receptors, such a conclusion is not reliable from the modeling. In addition, a major concern is that this model is too simplistic as it excludes many other Ca 2+ regulatory mechanisms in both lysosomes and SR, which may influence the accuracy of junction width or prediction in modeling. Some assumptions contradict well-established concepts due to a lack of consideration of lysosome biology. In explaining the shoulder Ca 2+ signal (Figure 1), the authors introduced up to four assumptions and calculated that ~60-100 lysosomes were needed to generate this shoulder peak. They verified these lysosome numbers with their TEM images that can expect a total of about 110 lysosomes/cell . Considering these two calculations however, it is obviously problematic because almost all lysosomes (100 out of 110 each cell) will need to functionally contribute to the L-SR junctional structure formation. In addition, TEM measurements showed the lysosome dimensions (Table 1) to be major axis of 398 91 nm and minor axis of 325 65 nm. Given the L-SR junction model features junctional membrane separation and extension are about 15 nm and 300 nm , it could be postulated that all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension. Therefore, this L-SR model actually describes a scenario whereby in PASMCs the majority of lysosomes act as the components of L-SR junctions and uniformly have impeccable arrangements to oppose the SR at 20 nm apart. However, this idealistic model largely contradicts the well-established concepts that lysosomes are active organelles that dynamically exert their different functions by their movements and other activities. TPCs as lysosomal Ca 2+ release channels are questionable. In quantifying the L-SR model, the authors arbitrarily assumed TPC2 as the only lysosomal NADDP-activated Ca 2+ channel by totally disregarding recent findings that TPC2 is not a lysosomal NAADP-associated Ca 2+ channel, but a Na + channel 6 , 7 . They also ignored the contribution of other lysosomal channels or transporters that may contribute to such L-SR junction activity. This prejudice in channel selection inevitably invites doubts on the reliability of this proposed L-SR model. In addition, the authors collectively adopted electrophysiological data from other research groups without taking into consideration any incompatibilities with the model. For example, in obtaining the total number of TPC2 channels on a lysosome, the authors dividing the macroscopic whole lysosome conductance, calculated from the current values reported in a recent study on TPC2-mediated Ca 2+ current in isolated lysosomes (48) 8 , by the single channel conductances(45) 9 , thus estimating that a typical lysosomal membrane may contain ~20 TPC2 . Unfortunately, the lysosomes used in the whole lysosome conductance recording were not normal lysosomes, but lysosomes manipulated by overexpression of TPC2 and were undergoing size enlargement. With these changes, the modified lysosomes would have a much higher TPC2 conductance compared with normal lysosomes with a natural biogenesis. It is important to use a TPC2 conductance and other parameters of channels from lysosomes of normal cells without an artificial transgene for such modeling. Otherwise, the modeling prediction will be inaccurate and the relevance of such a model will be vague. In conclusion; aside from the issue that the current L-SR nanojunction model fails to contribute any new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture, my concerns over the reliability of data and modelling parameters are rather serious this work is therefore Not Approved in its current version. References 1. Goldberg MW, Fiserova J: Immunogold labelling for scanning electron microscopy. Methods Mol Biol . 2010; 657 : 297-313 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Morone N, Fujiwara T, Murase K, Kasai RS, et al.: Three-dimensional reconstruction of the membrane skeleton at the plasma membrane interface by electron tomography. J Cell Biol . 2006; 174 (6): 851-862 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Kinnear NP, Boittin FX, Thomas JM, Galione A, et al.: Lysosome-sarcoplasmic reticulum junctions. A trigger zone for calcium signalling by nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate and endothelin-1. J Biol Chem . 2004; 279 (52): 54319-54326 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Kinnear NP, Wyatt CN, Clark JH, Calcraft PJ, et al.: Lysosomes co-localize with ryanodine receptor subtype 3 to form a trigger zone for calcium signalling by NAADP in rat pulmonary arterial smooth muscle. Cell Calcium . 2008; 44 (2): 190-201 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Fameli N, van Breemen C, Kuo KH: A quantitative model for linking Na+/Ca2+ exchanger to SERCA during refilling of the sarcoplasmic reticulum to sustain [Ca2+] oscillations in vascular smooth muscle. Cell Calcium . 2007; 44 (6): 565-575 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Wang X, Zhang X, Dong XP, Samie M, et al.: TPC proteins are phosphoinositide- activated sodium-selective ion channels in endosomes and lysosomes. Cell . 2012; 151 (2): 372-383 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Cang C, Zhou Y, Navarro B, Seo YJ, et al.: mTOR regulates lysosomal ATP-sensitive two-pore Na(+) channels to adapt to metabolic state. Cell . 2013; 152 (4): 778-790 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Schieder M, Rötzer K, Brüggemann A, Biel M, et al.: Characterization of two-pore channel 2 (TPCN2)-mediated Ca2+ currents in isolated lysosomes. J Biol Chem . 2010; 285 (28): 21219-21222 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Pitt SJ, Funnell TM, Sitsapesan M, Venturi E, et al.: TPC2 is a novel NAADP-sensitive Ca2+ release channel, operating as a dual sensor of luminal pH and Ca2+. J Biol Chem . 2010; 285 (45): 35039-35046 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Zhang F. Reviewer Report For: Cytoplasmic nanojunctions between lysosomes and sarcoplasmic reticulum are required for specific calcium signaling [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :93 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.3986.r5274 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-93/v1#referee-response-5274 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 04 Dec 2014 Nicola Fameli , University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 04 Dec 2014 Author Response Dr. Fan Zhang we respond to your concerns below, by reporting your comments in quotes first and adding our response below them in bold. "Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little ... Continue reading Dr. Fan Zhang we respond to your concerns below, by reporting your comments in quotes first and adding our response below them in bold. "Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little to our further understanding of these L-SR junctional structures, if not at all, due to the (1) lack of solid experimental EM results in reconstructing L-SR junctions, (2) some dogmatic presumptions in L-SR model build up, (3) the inadequacy of validation of the model and (4) a failure to include information on the current disputes over the identity of NAADP-associated Ca2+ release channels in lysosomes." We address points (1) to (4) in detail below (numbering ours). 1. "Data are not convincing and lack quality." We fully disagree with this statement. Our set of data represents the most complete survey of these structures in vascular smooth muscle currently available in the literature. The micrographs are of high quality with very well defined membranes and identifiable organelles. "In defining L-SR junctions, the assurance of lysosome and SR identities is fundamental. Immune-gold staining has been widely applied in EM studies to ascertain different cell organelles as well as to conduct 3D reconstruction of cell structure 1 2. However, such a standard practice was excluded in this study as a ‘precaution’ to prevent compromising lysosome membrane definition." Immuno-gold staining was avoided not as a 'precaution', but because, while certainly enabling us to identify the desired organelles, it reduces visualization of their membranes, since the fixing procedure aimed at preserving tissue antigenicity and the staining protocol for label visualization seriously compromise the resolution of membrane structure required for accurate quantitative characterization of the L-SR junctions. The references this reviewer provides only corroborate our point. As explained in detail by first reference, SEM is less appropriate in this kind of study for a number of reasons: 1) One would need to expose lysosomes buried underneath the PM to visualize their surface membrane. This, as the article suggests, is best done by isolating the organelles. Hardly a technique that can serve the purpose of identifying L-SR junctions, whether we use immuno-gold or not; (2) As is evident from Fig 3 of the second reference, therein no membranes were visible in the micrograph with immuno-gold labeling. "In line with applying empirical judgments for identifying organelles to the EM data analysis, the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR, and deemed them to be worth studying (Figure 2)." Figure 2, as clearly explained in the text, contains some representative examples from our set of micrographs, but even from the subset in Fig. 2 it is evident that we did not only consider regions neighbouring the nucleus in our survey. This reviewer's statement that “the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR” mistakenly implies that the authors simply picked any two objects whose membrane were close enough to be deemed a junctional complex between lysosome and SR. This was most certainly not the case, as explained in detail in the article. The authors can add however that, in spite of our own laboratory's proven experience in electron microscopy (see for example references 39, 56, 57, 92, 98 in our article), we consulted with an expert in the field of electron microscopy, Prof. David Walker, and drew his immense (30 years) experience (including smooth muscle) to our own. We not only sought and received guidance, but were enlightened with respect to common practices regarding the identification of lysosomes and their junctions with SR. "In addition, the authors stated that there were few lysosomes found in the subplasmalemmal region, which implied that L-SR junctions were profoundly located around the nucleus. However, the fura-2 fluorescence images in Figure 1 as well as in the two citations used as basis of this study (10,11)3 4 exclusively demonstrated that the first phase lysosomal Ca2+ release initiated from a region around the cell membrane, suggesting that L-SR junctions should have cytoplasmic locations near the plasma membrane. It is clear that more reliable methods such as immune-gold staining are needed to resolve the contradictions over their own results." One does not exclude the other for a couple of reasons. First, the typical diameter and length of vascular smooth muscle cells are about 5 μm and 150 μm, respectively, which ensures that even so-called perinuclear lysosomes are never too far from the periphery. This fact alone would break the apparent contradiction raised. Moreover, the definition of cell periphery that one can gather from fluorescence measurements can easily cover more than 500 nm in depth. Therefore, at lower resolution fluorescence signals could appear close to the membrane yet be generated by perinuclear lysosomes. "2. The modeling is based on many assumed parameters and lacks reliable validation. To establish the L-SR nanojunctional model, the present study has introduced many assumptions to some critical parameters such as the distance between the lysosome and SR, the size of lysosome, and total number of lysosomes; many of which lack proper judgments." This point raised by the reviewer verges on the ridiculous. None of the stated parameters was assumed, as should be clear upon reading the article. The L-SR distance was measured, not assumed. The size of the lysosomes observed in micrographs was measured, not assumed. The total number of lysosomes was estimated from our observations, not assumed. We find it difficult to see where proper judgment is lacking, at least with respect to our contribution. "In the abstract section, the authors rationalized the application of EM in investigating L-SR junctions by stating “L -SR junction membrane separation has been estimated to be 400 nm and thus beyond the resolution of light microscopy ”. In defining the L-SR nanojunctions, they declared that lysosomes and SR “ must be separated by a distance of approximately 20 nm and be of the order of a few hundred nm in lateral dimensions ” by citing PM-SR junctions studies (10, 11) 3 4 . However, these two citations originated from the light microscope-based studies of L-SR junctions by the same group. Given the resolution limitation, these light microscopy results have no way to give an estimation as accurate as 20 nm. It is therefore confusing to find that these references fail to back up such claims, in my opinion." We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to an unfortunate (and clearly confusing) typographical error with respect to in-text numbering of citations. Our intention was to refer to Lee CH et al 2002 and Fameli N et al 2007, or references 92 and 39, respectively, in the present version. This typographical error will be rectified in a future version of the manuscript. "In reference 39 5, it has been proposed that the extracellular Ca2+ entered the cell through Na+/ Ca2+ exchanges, traversed PM-SR junctions to refill SR via Ca2+-ATPase and sustained cell Ca2+ oscillations. For the current L-SR model, this PM-SR modeling may be used as a comparison or reference system leading to the conclusion “ that L-SR had a similar 20 nm gap measured as that in PM-SR junctions. ” Given that there are no similarities of PM-SR to L-SR junctions, in terms of potency of Ca2+ movement due to Ca2+ gradient across PM and lysosomal membrane, biophysical property of Na+/ Ca2+ exchangers and TPC2 channels, and the actions of Ca2+-ATPase and RyR3 Ca2+ receptors, such a conclusion is not reliable from the modeling." The sentence in quotes (underlined above) does not appear in our article. Nevertheless let us provide the best rebuttal possible under these circumstances, and address the somewhat confusing comments made by this reviewer in terms of considerations of the relationship between junctional architecture and the biophysical properties of channels and transporters within different junctions. We measured the distance of observed junctional widths between lysosomes and the sarcoplasmic reticulum with closely apposed “junctional” membranes. The calculated average for the size of measured junctional width was not significantly different from the averaged size of PM-SR junctions previously published and cited in this manuscript. We draw the reader to this striking similarity, and relate this to the capacity of the “nanojunction” to hold and concentrate released calcium. In this respect the precise behaviour of each junction will of course be determined by the density and biophysical properties of local pumps and channels, much like the behaviours vary between other previously defined nanojunctions. " In addition, a major concern is that this model is too simplistic as it excludes many other Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in both lysosomes and SR, which may influence the accuracy of junction width or prediction in modeling." It is always best to start with a minimal model and to make the least number of assumptions possible while not compromising the capacity to inform by way of outcomes. This is what the authors delivered. A more complex model would require the addition of a far greater number of assumptions and, in some cases, these would be difficult to justify. Given earlier comments by this reviewer regarding the limitations of assumptions, it is surprising that such minima are not better appreciated, not least because the model in its current form is sufficient to verify a hypothesis based on a substantial body of peer reviewed work (ref. 10, 11 in the article). As the strength of supporting experimental data grows, it would of course be beneficial to the field if the present model were developed further to incorporate other “regulatory mechanisms” to assess with greater accuracy these and similar signalling mechanisms that lie beyond the reach of current technologies. "3. Some assumptions contradict well-established concepts due to a lack of consideration of lysosome biology. In explaining the shoulder Ca 2+ signal (Figure 1), the authors introduced up to four assumptions and calculated that ~60-100 lysosomes were needed to generate this shoulder peak." In constructing quantitative (computational) models, and particularly with respect to those that are applied to systems beyond the resolution of current technologies, one is necessarily required to make justified assumptions. All assumptions made are both appropriate and plausible, and are justified by reference to the literature. "They verified these lysosome numbers with their TEM images that “can expect a total of about 110 lysosomes/cell”. Considering these two calculations however, it is obviously problematic because almost all lysosomes (100 out of 110 each cell) will need to functionally contribute to the L-SR junctional structure formation." This is a biased reading of our findings, in that we suggest that a range of 60 to 100 lysosomes would have to contribute to the shoulder magnitude, under our model’s conditions, not exactly 100. "In addition, TEM measurements showed the lysosome dimensions (Table 1) to be major axis of 398 91 nm and minor axis of 325 65 nm. Given the L-SR junction model features “junctional membrane separation and extension are about 15 nm and 300 nm”, it could be postulated that all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension." This reviewer’s postulate forcing the lysosomes to “align well” does not emerge naturally from our model. Would this reviewer explain what relationship between the size of the observed lysosomes (major and minor axes) and the portion of the lysosomal surface participating in the L-SR junction suggests that “all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension”? This is most unclear from this reviewer’s comments. It is instead clear upon reading the article that nothing in our model nor in our conclusions depends on such postulate. "Therefore, this L-SR model actually describes a scenario whereby in PASMCs the majority of lysosomes act as the components of L-SR junctions and uniformly have impeccable arrangements to oppose the SR at 20 nm apart." This last sentence is a conclusion that this reviewer makes and stems directly from this reviewer’s postulate—which I must re-emphasize we do not make—and not from our model. "However, this idealistic model largely contradicts the well-established concepts that lysosomes are active organelles that dynamically exert their different functions by their movements and other activities." The contradiction arises from this reviewer postulated interpretation of our findings. We certainly don’t claim anything that goes against the established observations of lysosmal mobility. "4. TPCs as lysosomal Ca2+ release channels are questionable. In quantifying the L-SR model, the authors arbitrarily assumed TPC2 as the only lysosomal NADDP-activated Ca2+ channel by totally disregarding recent findings that TPC2 is not a lysosomal NAADP-associated Ca2+ channel, but a Na+ channel6, 7 . They also ignored the contribution of other lysosomal channels or transporters that may contribute to such L-SR junction activity. This prejudice in channel selection inevitably invites doubts on the reliability of this proposed L-SR model." The authors used a minimal model to examine junctional communication at the L-SR nanjunction. The designation of TPC2 was supported by the fact that TPC2: (1) Is primarily targeted to lysosomes; (2) Is required to support NAAD-dependent calcium signalling; (3) Has been shown to be permeable to calcium by at least two previous studies. Controversy in the field is not ignored, as the authors cite articles that provide detailed coverage on disputes relating to TPC2 calcium permeability. That there is conflict in the field does not negate the use of data derived from papers that demonstrate calcium permeability of these channels. "In addition, the authors collectively adopted electrophysiological data from other research groups without taking into consideration any incompatibilities with the model. For example, in obtaining the total number of TPC2 channels on a lysosome, the authors “…dividing the macroscopic whole lysosome conductance, calculated from the current values reported in a recent study on TPC2-mediated Ca2+ current in isolated lysosomes (48) 8, by the single channel conductances(45) 9, thus estimating that a typical lysosomal membrane may contain ~20 TPC2”. Unfortunately, the lysosomes used in the whole lysosome conductance recording were not normal lysosomes, but lysosomes manipulated by overexpression of TPC2 and were undergoing size enlargement. With these changes, the modified lysosomes would have a much higher TPC2 conductance compared with normal lysosomes with a natural biogenesis. It is important to use a TPC2 conductance and other parameters of channels from lysosomes of normal cells without an artificial transgene for such modeling. Otherwise, the modeling prediction will be inaccurate and the relevance of such a model will be vague." The authors used the best evidence available in support of the present model. At no point was it stated that values used were anything more than estimates derived by best practice from cited and peer reviewed research publications by others. Assuming something other than that which can be derived falls in to the realm of unjustifiable assumption. With present information, assuming a higher TPC2 conductance would be just that. "In conclusion; aside from the issue that the current L-SR nanojunction model fails to contribute any new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture, my concerns over the reliability of data and modelling parameters are rather serious – this work is therefore ‘Not Approved’ in its current version." We think that, within the limits of the available techniques and knowledge, our work not only contributes "new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture", but also a novel approach to the study of nanojunctional signals. Dr. Fan Zhang we respond to your concerns below, by reporting your comments in quotes first and adding our response below them in bold. "Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little to our further understanding of these L-SR junctional structures, if not at all, due to the (1) lack of solid experimental EM results in reconstructing L-SR junctions, (2) some dogmatic presumptions in L-SR model build up, (3) the inadequacy of validation of the model and (4) a failure to include information on the current disputes over the identity of NAADP-associated Ca2+ release channels in lysosomes." We address points (1) to (4) in detail below (numbering ours). 1. "Data are not convincing and lack quality." We fully disagree with this statement. Our set of data represents the most complete survey of these structures in vascular smooth muscle currently available in the literature. The micrographs are of high quality with very well defined membranes and identifiable organelles. "In defining L-SR junctions, the assurance of lysosome and SR identities is fundamental. Immune-gold staining has been widely applied in EM studies to ascertain different cell organelles as well as to conduct 3D reconstruction of cell structure 1 2. However, such a standard practice was excluded in this study as a ‘precaution’ to prevent compromising lysosome membrane definition." Immuno-gold staining was avoided not as a 'precaution', but because, while certainly enabling us to identify the desired organelles, it reduces visualization of their membranes, since the fixing procedure aimed at preserving tissue antigenicity and the staining protocol for label visualization seriously compromise the resolution of membrane structure required for accurate quantitative characterization of the L-SR junctions. The references this reviewer provides only corroborate our point. As explained in detail by first reference, SEM is less appropriate in this kind of study for a number of reasons: 1) One would need to expose lysosomes buried underneath the PM to visualize their surface membrane. This, as the article suggests, is best done by isolating the organelles. Hardly a technique that can serve the purpose of identifying L-SR junctions, whether we use immuno-gold or not; (2) As is evident from Fig 3 of the second reference, therein no membranes were visible in the micrograph with immuno-gold labeling. "In line with applying empirical judgments for identifying organelles to the EM data analysis, the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR, and deemed them to be worth studying (Figure 2)." Figure 2, as clearly explained in the text, contains some representative examples from our set of micrographs, but even from the subset in Fig. 2 it is evident that we did not only consider regions neighbouring the nucleus in our survey. This reviewer's statement that “the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR” mistakenly implies that the authors simply picked any two objects whose membrane were close enough to be deemed a junctional complex between lysosome and SR. This was most certainly not the case, as explained in detail in the article. The authors can add however that, in spite of our own laboratory's proven experience in electron microscopy (see for example references 39, 56, 57, 92, 98 in our article), we consulted with an expert in the field of electron microscopy, Prof. David Walker, and drew his immense (30 years) experience (including smooth muscle) to our own. We not only sought and received guidance, but were enlightened with respect to common practices regarding the identification of lysosomes and their junctions with SR. "In addition, the authors stated that there were few lysosomes found in the subplasmalemmal region, which implied that L-SR junctions were profoundly located around the nucleus. However, the fura-2 fluorescence images in Figure 1 as well as in the two citations used as basis of this study (10,11)3 4 exclusively demonstrated that the first phase lysosomal Ca2+ release initiated from a region around the cell membrane, suggesting that L-SR junctions should have cytoplasmic locations near the plasma membrane. It is clear that more reliable methods such as immune-gold staining are needed to resolve the contradictions over their own results." One does not exclude the other for a couple of reasons. First, the typical diameter and length of vascular smooth muscle cells are about 5 μm and 150 μm, respectively, which ensures that even so-called perinuclear lysosomes are never too far from the periphery. This fact alone would break the apparent contradiction raised. Moreover, the definition of cell periphery that one can gather from fluorescence measurements can easily cover more than 500 nm in depth. Therefore, at lower resolution fluorescence signals could appear close to the membrane yet be generated by perinuclear lysosomes. "2. The modeling is based on many assumed parameters and lacks reliable validation. To establish the L-SR nanojunctional model, the present study has introduced many assumptions to some critical parameters such as the distance between the lysosome and SR, the size of lysosome, and total number of lysosomes; many of which lack proper judgments." This point raised by the reviewer verges on the ridiculous. None of the stated parameters was assumed, as should be clear upon reading the article. The L-SR distance was measured, not assumed. The size of the lysosomes observed in micrographs was measured, not assumed. The total number of lysosomes was estimated from our observations, not assumed. We find it difficult to see where proper judgment is lacking, at least with respect to our contribution. "In the abstract section, the authors rationalized the application of EM in investigating L-SR junctions by stating “L -SR junction membrane separation has been estimated to be 400 nm and thus beyond the resolution of light microscopy ”. In defining the L-SR nanojunctions, they declared that lysosomes and SR “ must be separated by a distance of approximately 20 nm and be of the order of a few hundred nm in lateral dimensions ” by citing PM-SR junctions studies (10, 11) 3 4 . However, these two citations originated from the light microscope-based studies of L-SR junctions by the same group. Given the resolution limitation, these light microscopy results have no way to give an estimation as accurate as 20 nm. It is therefore confusing to find that these references fail to back up such claims, in my opinion." We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to an unfortunate (and clearly confusing) typographical error with respect to in-text numbering of citations. Our intention was to refer to Lee CH et al 2002 and Fameli N et al 2007, or references 92 and 39, respectively, in the present version. This typographical error will be rectified in a future version of the manuscript. "In reference 39 5, it has been proposed that the extracellular Ca2+ entered the cell through Na+/ Ca2+ exchanges, traversed PM-SR junctions to refill SR via Ca2+-ATPase and sustained cell Ca2+ oscillations. For the current L-SR model, this PM-SR modeling may be used as a comparison or reference system leading to the conclusion “ that L-SR had a similar 20 nm gap measured as that in PM-SR junctions. ” Given that there are no similarities of PM-SR to L-SR junctions, in terms of potency of Ca2+ movement due to Ca2+ gradient across PM and lysosomal membrane, biophysical property of Na+/ Ca2+ exchangers and TPC2 channels, and the actions of Ca2+-ATPase and RyR3 Ca2+ receptors, such a conclusion is not reliable from the modeling." The sentence in quotes (underlined above) does not appear in our article. Nevertheless let us provide the best rebuttal possible under these circumstances, and address the somewhat confusing comments made by this reviewer in terms of considerations of the relationship between junctional architecture and the biophysical properties of channels and transporters within different junctions. We measured the distance of observed junctional widths between lysosomes and the sarcoplasmic reticulum with closely apposed “junctional” membranes. The calculated average for the size of measured junctional width was not significantly different from the averaged size of PM-SR junctions previously published and cited in this manuscript. We draw the reader to this striking similarity, and relate this to the capacity of the “nanojunction” to hold and concentrate released calcium. In this respect the precise behaviour of each junction will of course be determined by the density and biophysical properties of local pumps and channels, much like the behaviours vary between other previously defined nanojunctions. " In addition, a major concern is that this model is too simplistic as it excludes many other Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in both lysosomes and SR, which may influence the accuracy of junction width or prediction in modeling." It is always best to start with a minimal model and to make the least number of assumptions possible while not compromising the capacity to inform by way of outcomes. This is what the authors delivered. A more complex model would require the addition of a far greater number of assumptions and, in some cases, these would be difficult to justify. Given earlier comments by this reviewer regarding the limitations of assumptions, it is surprising that such minima are not better appreciated, not least because the model in its current form is sufficient to verify a hypothesis based on a substantial body of peer reviewed work (ref. 10, 11 in the article). As the strength of supporting experimental data grows, it would of course be beneficial to the field if the present model were developed further to incorporate other “regulatory mechanisms” to assess with greater accuracy these and similar signalling mechanisms that lie beyond the reach of current technologies. "3. Some assumptions contradict well-established concepts due to a lack of consideration of lysosome biology. In explaining the shoulder Ca 2+ signal (Figure 1), the authors introduced up to four assumptions and calculated that ~60-100 lysosomes were needed to generate this shoulder peak." In constructing quantitative (computational) models, and particularly with respect to those that are applied to systems beyond the resolution of current technologies, one is necessarily required to make justified assumptions. All assumptions made are both appropriate and plausible, and are justified by reference to the literature. "They verified these lysosome numbers with their TEM images that “can expect a total of about 110 lysosomes/cell”. Considering these two calculations however, it is obviously problematic because almost all lysosomes (100 out of 110 each cell) will need to functionally contribute to the L-SR junctional structure formation." This is a biased reading of our findings, in that we suggest that a range of 60 to 100 lysosomes would have to contribute to the shoulder magnitude, under our model’s conditions, not exactly 100. "In addition, TEM measurements showed the lysosome dimensions (Table 1) to be major axis of 398 91 nm and minor axis of 325 65 nm. Given the L-SR junction model features “junctional membrane separation and extension are about 15 nm and 300 nm”, it could be postulated that all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension." This reviewer’s postulate forcing the lysosomes to “align well” does not emerge naturally from our model. Would this reviewer explain what relationship between the size of the observed lysosomes (major and minor axes) and the portion of the lysosomal surface participating in the L-SR junction suggests that “all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension”? This is most unclear from this reviewer’s comments. It is instead clear upon reading the article that nothing in our model nor in our conclusions depends on such postulate. "Therefore, this L-SR model actually describes a scenario whereby in PASMCs the majority of lysosomes act as the components of L-SR junctions and uniformly have impeccable arrangements to oppose the SR at 20 nm apart." This last sentence is a conclusion that this reviewer makes and stems directly from this reviewer’s postulate—which I must re-emphasize we do not make—and not from our model. "However, this idealistic model largely contradicts the well-established concepts that lysosomes are active organelles that dynamically exert their different functions by their movements and other activities." The contradiction arises from this reviewer postulated interpretation of our findings. We certainly don’t claim anything that goes against the established observations of lysosmal mobility. "4. TPCs as lysosomal Ca2+ release channels are questionable. In quantifying the L-SR model, the authors arbitrarily assumed TPC2 as the only lysosomal NADDP-activated Ca2+ channel by totally disregarding recent findings that TPC2 is not a lysosomal NAADP-associated Ca2+ channel, but a Na+ channel6, 7 . They also ignored the contribution of other lysosomal channels or transporters that may contribute to such L-SR junction activity. This prejudice in channel selection inevitably invites doubts on the reliability of this proposed L-SR model." The authors used a minimal model to examine junctional communication at the L-SR nanjunction. The designation of TPC2 was supported by the fact that TPC2: (1) Is primarily targeted to lysosomes; (2) Is required to support NAAD-dependent calcium signalling; (3) Has been shown to be permeable to calcium by at least two previous studies. Controversy in the field is not ignored, as the authors cite articles that provide detailed coverage on disputes relating to TPC2 calcium permeability. That there is conflict in the field does not negate the use of data derived from papers that demonstrate calcium permeability of these channels. "In addition, the authors collectively adopted electrophysiological data from other research groups without taking into consideration any incompatibilities with the model. For example, in obtaining the total number of TPC2 channels on a lysosome, the authors “…dividing the macroscopic whole lysosome conductance, calculated from the current values reported in a recent study on TPC2-mediated Ca2+ current in isolated lysosomes (48) 8, by the single channel conductances(45) 9, thus estimating that a typical lysosomal membrane may contain ~20 TPC2”. Unfortunately, the lysosomes used in the whole lysosome conductance recording were not normal lysosomes, but lysosomes manipulated by overexpression of TPC2 and were undergoing size enlargement. With these changes, the modified lysosomes would have a much higher TPC2 conductance compared with normal lysosomes with a natural biogenesis. It is important to use a TPC2 conductance and other parameters of channels from lysosomes of normal cells without an artificial transgene for such modeling. Otherwise, the modeling prediction will be inaccurate and the relevance of such a model will be vague." The authors used the best evidence available in support of the present model. At no point was it stated that values used were anything more than estimates derived by best practice from cited and peer reviewed research publications by others. Assuming something other than that which can be derived falls in to the realm of unjustifiable assumption. With present information, assuming a higher TPC2 conductance would be just that. "In conclusion; aside from the issue that the current L-SR nanojunction model fails to contribute any new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture, my concerns over the reliability of data and modelling parameters are rather serious – this work is therefore ‘Not Approved’ in its current version." We think that, within the limits of the available techniques and knowledge, our work not only contributes "new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture", but also a novel approach to the study of nanojunctional signals. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 04 Dec 2014 Nicola Fameli , University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 04 Dec 2014 Author Response Dr. Fan Zhang we respond to your concerns below, by reporting your comments in quotes first and adding our response below them in bold. "Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little ... Continue reading Dr. Fan Zhang we respond to your concerns below, by reporting your comments in quotes first and adding our response below them in bold. "Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little to our further understanding of these L-SR junctional structures, if not at all, due to the (1) lack of solid experimental EM results in reconstructing L-SR junctions, (2) some dogmatic presumptions in L-SR model build up, (3) the inadequacy of validation of the model and (4) a failure to include information on the current disputes over the identity of NAADP-associated Ca2+ release channels in lysosomes." We address points (1) to (4) in detail below (numbering ours). 1. "Data are not convincing and lack quality." We fully disagree with this statement. Our set of data represents the most complete survey of these structures in vascular smooth muscle currently available in the literature. The micrographs are of high quality with very well defined membranes and identifiable organelles. "In defining L-SR junctions, the assurance of lysosome and SR identities is fundamental. Immune-gold staining has been widely applied in EM studies to ascertain different cell organelles as well as to conduct 3D reconstruction of cell structure 1 2. However, such a standard practice was excluded in this study as a ‘precaution’ to prevent compromising lysosome membrane definition." Immuno-gold staining was avoided not as a 'precaution', but because, while certainly enabling us to identify the desired organelles, it reduces visualization of their membranes, since the fixing procedure aimed at preserving tissue antigenicity and the staining protocol for label visualization seriously compromise the resolution of membrane structure required for accurate quantitative characterization of the L-SR junctions. The references this reviewer provides only corroborate our point. As explained in detail by first reference, SEM is less appropriate in this kind of study for a number of reasons: 1) One would need to expose lysosomes buried underneath the PM to visualize their surface membrane. This, as the article suggests, is best done by isolating the organelles. Hardly a technique that can serve the purpose of identifying L-SR junctions, whether we use immuno-gold or not; (2) As is evident from Fig 3 of the second reference, therein no membranes were visible in the micrograph with immuno-gold labeling. "In line with applying empirical judgments for identifying organelles to the EM data analysis, the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR, and deemed them to be worth studying (Figure 2)." Figure 2, as clearly explained in the text, contains some representative examples from our set of micrographs, but even from the subset in Fig. 2 it is evident that we did not only consider regions neighbouring the nucleus in our survey. This reviewer's statement that “the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR” mistakenly implies that the authors simply picked any two objects whose membrane were close enough to be deemed a junctional complex between lysosome and SR. This was most certainly not the case, as explained in detail in the article. The authors can add however that, in spite of our own laboratory's proven experience in electron microscopy (see for example references 39, 56, 57, 92, 98 in our article), we consulted with an expert in the field of electron microscopy, Prof. David Walker, and drew his immense (30 years) experience (including smooth muscle) to our own. We not only sought and received guidance, but were enlightened with respect to common practices regarding the identification of lysosomes and their junctions with SR. "In addition, the authors stated that there were few lysosomes found in the subplasmalemmal region, which implied that L-SR junctions were profoundly located around the nucleus. However, the fura-2 fluorescence images in Figure 1 as well as in the two citations used as basis of this study (10,11)3 4 exclusively demonstrated that the first phase lysosomal Ca2+ release initiated from a region around the cell membrane, suggesting that L-SR junctions should have cytoplasmic locations near the plasma membrane. It is clear that more reliable methods such as immune-gold staining are needed to resolve the contradictions over their own results." One does not exclude the other for a couple of reasons. First, the typical diameter and length of vascular smooth muscle cells are about 5 μm and 150 μm, respectively, which ensures that even so-called perinuclear lysosomes are never too far from the periphery. This fact alone would break the apparent contradiction raised. Moreover, the definition of cell periphery that one can gather from fluorescence measurements can easily cover more than 500 nm in depth. Therefore, at lower resolution fluorescence signals could appear close to the membrane yet be generated by perinuclear lysosomes. "2. The modeling is based on many assumed parameters and lacks reliable validation. To establish the L-SR nanojunctional model, the present study has introduced many assumptions to some critical parameters such as the distance between the lysosome and SR, the size of lysosome, and total number of lysosomes; many of which lack proper judgments." This point raised by the reviewer verges on the ridiculous. None of the stated parameters was assumed, as should be clear upon reading the article. The L-SR distance was measured, not assumed. The size of the lysosomes observed in micrographs was measured, not assumed. The total number of lysosomes was estimated from our observations, not assumed. We find it difficult to see where proper judgment is lacking, at least with respect to our contribution. "In the abstract section, the authors rationalized the application of EM in investigating L-SR junctions by stating “L -SR junction membrane separation has been estimated to be 400 nm and thus beyond the resolution of light microscopy ”. In defining the L-SR nanojunctions, they declared that lysosomes and SR “ must be separated by a distance of approximately 20 nm and be of the order of a few hundred nm in lateral dimensions ” by citing PM-SR junctions studies (10, 11) 3 4 . However, these two citations originated from the light microscope-based studies of L-SR junctions by the same group. Given the resolution limitation, these light microscopy results have no way to give an estimation as accurate as 20 nm. It is therefore confusing to find that these references fail to back up such claims, in my opinion." We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to an unfortunate (and clearly confusing) typographical error with respect to in-text numbering of citations. Our intention was to refer to Lee CH et al 2002 and Fameli N et al 2007, or references 92 and 39, respectively, in the present version. This typographical error will be rectified in a future version of the manuscript. "In reference 39 5, it has been proposed that the extracellular Ca2+ entered the cell through Na+/ Ca2+ exchanges, traversed PM-SR junctions to refill SR via Ca2+-ATPase and sustained cell Ca2+ oscillations. For the current L-SR model, this PM-SR modeling may be used as a comparison or reference system leading to the conclusion “ that L-SR had a similar 20 nm gap measured as that in PM-SR junctions. ” Given that there are no similarities of PM-SR to L-SR junctions, in terms of potency of Ca2+ movement due to Ca2+ gradient across PM and lysosomal membrane, biophysical property of Na+/ Ca2+ exchangers and TPC2 channels, and the actions of Ca2+-ATPase and RyR3 Ca2+ receptors, such a conclusion is not reliable from the modeling." The sentence in quotes (underlined above) does not appear in our article. Nevertheless let us provide the best rebuttal possible under these circumstances, and address the somewhat confusing comments made by this reviewer in terms of considerations of the relationship between junctional architecture and the biophysical properties of channels and transporters within different junctions. We measured the distance of observed junctional widths between lysosomes and the sarcoplasmic reticulum with closely apposed “junctional” membranes. The calculated average for the size of measured junctional width was not significantly different from the averaged size of PM-SR junctions previously published and cited in this manuscript. We draw the reader to this striking similarity, and relate this to the capacity of the “nanojunction” to hold and concentrate released calcium. In this respect the precise behaviour of each junction will of course be determined by the density and biophysical properties of local pumps and channels, much like the behaviours vary between other previously defined nanojunctions. " In addition, a major concern is that this model is too simplistic as it excludes many other Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in both lysosomes and SR, which may influence the accuracy of junction width or prediction in modeling." It is always best to start with a minimal model and to make the least number of assumptions possible while not compromising the capacity to inform by way of outcomes. This is what the authors delivered. A more complex model would require the addition of a far greater number of assumptions and, in some cases, these would be difficult to justify. Given earlier comments by this reviewer regarding the limitations of assumptions, it is surprising that such minima are not better appreciated, not least because the model in its current form is sufficient to verify a hypothesis based on a substantial body of peer reviewed work (ref. 10, 11 in the article). As the strength of supporting experimental data grows, it would of course be beneficial to the field if the present model were developed further to incorporate other “regulatory mechanisms” to assess with greater accuracy these and similar signalling mechanisms that lie beyond the reach of current technologies. "3. Some assumptions contradict well-established concepts due to a lack of consideration of lysosome biology. In explaining the shoulder Ca 2+ signal (Figure 1), the authors introduced up to four assumptions and calculated that ~60-100 lysosomes were needed to generate this shoulder peak." In constructing quantitative (computational) models, and particularly with respect to those that are applied to systems beyond the resolution of current technologies, one is necessarily required to make justified assumptions. All assumptions made are both appropriate and plausible, and are justified by reference to the literature. "They verified these lysosome numbers with their TEM images that “can expect a total of about 110 lysosomes/cell”. Considering these two calculations however, it is obviously problematic because almost all lysosomes (100 out of 110 each cell) will need to functionally contribute to the L-SR junctional structure formation." This is a biased reading of our findings, in that we suggest that a range of 60 to 100 lysosomes would have to contribute to the shoulder magnitude, under our model’s conditions, not exactly 100. "In addition, TEM measurements showed the lysosome dimensions (Table 1) to be major axis of 398 91 nm and minor axis of 325 65 nm. Given the L-SR junction model features “junctional membrane separation and extension are about 15 nm and 300 nm”, it could be postulated that all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension." This reviewer’s postulate forcing the lysosomes to “align well” does not emerge naturally from our model. Would this reviewer explain what relationship between the size of the observed lysosomes (major and minor axes) and the portion of the lysosomal surface participating in the L-SR junction suggests that “all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension”? This is most unclear from this reviewer’s comments. It is instead clear upon reading the article that nothing in our model nor in our conclusions depends on such postulate. "Therefore, this L-SR model actually describes a scenario whereby in PASMCs the majority of lysosomes act as the components of L-SR junctions and uniformly have impeccable arrangements to oppose the SR at 20 nm apart." This last sentence is a conclusion that this reviewer makes and stems directly from this reviewer’s postulate—which I must re-emphasize we do not make—and not from our model. "However, this idealistic model largely contradicts the well-established concepts that lysosomes are active organelles that dynamically exert their different functions by their movements and other activities." The contradiction arises from this reviewer postulated interpretation of our findings. We certainly don’t claim anything that goes against the established observations of lysosmal mobility. "4. TPCs as lysosomal Ca2+ release channels are questionable. In quantifying the L-SR model, the authors arbitrarily assumed TPC2 as the only lysosomal NADDP-activated Ca2+ channel by totally disregarding recent findings that TPC2 is not a lysosomal NAADP-associated Ca2+ channel, but a Na+ channel6, 7 . They also ignored the contribution of other lysosomal channels or transporters that may contribute to such L-SR junction activity. This prejudice in channel selection inevitably invites doubts on the reliability of this proposed L-SR model." The authors used a minimal model to examine junctional communication at the L-SR nanjunction. The designation of TPC2 was supported by the fact that TPC2: (1) Is primarily targeted to lysosomes; (2) Is required to support NAAD-dependent calcium signalling; (3) Has been shown to be permeable to calcium by at least two previous studies. Controversy in the field is not ignored, as the authors cite articles that provide detailed coverage on disputes relating to TPC2 calcium permeability. That there is conflict in the field does not negate the use of data derived from papers that demonstrate calcium permeability of these channels. "In addition, the authors collectively adopted electrophysiological data from other research groups without taking into consideration any incompatibilities with the model. For example, in obtaining the total number of TPC2 channels on a lysosome, the authors “…dividing the macroscopic whole lysosome conductance, calculated from the current values reported in a recent study on TPC2-mediated Ca2+ current in isolated lysosomes (48) 8, by the single channel conductances(45) 9, thus estimating that a typical lysosomal membrane may contain ~20 TPC2”. Unfortunately, the lysosomes used in the whole lysosome conductance recording were not normal lysosomes, but lysosomes manipulated by overexpression of TPC2 and were undergoing size enlargement. With these changes, the modified lysosomes would have a much higher TPC2 conductance compared with normal lysosomes with a natural biogenesis. It is important to use a TPC2 conductance and other parameters of channels from lysosomes of normal cells without an artificial transgene for such modeling. Otherwise, the modeling prediction will be inaccurate and the relevance of such a model will be vague." The authors used the best evidence available in support of the present model. At no point was it stated that values used were anything more than estimates derived by best practice from cited and peer reviewed research publications by others. Assuming something other than that which can be derived falls in to the realm of unjustifiable assumption. With present information, assuming a higher TPC2 conductance would be just that. "In conclusion; aside from the issue that the current L-SR nanojunction model fails to contribute any new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture, my concerns over the reliability of data and modelling parameters are rather serious – this work is therefore ‘Not Approved’ in its current version." We think that, within the limits of the available techniques and knowledge, our work not only contributes "new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture", but also a novel approach to the study of nanojunctional signals. Dr. Fan Zhang we respond to your concerns below, by reporting your comments in quotes first and adding our response below them in bold. "Unfortunately, all these efforts will add little to our further understanding of these L-SR junctional structures, if not at all, due to the (1) lack of solid experimental EM results in reconstructing L-SR junctions, (2) some dogmatic presumptions in L-SR model build up, (3) the inadequacy of validation of the model and (4) a failure to include information on the current disputes over the identity of NAADP-associated Ca2+ release channels in lysosomes." We address points (1) to (4) in detail below (numbering ours). 1. "Data are not convincing and lack quality." We fully disagree with this statement. Our set of data represents the most complete survey of these structures in vascular smooth muscle currently available in the literature. The micrographs are of high quality with very well defined membranes and identifiable organelles. "In defining L-SR junctions, the assurance of lysosome and SR identities is fundamental. Immune-gold staining has been widely applied in EM studies to ascertain different cell organelles as well as to conduct 3D reconstruction of cell structure 1 2. However, such a standard practice was excluded in this study as a ‘precaution’ to prevent compromising lysosome membrane definition." Immuno-gold staining was avoided not as a 'precaution', but because, while certainly enabling us to identify the desired organelles, it reduces visualization of their membranes, since the fixing procedure aimed at preserving tissue antigenicity and the staining protocol for label visualization seriously compromise the resolution of membrane structure required for accurate quantitative characterization of the L-SR junctions. The references this reviewer provides only corroborate our point. As explained in detail by first reference, SEM is less appropriate in this kind of study for a number of reasons: 1) One would need to expose lysosomes buried underneath the PM to visualize their surface membrane. This, as the article suggests, is best done by isolating the organelles. Hardly a technique that can serve the purpose of identifying L-SR junctions, whether we use immuno-gold or not; (2) As is evident from Fig 3 of the second reference, therein no membranes were visible in the micrograph with immuno-gold labeling. "In line with applying empirical judgments for identifying organelles to the EM data analysis, the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR, and deemed them to be worth studying (Figure 2)." Figure 2, as clearly explained in the text, contains some representative examples from our set of micrographs, but even from the subset in Fig. 2 it is evident that we did not only consider regions neighbouring the nucleus in our survey. This reviewer's statement that “the authors extrapolated the opposing and proximal organelles adjacent to the nucleus as lysosomes and SR” mistakenly implies that the authors simply picked any two objects whose membrane were close enough to be deemed a junctional complex between lysosome and SR. This was most certainly not the case, as explained in detail in the article. The authors can add however that, in spite of our own laboratory's proven experience in electron microscopy (see for example references 39, 56, 57, 92, 98 in our article), we consulted with an expert in the field of electron microscopy, Prof. David Walker, and drew his immense (30 years) experience (including smooth muscle) to our own. We not only sought and received guidance, but were enlightened with respect to common practices regarding the identification of lysosomes and their junctions with SR. "In addition, the authors stated that there were few lysosomes found in the subplasmalemmal region, which implied that L-SR junctions were profoundly located around the nucleus. However, the fura-2 fluorescence images in Figure 1 as well as in the two citations used as basis of this study (10,11)3 4 exclusively demonstrated that the first phase lysosomal Ca2+ release initiated from a region around the cell membrane, suggesting that L-SR junctions should have cytoplasmic locations near the plasma membrane. It is clear that more reliable methods such as immune-gold staining are needed to resolve the contradictions over their own results." One does not exclude the other for a couple of reasons. First, the typical diameter and length of vascular smooth muscle cells are about 5 μm and 150 μm, respectively, which ensures that even so-called perinuclear lysosomes are never too far from the periphery. This fact alone would break the apparent contradiction raised. Moreover, the definition of cell periphery that one can gather from fluorescence measurements can easily cover more than 500 nm in depth. Therefore, at lower resolution fluorescence signals could appear close to the membrane yet be generated by perinuclear lysosomes. "2. The modeling is based on many assumed parameters and lacks reliable validation. To establish the L-SR nanojunctional model, the present study has introduced many assumptions to some critical parameters such as the distance between the lysosome and SR, the size of lysosome, and total number of lysosomes; many of which lack proper judgments." This point raised by the reviewer verges on the ridiculous. None of the stated parameters was assumed, as should be clear upon reading the article. The L-SR distance was measured, not assumed. The size of the lysosomes observed in micrographs was measured, not assumed. The total number of lysosomes was estimated from our observations, not assumed. We find it difficult to see where proper judgment is lacking, at least with respect to our contribution. "In the abstract section, the authors rationalized the application of EM in investigating L-SR junctions by stating “L -SR junction membrane separation has been estimated to be 400 nm and thus beyond the resolution of light microscopy ”. In defining the L-SR nanojunctions, they declared that lysosomes and SR “ must be separated by a distance of approximately 20 nm and be of the order of a few hundred nm in lateral dimensions ” by citing PM-SR junctions studies (10, 11) 3 4 . However, these two citations originated from the light microscope-based studies of L-SR junctions by the same group. Given the resolution limitation, these light microscopy results have no way to give an estimation as accurate as 20 nm. It is therefore confusing to find that these references fail to back up such claims, in my opinion." We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to an unfortunate (and clearly confusing) typographical error with respect to in-text numbering of citations. Our intention was to refer to Lee CH et al 2002 and Fameli N et al 2007, or references 92 and 39, respectively, in the present version. This typographical error will be rectified in a future version of the manuscript. "In reference 39 5, it has been proposed that the extracellular Ca2+ entered the cell through Na+/ Ca2+ exchanges, traversed PM-SR junctions to refill SR via Ca2+-ATPase and sustained cell Ca2+ oscillations. For the current L-SR model, this PM-SR modeling may be used as a comparison or reference system leading to the conclusion “ that L-SR had a similar 20 nm gap measured as that in PM-SR junctions. ” Given that there are no similarities of PM-SR to L-SR junctions, in terms of potency of Ca2+ movement due to Ca2+ gradient across PM and lysosomal membrane, biophysical property of Na+/ Ca2+ exchangers and TPC2 channels, and the actions of Ca2+-ATPase and RyR3 Ca2+ receptors, such a conclusion is not reliable from the modeling." The sentence in quotes (underlined above) does not appear in our article. Nevertheless let us provide the best rebuttal possible under these circumstances, and address the somewhat confusing comments made by this reviewer in terms of considerations of the relationship between junctional architecture and the biophysical properties of channels and transporters within different junctions. We measured the distance of observed junctional widths between lysosomes and the sarcoplasmic reticulum with closely apposed “junctional” membranes. The calculated average for the size of measured junctional width was not significantly different from the averaged size of PM-SR junctions previously published and cited in this manuscript. We draw the reader to this striking similarity, and relate this to the capacity of the “nanojunction” to hold and concentrate released calcium. In this respect the precise behaviour of each junction will of course be determined by the density and biophysical properties of local pumps and channels, much like the behaviours vary between other previously defined nanojunctions. " In addition, a major concern is that this model is too simplistic as it excludes many other Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in both lysosomes and SR, which may influence the accuracy of junction width or prediction in modeling." It is always best to start with a minimal model and to make the least number of assumptions possible while not compromising the capacity to inform by way of outcomes. This is what the authors delivered. A more complex model would require the addition of a far greater number of assumptions and, in some cases, these would be difficult to justify. Given earlier comments by this reviewer regarding the limitations of assumptions, it is surprising that such minima are not better appreciated, not least because the model in its current form is sufficient to verify a hypothesis based on a substantial body of peer reviewed work (ref. 10, 11 in the article). As the strength of supporting experimental data grows, it would of course be beneficial to the field if the present model were developed further to incorporate other “regulatory mechanisms” to assess with greater accuracy these and similar signalling mechanisms that lie beyond the reach of current technologies. "3. Some assumptions contradict well-established concepts due to a lack of consideration of lysosome biology. In explaining the shoulder Ca 2+ signal (Figure 1), the authors introduced up to four assumptions and calculated that ~60-100 lysosomes were needed to generate this shoulder peak." In constructing quantitative (computational) models, and particularly with respect to those that are applied to systems beyond the resolution of current technologies, one is necessarily required to make justified assumptions. All assumptions made are both appropriate and plausible, and are justified by reference to the literature. "They verified these lysosome numbers with their TEM images that “can expect a total of about 110 lysosomes/cell”. Considering these two calculations however, it is obviously problematic because almost all lysosomes (100 out of 110 each cell) will need to functionally contribute to the L-SR junctional structure formation." This is a biased reading of our findings, in that we suggest that a range of 60 to 100 lysosomes would have to contribute to the shoulder magnitude, under our model’s conditions, not exactly 100. "In addition, TEM measurements showed the lysosome dimensions (Table 1) to be major axis of 398 91 nm and minor axis of 325 65 nm. Given the L-SR junction model features “junctional membrane separation and extension are about 15 nm and 300 nm”, it could be postulated that all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension." This reviewer’s postulate forcing the lysosomes to “align well” does not emerge naturally from our model. Would this reviewer explain what relationship between the size of the observed lysosomes (major and minor axes) and the portion of the lysosomal surface participating in the L-SR junction suggests that “all the lysosomes that participated in L-SR structure formation also have to align well with the SR in order to produce a 300 nm junctional extension”? This is most unclear from this reviewer’s comments. It is instead clear upon reading the article that nothing in our model nor in our conclusions depends on such postulate. "Therefore, this L-SR model actually describes a scenario whereby in PASMCs the majority of lysosomes act as the components of L-SR junctions and uniformly have impeccable arrangements to oppose the SR at 20 nm apart." This last sentence is a conclusion that this reviewer makes and stems directly from this reviewer’s postulate—which I must re-emphasize we do not make—and not from our model. "However, this idealistic model largely contradicts the well-established concepts that lysosomes are active organelles that dynamically exert their different functions by their movements and other activities." The contradiction arises from this reviewer postulated interpretation of our findings. We certainly don’t claim anything that goes against the established observations of lysosmal mobility. "4. TPCs as lysosomal Ca2+ release channels are questionable. In quantifying the L-SR model, the authors arbitrarily assumed TPC2 as the only lysosomal NADDP-activated Ca2+ channel by totally disregarding recent findings that TPC2 is not a lysosomal NAADP-associated Ca2+ channel, but a Na+ channel6, 7 . They also ignored the contribution of other lysosomal channels or transporters that may contribute to such L-SR junction activity. This prejudice in channel selection inevitably invites doubts on the reliability of this proposed L-SR model." The authors used a minimal model to examine junctional communication at the L-SR nanjunction. The designation of TPC2 was supported by the fact that TPC2: (1) Is primarily targeted to lysosomes; (2) Is required to support NAAD-dependent calcium signalling; (3) Has been shown to be permeable to calcium by at least two previous studies. Controversy in the field is not ignored, as the authors cite articles that provide detailed coverage on disputes relating to TPC2 calcium permeability. That there is conflict in the field does not negate the use of data derived from papers that demonstrate calcium permeability of these channels. "In addition, the authors collectively adopted electrophysiological data from other research groups without taking into consideration any incompatibilities with the model. For example, in obtaining the total number of TPC2 channels on a lysosome, the authors “…dividing the macroscopic whole lysosome conductance, calculated from the current values reported in a recent study on TPC2-mediated Ca2+ current in isolated lysosomes (48) 8, by the single channel conductances(45) 9, thus estimating that a typical lysosomal membrane may contain ~20 TPC2”. Unfortunately, the lysosomes used in the whole lysosome conductance recording were not normal lysosomes, but lysosomes manipulated by overexpression of TPC2 and were undergoing size enlargement. With these changes, the modified lysosomes would have a much higher TPC2 conductance compared with normal lysosomes with a natural biogenesis. It is important to use a TPC2 conductance and other parameters of channels from lysosomes of normal cells without an artificial transgene for such modeling. Otherwise, the modeling prediction will be inaccurate and the relevance of such a model will be vague." The authors used the best evidence available in support of the present model. At no point was it stated that values used were anything more than estimates derived by best practice from cited and peer reviewed research publications by others. Assuming something other than that which can be derived falls in to the realm of unjustifiable assumption. With present information, assuming a higher TPC2 conductance would be just that. "In conclusion; aside from the issue that the current L-SR nanojunction model fails to contribute any new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture, my concerns over the reliability of data and modelling parameters are rather serious – this work is therefore ‘Not Approved’ in its current version." We think that, within the limits of the available techniques and knowledge, our work not only contributes "new insights to our understanding of the L-SR architecture", but also a novel approach to the study of nanojunctional signals. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Tepikin A. Reviewer Report For: Cytoplasmic nanojunctions between lysosomes and sarcoplasmic reticulum are required for specific calcium signaling [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :93 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.3986.r4843 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-93/v1#referee-response-4843 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 18 Jun 2014 Alexei Tepikin , Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.3986.r4843 This is certainly an interesting study. The characterisation of lysosomal-SR junctions is novel and conceptually important. The data look convincing but I would recommend the authors to further expand the structural part of the study. It would perhaps be useful ... Continue reading READ ALL 