Plasmid DNA molecules have been determined by researchers to be circular, double stranded helical structures. In this work, however, the author claims plasmid DNA molecules follow a non-helical model, supported by experimental results that showed alkali-denatured plasmid DNA is not intertwined but separated. The author further showed separated single stranded plasmid DNA renatured to form native plasmid DNA at neutral pH that could transform E. coli bacteria. This article challenges the helical DNA model of plasmid DNA accepted by the mainstream scientific community. However, the claim that plasmid DNA is not intertwined cannot be supported by the experimental results presented and the logic in the article is flawed. The agarose gel electrophoresis was the only method used to show separation of plasmid DNA strands. Figures in the article showed that alkali-denature plasmid DNA resulted in a band of higher mobility, which could only be digested by S1 nuclease that degraded single stranded DNA. However, the appearance of a higher-mobility band could not prove that the two single strands of were separated and not intertwined. It was totally possible that the denatured DNA strands did not form helices but still had a part intertwined to each other to keep them from separating. Such intertwined DNA could also be digested by S1 nuclease but not Hind III or exonuclease. Furthermore, since the two strands might not be separated, they could easily re-hybridize to form native plasmid DNA in the neutralized pH. Thus, the author’s claim that the two strands of the plasmid were separated was untenable. The helical structure of plasmid DNA has been supported by many studies, some of which also used denatured plasmid DNA and presented results directed contradicted to the claims of this article. JiaYu et al. showed alkali-denatured plasmid could either remain supercoiled double-stranded or became single-stranded but not separated with atomic force microscopy, both of which showed increased mobility in agarose gel. Lifeng Yan and Hiroshi Iwasaki 1 showed similar structures with AFM after thermal denaturation. The phenomenon that the two strands of plasmid DNA could not be separated under denaturing conditions has been demonstrated with electron microscopy and other techniques decades ago 2 . 3 4 The author should comment on those papers in this article when proposing a contradicting model. 