The manuscript by Wild and colleagues analyzes the mode of transport of herpes virus by using morphological techniques. The main result is that virions are intraluminally transported from the PNS –ER to Golgi cisterna via direct continuities. The topic is very interesting and the authors show nice images. However, in my opinion, the results are over interpreted. Many of the conclusions cannot be obtained without more specific techniques such as immunoelectron microscopy and electron tomography. Thus, the interest of the paper is limited. Major criticisms and some minor points: First, the manuscript is difficult to read and hard to understand for not specialists, although Figure 11 helps a lot. It is also difficult to understand the aim of the work in the Introduction section and what it is really new. Thus, I strongly recommend to authors to clarify these points and simplify the text. Title and text. It is confusing the term “endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi transitions”. The term transition is ambiguous and could also be used for vesicular transport. In order to clarify it is better to use the terms connections or direct continuities. The abbreviation PNS should be specified the first time in text (introduction section, second paragraph) Results. 1 st paragraph. The title of the paragraph is not informative. It is well known that “the Golgi complex is a tightly packed entity situated close to the nucleus” Results and Figure 1. Note that TGN46 is a marker of the TGN46 rather than trans-Golgi (Prescott et al Eur J Cell Biol. 1997 72:238-46). This point may be important for interpreting the confocal experiments. I don’t see big differences between the size of the Golgi complex in Figures 1B and 1C. Perhaps, it should interesting to show more cells (or quantitative analysis). Results and Figures 2 and 3. It could be interesting to show the Golgi complexes of control cells in order to compare how infection affects its morphology. Moreover, the use of immunocytochemycal techniques with Golgi markers will help to interpret your results. For instance, this methodology can confirm that the outer-most cisterna is, in fact, the cis-most cisterna. It is very surprising that this membrane is unusually “smooth” with very few fenestrations. Did you see in these 3D images connections of this membrane with the ER? Is it possible that these Golgi are autophagosomes? Results and Figure 4. How do you known that the membrane showed in Figure 4A (and 5B) is a Golgi cisterna? It is hard to believe without immnuoelectron microscopy. In fact, it could be just a ribosome-free region of ER. It is hard to believe from these pictures that “ER membranes continue into Golgi membranes”. The relationship between ER and Golgi membranes showed in Figures 4C and 4D is not different than the describe for most cell types, even the stack looks very “normal”. Results and Figure 5D. Are you sure that these membranes are ER? So that, why are they so different than those showed in figure 5E? Is it possible that these structures are the same than the vacuoles showed in Figure 9A? Figures 8A-C. These figures are very interesting but again, without immunocytochemistry and 3D analysis is difficult to interpret. It should be noted that, in addition to direct continuities, the existence of indirect transport by large transport intermediates cannot be excluded. Figure 8D (and 12) is very nice but “is already published”. For me (I don’t know for the journal) it does not have any sense to include published images Text and Figure 9A. Why do you think that these structures are cisterna rather than vacuoles? For me, it is evident that these membranes are not cisterna. In fact Golgi cisternae look quite normal although they show a few distensions. Again, are you sure than Figure 9C is a Golgi cisterna? Figure 10 and the last paragraph of the result section. These figures are absolutely unnecessary. The relationship between the ER and the cis and trans cisternae it is well known many decades ago. 