Dunham et al. present a method to identify significant cell specific enrichments in regulatory regions for sets of SNPs. Results come with useful graphics. Major comment: Multiple testing is only controlled for across tissues and not across samples. Hierarchical clustering used to justify this but results are not given. I think these results would be useful. In light of this the authors should be more transparent about the expected false positive rate. In relation to figure 1, for 299 samples at the most stringent p-value (4x10 -4 ) you would expect 1 sample to be designated significant just by chance in every two SNP sets tested. Given the empirically derived false positive rate of 0.5% per sample you would expect between one and two samples to be significant for each SNP set. Results would be similar in the case of those plotted in table 1 hence many would be likely to be false positives. When 260 SNP sets are analyzed further correction is required. Minor comments: It is not completely clear at what point the pruning was undertaken. In Methods: GWAS SNP data: it says only SNP sets with 5 non-redundant SNPs were retained, but it listed pruning as a further step. Perhaps non-redundant refers to replicate SNPs but this needs to be clarified. In Results: Gallery of Examples: results with 5 SNPs per set after LD pruning are discussed. There is some unnecessary repetition. For example the details in Methods: Background SNP parameters are repeated in too much detail in the results. Presumably Table 1 refers to both Roadmap and Encode data whereas figure 1 is only Roadmap. It would be helpful to clarify for table 1. The statement in the Methods: FORGE analysis section The corrected thresholds are therefore more stringent than established by the random trials is out of place as the random trials have not yet been explained. Furthermore it should be made clear that it is a false positive rate per sample and not per SNP set across all samples. In the Results: FORGE analysis procedure the enrichments identified greater than the threshold are considered positive, in the discussion points above the threshold are considered non-significant. This likely comes from using both the raw threshold and the -log10 of the threshold but should be clarified. 