In this article, Sok-Ja Janket et al. present several hypothetical cases that resemble real-life situations and pertain to ethical challenges that researchers deal with on frequent basis primarily at the mentor-mentee level. The authors are experienced researchers with significant training record. Thus, both their experience and academic caliber render them suitable to offer unbiased and objective point of view on such an important matter. Here are my suggestions that may improve the content of the article: The use of single letters as hypothetical names is somewhat confusing, especially because multiple exams are listed in the text. Instead of using Researcher Dr. A, it would be easier to process designations such as Dr. Mentor, Dr. Postdoc, Ms. Student etc. Although it is understandable that not all paradigms can be included in the article, it would be important to add one more scenario on "Ethics in assigning leadership positions to junior faculty" e.g. The Society of Research is creating an Early Career Committee to address aspects that pertain to junior faculty. The leadership of the Society of Research has to nominate junior members to operate the ECC. Dr. Past Trainee, who had pursued his post-doctoral training with the President of the Society of Research is selected instead of Dr. Award, who received last year's Outstanding Junior Faculty Award... [CONTINUE] The article would have been even more meaningful if the authors devoted a section on certain and clearly described suggestions about institutional action that needs to be taken. The section should go beyond description of principles and include even some examples of action that has been taken by leadership to serve ethical standards and the authors may be aware of. I am not positive of the suggestion that research proposals should be reviewed in the light of potential for improvement of human health. Various research findings, such as siRNA that was discovered in plants 1 were translated to health-related applications long time after their discovery, which might not even imply translatability. MINOR: p.6; Typo in Episode 2: Replace "had proved" with "had proven" 