 Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. The manuscript describes a single case report of the use of a video laryngoscope (King Vision non-channeled blade) to facilitate successful endobronchial intubation with a double lumen tube in an obese patients with respiratory comorbidity. The manuscript then discusses the characteristics of this particular videolayngoscope which the authors feel may lead to an improvement in success. This case report is well written and adequately describes this challenging clinical scenario and airway management. Technical issues: There is no documentation of attempt to perform bag-mask ventilation during the case. There is no discussion of why this was not attempted or of its importance in the overall airway management of this patient. My view is the ability to perform adequate bag mask ventilation may improve the patients oxygenation and safety during the intubation attempts; especially it they were less straightforward than that described in this manuscript. There was no attempt at direct laryngoscopy recorded. The actual difficulty of this patients airway remains unknown (e.g. she may have been easily ventilated with a bag mask and a grade I view at laryngoscopy with good positioning). She remains at higher risk of difficulty but the reality remains unknown. Content issues: I think the manuscript would benefit from a description of the other option of intubating a patient with a true difficult airway and significant pulmonary compromise: i.e. place a single lumen tube to improve oxygenation and ventilation, then exchange over an airway exchange catheter (Cook). I think the comment on fluid choice is unnecessary. Consider removing the phrase Channeled VLs have many advantages over those with angulated blades, such as the GlideScope - not true, and not referenced as so. Perhaps better described as different advantages and limitations Consider removing the phrase Previous studies..more effective for DLT - the references do not back up the link between an improved view and potential successful intubation. This comment can falsely reinforce the idea that view (on VL) equates to success. I appreciate their relatively conservative summary statement at the articles conclusion - and the series of steps to achieve successful intubation. 