This article provides a clear summary of how the team's prognostic model was created. Biomedical prognostic models are frequently built with survival data, but in practice often do not fully address or utilize the complexity of the data (e.g. dichotomizing the time-to-event outcome out of convenience rather than scientific motivation), so it was encouraging to read about a method thoughtfully developed for survival data, and a competition that embraces performance measures tailored for survival data. We have no major comments but will provide some minor comments for the authors' consideration. Other methods The authors' method involves an initial iterative imputation method that is attractive in that it opens up a richer suite of continuous outcome models for use with the completed data. However, as the authors mention in their discussion, the theoretical aspects of this imputation procedure are unclear. To that end, we are curious if the authors considered existing methods that try to formally account for censoring while retaining loss functions that reduce to "typical" loss functions when censoring is absent (e.g. mean-squared error). For example, Steingrimsson et al (2016) 1 and Molinaro et al (2004) 2 study random forest models with loss functions that 1) can accommodate censored outcomes; and 2) reduce to squared error loss when censoring is absent. Covariate imputation The authors provided a useful graphic summarizing the covariate missingness. Given that there was a nontrivial amount of missingness, a sensitivity analysis might be helpful to ensure that the results are not qualitatively different when perturbing certain aspects of the imputation procedure. Alternatively, for each of the most salient predictors, examining what proportion of observations is missing for that variable may also be useful. Requests for clarification The authors mentioned that three datasets were used for training (ASCENT-2, MAINSAIL, and VENICE) and a fourth dataset was used for scoring (ENTHUSE-33). However, in the "data cleaning" section and the "super learner" section there is also reference to five different datasets. It was unclear how to reconcile the two descriptions. In Step I of the Methods section, how do you calculate iAUC in the initial cross-validation step to determine \alpha, where no covariates are used? Don't you need a score - presumably derived from the covariates - to calculate iAUC? Choice of iAUC and other performance measures by the DREAM challenge organizers We commend the competition organizers for embracing prognostic performance measures that are specifically tailored for survival data, such as the concordance index and cumulative AUC. However, we are puzzled by the decision to use iAUC as the primary performance measure. iAUC is not a standard performance measure and, to our knowledge, is not documented in the literature. While this would not necessarily preclude iAUC from being used as the primary performance measure, it would be helpful to understand the justification for its choice. There does not appear to be an immediately obvious interpretation for iAUC. According to the DREAM website, iAUC is the average of the different cumulative AUC values over all times t. While the cumulative AUC for a single t is easily interpretable, it is unclear what the interpretive value of iAUC is. Note that Heagerty and Zheng (2005; Section 2.2.1) 3 state: "[Cumulative AUC is] most appropriate when a specific time t' (or a small collection of times t'_1, t'_2, ..., t'_m) is important and scientific interest lies in discriminating between subjects who die prior to a given time t' and those that survive beyond t'." If one were unable to choose a specific time or small collection of times, the concordance index offers a reasonable "global in time" alternative. Incidentally, Heagerty and Zheng (2005; Section 2.4) 3 note that when the incident/dynamic AUC (related to but different than the cumulative AUC) is averaged over time (and subject to a specific time-weighting), the result is the concordance index. Typos Section 3, Paragraph 1, Sentence 2: "winning" is misspelled. Section 4.4, Sentence 4: "...included as a covariate..." Section 4.2, last sentence: "...overall in accuracy and were not..." References 1. Steingrimsson JA, Diao L, Molinaro AM, Strawderman RL: Doubly robust survival trees. Stat Med . 2016; 35 (20): 3595-612 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Molinaro A, Dudoit S, van der Laan M: Tree-based multivariate regression and density estimation with right-censored data. Journal of Multivariate Analysis . 2004; 90 (1): 154-177 Publisher Full Text 3. Heagerty PJ, Zheng Y: Survival model predictive accuracy and ROC curves. Biometrics . 2005; 61 (1): 92-105 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Liang CJ and Gu W. Reviewer Report For: Predicting survival time for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer: An iterative imputation approach [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2672 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9282.r19040 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2672/v1#referee-response-19040 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Zhu R. Reviewer Report For: Predicting survival time for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer: An iterative imputation approach [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2672 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9282.r18892 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2672/v1#referee-response-18892 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 09 Jan 2017 Ruoqing Zhu , Department of Statistics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Champaign, IL, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9282.r18892 The paper is nicely written, and the method is clearly described. I have only one comment regarding the initial imputation step: why an exponential distribution was chosen? Does that affect the results? Can the authors provide a ... Continue reading READ ALL 