The presented research note addresses the effect of temperature on melanin pigment of wing chromatophores of S. americana by manipulating radiant heat. Despite the results found being in accordance with previous studies, there are a number of issues with the methods and results that need to be clarified. I present more specific comments, as follows: Introduction: It would be helpful to have more information about the ecology and distribution of S. americana , to enrich the introduction and to correlate with the conclusions. Methods: Housing of specimens: "first terrarium used for the collection of specimens in the (_) and the others…" – I think you wanted to state “the first terrarium used for the collection of specimens in the field”, if this is right and since the specimens were collected by hand, I understand that this first terrarium was used for carrying the specimens from the field to laboratory. Thermal transition: Not clear why, if thermal transition ranged from 45 to 5C, the temperatures tested did not include the ranges from 20 to 10 and instead went directly from 25 to 5C. Since the distribution of S. americana includes places where the temperature occurs in the range that is missing, testing these temperatures could complete the overview of thermal effects from the whole 45 to 5C range. Otherwise, please clarify and state your reasons. If temperature is induced by manipulating radiant heat to reach the range 45 to 25C, why did you use dry ice to induce the 5C temperature? The methodology used in the laboratory should be homogeneous, otherwise it can increase variability in results. Data collection: How many wings were analyzed for each treatment? The number should be stated here, it seems that only one wing was analyzed for each treatment. Results and Discussions: The statement “the majority of the studies that examine the thermal melanism have focused on species with very distinct color morphs representing a wide range in melanism” (third paragraph, line 7-9). Is taken almost exactly as is stated by Harris et al. (2013 1 ) (reference #3 in your manuscript) in their conclusions. A discussion about how the negative correlation between temperature and pigmentation that you have found, relates with the adaptation to the environment where S. americana lives. 