This paper by Sydykova et al. is written in tutorial style, with the aim of demonstrating how to use a series of software tools to calculate site-specific rates of evolution in proteins and protein-coding sequences. In brief, the user starts with a molecular sequence alignment as input data, and then proceeds to estimate a phylogenetic tree, site-specific evolutionary rates, and other statistics related to protein structure and evolution. The things I look for in a good tutorial are clarity and brevity. This manuscript achieves both. Brevity is important as, in my opinion, a tutorial user should not be bogged down with lengthy discussions of theory, caveats, comparisons to other methods, etc. However, what I do expect from a good tutorial is a set of key sentences pointing out to the user where to find the appropriate theory papers, simulation studies, and work by others that may have developed similar methods. I have the following recommendations: Perhaps at the beginning of the protocol section, the authors could clearly state to the user what level of knowledge is expected from them. Does the user need to know how to use the command line? R? Must they have some basic experience of using phylogenetic software? This is important, specially in this case, where the user base may come from a very mixed background (physical sciences, computer science, chemistry or biology). The authors may consider adding a section at the end of the paper with general recommendation for this type of analysis, and where they point the user towards additional literature methods. By putting this section at the end, the user is not bogged down with this information in the middle of the tutorial. For example, Yu Xia recommends mentioning the ConSurf server. This appears a reasonable request. I think the authors should also consider mentioning here other related methods, as this will be useful information to the user. For example, the works by Rodrigue et al . 1 - 2 and Tamuri et al . 3 could be mentioned in reference to population genetic ways to measure site-specific rates and dN/dS. It may also be desirable to cite some of the more modern theoretical works on this, for example Halpern and Bruno 4 , Jones et al . 5 , etc. These are just suggestions. Similarly, Ugo Bastolla suggests adding some mention of what the results would like under other software, for example, in comparison with Rate4site. Although an extensive analysis of this topic may seen out of the scope of the tutorial, I think a set of references from the literature would be in order. Finally, I think the tutorial would benefit with the inclusion of a few additional figures. For example, the authors may want to consider adding a histogram of dN/dS vs. protein site, and perhaps also add screenshots of key program outputs. A well-illustrated tutorial is more appealing to students. Screenshots of program output are essential as it allows the user to check whether they are indeed obtaining the correct results. Perhaps also include tables summarising result values for key parameters. 