In this study, the authors seek to determine the effectiveness of utilizing an IDP during the training stage of a biomedical career. Using survey data from a larger online study of overall health and well-being, 183 trainees responded to questions regarding the IDP using the Likert scale. While 45.4% of the respondents were required to complete an IDP, in total, 54.1% completed an IDP (with or without their mentor’s support). Only of third of those who completed the IDP, however, found the tool useful for career development. Most notably, the authors found positive correlation between positive mentoring and the effectiveness of utilizing an IDP. Overall, this is a well written manuscript addressing an important topic in the training community. However, there are several points that this reviewer found to be confusing. First, the authors state that 54.1% of respondents completed an IDP, however, based on the data in Figure 1 and Supplementary File 2, 112 respondents (61%) of respondents completed an IDP. Further, in Figure 2, the authors are basing their conclusions on 99 respondents. While this is 54% of the 183 respondents, it is unclear why the total of 99 was used as opposed to the 112. Second, the authors state that 38.4% of respondents who completed an IDP found the tool to be useful to their career development and reference Supplementary File 3. Yet, upon closer inspection, a question about IDP usefulness is missing from that document altogether. Thus, it is unclear where that percentage was derived. The data in Supplemental File 2 shows that 22.4% of the total population found the tool effective, however, that is reflective of the total population, and not those who completed the IDP. Taking those findings into consideration, the percentage of those who utilized the IDP and found it effective is 36.6%. Lastly, it is unclear how Figure 2 is an analysis of IDP effectiveness. To the authors credit, it is noted that effectiveness is subjective and the IDP structure can be a confounding factor. However, the questions in Figure 2 are more indicative of mentor effectiveness, and not that of the IDP. It is important to note that the respondents who have positive relationships with their mentors seem to be better prepared, but only half of those find the IDP effective. 