 Major In Otto TD et.al., (2010), it was reported that 4871 transcripts were found expressed during the erythrocytic stages. However, in this study only 2000 filtered genes were considered for clustering. Why this difference between the studies? In other words, the possible reason behind the normalization strategy adopted, which has resulted in the filtering out of so many genes. This should be discussed in results section. Lees K et.al., (2006) suggested that this method could produce biologically meaningful information if applied to different datasets. I feel that applying this method to different P. falciparum expression datasets would further validate the present study. In the discussion part, limitations of this study should be discussed. If the comparison is not possible, please mention limitations of this approach. Minor The study reported here deals with RNASeq data, any mentioning about microarray technology should be removed wherever necessary. For instance, in Material and Methods under Data Preprocessing section the sentence “Normalization removes static variations in the microarray experiment”. Discuss in relation to RNASeq data. Also in Material and Methods first discuss about the study from which RNASeq data was obtained and then discuss further steps used in the present study. Mention “Illumina based RNA sequencing technology”. In Introduction and Abstract section there is no mentioning of RNASeq technology but microarray technology was briefly discussed. Both microarray and RNASeq technologies have been utilized in malaria research community and had helped to understand the biology of malaria parasites. Application of RNA Seq technology in P. falciparum along with results obtained should be discussed very briefly in Introduction section. In Table 1, What about the LR and LRT values for the cluster number 2? In Results and discussion section briefly discuss about number of genes considered initially and how many genes were filtered out in pre-processing steps. Finally come down to the number that’s been considered for clustering. Please check the legends to the “functional enrichment of clusters” figures. Pg10 of 19 “can deduce “should be changed to “hypothesize” pending further experimental validation. Supplementary data Brief explanation of supplementary data supplied should be mentioned. For instance the type of normalization applied and what does rows and columns signify. Provide the gene symbol instead only the row number. Also in similar way explain for the discretized data. Why only 5174 rows present in this data? Provide this data with gene symbol with the time points.