This is a retrospective cohort review of professional AFL collision athletes undergoing clavicle fracture internal fixation. The authors report very early return to play before the progression to osseous union. The authors include 14 patients. However 2 patients (13 14) have not yet returned to play. If these patients are to be included in the series and explanation of the lack of return to either training or play must be included. If this information is not available they should be excluded from analysis. The authors identify that the majority (80%) were able to return to training at 4-6 weeks without complications. However 20% suffered plate damage. This is an avoidable complication such that 1 patient in the series required reoperation. This patient (12) did not return to play for 28 weeks, far longer than would have been necessary. Little detail is provided as to what happened after return to training/play in the groups. I doubt that this information is available but it is highly likely that those patients who had plate failure did so because of greater impacts that those who did not. Returning to training in the early phase is likely to be safe if you can avoid heavy impact on the shoulder until union has occurred. This is likely to be influenced by the position of the player (known) and the frequency of collisions (unknown). The authors have documented that the bent plates were managed conservatively in patients 8 and 14. How long were they kept out of play for after the bending occurred? This is important as it would highlight the implications of the reinjury on end return to play time. From the data patient 14 has not yet returned to play, 12 took 28.5 weeks. Patient 8 returned to play at 6 weeks but we do not know when the plate bent and whether he required a further period of rest after the initial return to play. Whilst the authors conclude that this study shows that early return to play is possible, it shows the high rate of significant avoidable harm that this approach entails. These risks may be taken on by the patient after appropriate education but the authors cannot conclude (as in the discussion) that early return to play had no adverse effects on performance. It should be stated clearly that if plate failure does occur then overall return to play is significantly longer. 