The manuscript by Kors et al. explores the role of the nod-like receptor X1 (NLRX1) during urinary tract infection (UTI). Given the intracellular populations during UTI, the potential role of intracellular immune regulators could be important and the investigations are understudied, making the work significant. Better understanding of the immune modulators could lead to new approaches to treat UTI. The investigators use a knock out mouse to evaluate the bacterial burden in the urinary tissues as well as the immune responses. In addition, the investigators evaluate the efficacy of phagocytosis of E. coli by granulocytes and macrophages. There are alternative conclusions that are more consistent with the published literature and better explain the data than the those provided by the investigators. The analysis of the circulating immune cells was important to exclude potential confounding differences in overall immune capacity. Major concerns: The use of 10 e8 as the inoculum is known to induce early exfoliation of the superficial bladder epithelial cells in C57Bl/6 mice (at about 16 hours), and most groups use a lower inoculum to evaluate the acute phase of UTI. The bacterial burden observed in the wild type at 24 hours is consistent with prior studies that the early exfoliation leads to establishment of a quiescent intracellular reservoir between 10e3 and 10e4. The similarity of this burden at 48 hours further supports this conclusion. In this scenario, the conclusion for the NLRX1 studies would be that the exfoliation is delayed. This would be a very interesting observation given that our understanding of the host responses that modulate exfoliation in response to infection is incomplete. Microscopic studies need to be performed to evaluate the exfoliation status to draw conclusions. Please provide the limit of detection on the graphs for the bacterial burden. The immune response is known to induce morphological changes in UPEC that will reduce the CFU recovered. The loss of NLDX1 could alter these changes and an apparent increase in CFU could be observed, but the bacterial biomass could be similar. Given the bacterial burden of the parent, the conclusion proposed in point 1 is favored. Microscopic analysis would distinguish between these conclusions. In the discussion, the statement that begins “In fact, NLRX1 KO mice are able to clear E. coli faster….” Is not consistent with what is known about the infection. Earlier time points (6 or 16 hours) would certainly reveal that there is a higher burden of UPEC in the WT and as such, the opposite conclusion would be made. It is highly unlikely that the burden in the WT mice would start at 10 e3 and remain there throughout the course of infection. Even if this were the case, the above conclusion would still not be supported since the burden is lower in WT mice at 24 hours. Inclusion of an earlier time point is needed. Although statistically significant, IL-6 changes are modest and are observed at the later stages of the acute infection. There are multiple studies that have quantified IL-6 and correlated the effect of changes in IL-6 on the infection outcome. The results should be presented in context with the published literature. Investigation for the potential role in myeloid cell function is intriguing. However, as the investigators indicated, there are potentially other functions that may be affected. The ability of the phagocytes to kill UPEC would be an interesting test and would provide mechanistic insight into the role of NLDX1 in this system. Please provide power calculations for the immune studies, why were fewer mice included in this portion of the study? Was the burden determined for these mice? The dataset for the FACs analyses were not included (the cytokine data was uploaded twice). Please provide an example of the gating strategy Minor concerns: In the methods for the animal experiments “human” should be “humane”. 