 Introduction P.2, Line 21: Not sure I would agree with ‘body predicting moments ahead of time’ as this suggests understanding – try ‘reacting ahead of time’ or simply ‘physiological changes ahead…’ P.2: Para 2: the authors note that two paradigms were used, presentation of arousing/neutral stimuli or guessing tasks. Were any clear differences in PAA effects reported between these tasks? Also, given the ‘broad range of physiological measures’ used to assess such changes were there any key differences here? P.2, Para 2, final sentence: the ‘evidence from mainstream research’ – what specifically does this refer to? Behavioural effects? Ie changes in accuracy and/or response times and if so could do with a clear reference. P. 2, Para 3, line 9: ‘forwarded’ doesn’t make sense. Do you mean ‘proposed as a potential framework/theory’? P. 2, Para 3: Not sure I’d agree that using physiological markers to ‘predict’ future events is a ‘second objective’ measure. It is simply another way to view the same procedure. P. 2, Para 3: the vague references to ‘presentiment piggybacking onto mainstream research’ needs clarifying and supporting with references. Methods P.2, Para 1: need to identify the acronym ‘PRISMA’ after it is outlined. P. 2, Para 3, line 3: change ‘were’ to ‘where’ ……………….., line 4: change ‘Differently’ to ‘In addition,’ Also, what is the rationale for utilising a distinct eligibility criterion? It seems that prior research focused on testing for a pre-stim signal that would match the post-stim presentation. By not using this method you open yourself up to the criticism of widening the scope and also of looking for ‘any physiological change’ as opposed to one that would be specifically linked to the presentation of the target. The authors claim this is ‘more comprehensive’ but it could just as easily be seen as less conservative. P.3, line 4: change to ‘this type of investigation’ Line 8: change ‘investigations’ to ‘research’. Line 8: The point about studies possibly ‘missed’ by Mossbridge et al is not clear. What makes you think any studies were ‘missed’ and why did you then include the same time period – ie from 2008 to 2010 – if you are ‘adding’ to the data it would make sense to begin your inclusion time from 2010 unless you have evidence that some studies were ‘missed’? P.3, Para 4: line 1: change ‘were studies were’ to ‘were studies where’ P.3 – is it possible to say a bit more about why some authors did not agree to share their data – looks distinctly odd. P.4, Para 6: sentence referring to ‘Assink’ doesn’t make sense – unless you move the ref out of parenthesis and into the sentence. P.4: Change ‘The Bayesian’ to ‘A Bayesian’. And pull the sentence with syntax to the same paragraph. P. 4: Change: ‘Even if with our search activity we are quite….’ To ‘The robust search is likely to have reduced the probability of a publication bias occurring. Nevertheless, to test this a statistical estimation was conducted using the Copas selection model, as recommended by Jin et al’ Results Keep tense to past ie peer reviewed not review. It doesn’t make sense to compare data from the current review to Mossbridge et al ‘if’ both sets of data contain the same studies – as this would lead to obvious similarities etc. To an extent this seems to be addressed by the data in Table 3 but not made clearly – ie why not simply state that when X studies were excluded due to Y reasons the overall effect was still significant? I don’t see the moderation results for PeerRev reported here? The reported ‘small difference between the peer reviewed and non-peer reviewed’ is vague and unhelpful. State clearly what was found – ie, are they ‘significantly different’ if not then they are not ‘different’ in any meaningful way. Under ‘Publication bias’ I think para 2, 3 and 4 (which appears on P.6) should be joined as one single paragraph. Discussion This is rather poor and reads like a list of points. There needs to be some discussion here not simply a repetition of the data. Ie – given this effect size how would the authors attempt to account for it? what are the implications of such a finding? Is there any scope for teasing out of the data any factors that may/may not influence the outcome – e.g., a possible relationship between the PAA and the various DV measures used? The point relating to the work of Jolij and Bierman is again vague and unclear. What evidence precisely are you referring to here and how/why is this similar to the ‘psychological research’ [and what does this refer to?] What is the ‘conventional research program’ of Kittenis? How, exactly, does the single trial work of Mossbridge counter QRP? 