The authors present a system, including easy-to-acquire equipment, software and instructions, for counting live, moving and stimulus responsive C. elegans . The authors also demonstrate that human counting vs. Wormscan system counting of animal survival produces similar results that are not significantly different. In addition, the Wormscan system is able to count worm size and live progeny number and these numbers are similar to human scoring. The Wormscan system can be a useful tool for toxicological studies and teaching laboratory experiments. Overall, the authors have outlined methods for setting up the system, addressed its limitations and performed a set of proof of concept experiments that demonstrate the system’s novelty and utility. The Wormscan will make a useful teaching tool for high school and college laboratories or any laboratory looking to setup a simple, high-throughput survival in vivo assay. I have the following questions/suggestions for the authors to consider for revision (in no particular order): In addition to the provided documentation, the authors should consider making a short video tutorial that guides the user step by step in data acquisition and analysis. What may seem or obvious, can sometimes be less so, especially when setting up the system for the first time. Fig 3 - please clarify the age of the animals and add to figure legend. Fig 4 - over what time period were these data collected over? Add to figure legend. Figure 6 - how many adults were used for the progeny assay? What happens at the very end of life/survival when the animals do not move at all but are still alive? How can the Wormscan system distinguish between living vs. dead animals? Please address this tail end of the curve. Or is this point moot because you are always comparing to the moving control group? If so, please clearly state this in your write-up. Also, in this regard, it would be interesting to determine if the Wormscan can pick up whether an animal is dead even when it is not moving on a petri dish by scanning over a longer period of time. In regard to point in #5 above, beyond toxicological studies, do you envision this system for use in aging lifespan studies? Please address in the discussion. Perhaps I missed this - if the scan takes 10 minutes, are the animals exposed to a bright light for the entire duration of the time? Why does it take so long to make a single scan? Is it due to the high resolution necessary for image acquisition? In this regard, I am glad to see that overheating was not a problem, but if the time of the scan and overall stress level could be decreased, perhaps this system could be expanded to other types of experiments e.g. motility scoring? This could be an avenue to explore in the future, and perhaps this point could be addressed in the discussion? Is it possible to make this work with a Mac? Or does that depend on scanner compatibility? As it is clear that you have done a lot of testing of the scanner component of the Wormscan system, perhaps in the discussion, you could address the minimum scanner and PC requirements that are needed to set this up with other scanners beyond those that work on the Windows system? $500 may not seem like a lot for a scanner, but it may still be prohibitive for some researchers and teachers, so a thorough understanding of the requirements of the most expensive piece of the system, the scanner, would be most useful. The required software for Automated WormScan can be downloaded as an easy to install complete software package available at doi, 10.5256/f1000research.10767.d152697 19 I was not able to access this link (it was circular for me and took me back the main page, I tried it from multiple sources). Please clarify in figure legends and/or methods how many times experiments were repeated and how many biological replicates were completed. Consider expanding the first paragraph of or supplying addition citation to your by doing a more thorough review of the technologies currently available for high-throughput image acquisition and phenotyping of C. elegans. For instance, see this review by Kinser and Pincus 2016: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S104474311630046X 