The manuscript by Vicedo and colleagues presents an interesting observation: the authors have examined chromosomal regions (all of chromosome III and fragments of chromosomes IV and XII) that are duplicated in Saccharomyces cerevisiae in response to sudden exposure to high temperature and find that these chromosomal sequences are significantly decreased for genes encoding proteins with long disordered regions. The authors further analyzed these duplicated regions and the encompassed genes for any enrichment in annotated GO terms, as well as for encoded protein positioning in interaction networks. The results do not indicate significant GO term enrichment and reveal that the encoded proteins exhibit a decreased number of interactions per protein. The biological advantage to this duplication remains unclear. Comments/suggestions: The main conclusion presented here is interesting, but as the authors themselves attest, this observation does not explain a biological advantage behind the duplication. On p. 4, the authors state that introducing an extra copy of HSP30 into wild-type yeast does not modify the ability of the cells to cope with high temperature. The inclusion of laboratory data considering the effect of adding an extra copy of genes or chromosomal regions corresponding to some of the duplicated sequences would strengthen the paper significantly. This seems to be the easiest way to address a biological effect from duplication of a given gene. In regards to the analysis, are the observed GO function annotations enriched with respect to other chromosomes/segments as opposed to being enriched against the genome as a whole? If the advantage to the cell centered on the functions associated with the genes in the duplicated regions, then these regions relative to other regions may be enriched for a function. If I’m thinking of this correctly, that would be slightly different than comparing a region for enrichment against the whole genome. Maybe the authors could compare enrichment in one chromosome versus another or utilize a sliding window corresponding to the size of a duplicated fragment to identify regions that would be most enriched for some potentially interesting functions. That might be a more sensitive means of identifying a functional enrichment for the duplicated regions. Typos/stylistic suggestions: on p.2, first line under Introduction: I think it would be sufficient to state “The baker’s yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae ” rather than the text in parentheses. on p. 3, fourth paragraph under “Duplications in response to high temperature reduce protein disorder”: the first sentence in this paragraph (“Assume a certain amount …”) needs to be reworded. on p. 4, first paragraph, line 16: delete “the” from “insignificant the finding” 