EphrinA1 is a cell surface bound protein that has been shown to be tumor suppressive when expressed in cancer cells. In this study, the authors characterize the effects of the microenvironment on mammary tumor progression using variations of the 4T1 mammary tumor model- spontaneous, and experimental metastasis. By injecting 4T1 cells in ephrinA1 knockout mice, they show that ephrinA1 knockout does not affect primary tumor growth and inhibits metastasis and recurrence. The study is generally well written, and the phenotypes are interesting. Comments are described below: The discussion could be better expanded. How do expression of ephrinA1 and corresponding receptors in the stroma of primary tumor vs. lung tissue compare in normal and tumor bearing mice? How do results fit into the bigger picture of what is known about this? Recommend expanding on the discussion of the mechanism regarding ephrinA1 mediated lung metastasis. In particular: a) How might ephrinA1 signaling might affect macrophage function in the lung. b) Please expand on what is known about macrophage polarization, effects on T cells in the lung. How would ephrinA1 signaling affect macrophage function in the formation of pre-metastatic vs. metastatic niche? c) How would ephrinA1 ko affect Eph receptorA1 vs. A2 signaling in the lung stroma? d) Further discussion the clinical implications of the study would be helpful, especially since the tumor suppressive/oncogenic effects of ephrinA1 appear to be cell type dependent. More minor comments: Figure 1A, C, D, Figure 3, Figure 4, Figure 5B-C: Statistics are not consistently shown. Even if data show no statistical significance, it would be helpful to include p- value or indicate n.s to indicate the analysis was done. Figure 4: CO-IF staining is a bit difficult to see. It would be helpful to show magnified insets for clearer details. Figure 5: recommend revising figure legend. From the way the figure legend is stated “ Ephrin-A1-deficient lung microenvironment provides a less favorable metastatic niche ,” I would expect data correlating decreased metastasis with changes in the lung microenvironment of ephinA1 KO mice. However, this is not the case - no changes in endothelial cells were observed. Alternatively, for Figures 3 and 5 - recommend reorganizing some of the data so that the messages are clearer. Figure 3 figure legend indicates that “ Tumor-infiltrating immune populations are not significantly different in ephrin-A1-deficient hosts” However, Figure 3D show increased in macrophage recruitment to lung tissues in ephrinA1 KO mice. This data would be more appropriate in Figure 5, which shows decreased lung metastasis, along with characterization of endothelial cells in the lung. 