 F1000RESEARCH – Submitted by David S. Fedson, MND Yang Z, Bedugnis A, Levinson S, DiNubile M, Stossel T, Li Q, Kobzik L. Delayed administration of recombinant plasma gelsolin improves survival in a murine model of severe influenza. F1000 Research 2019; 8: 1860. Reviewer’s comments This straightforward paper presents the results of a study showing that rhu-pGSN improves survival in a mouse model of influenza. My answers to the mandatory questions above indicate the paper is acceptable and requires no significant modification. The comments below are suggestions and are offered in the hope they might help readers. The authors should feel free to ignore them if they wish. Introduction, page 3, left column, paragraph 2 - The pathogenesis of influenza involves a dysregulated and injurious host response that is not wholly inflammatory. Inflammation is involved to be sure, but there is also a degree of immunosuppression. Some of the changes (e.g., pulmonary endothelial dysfunction) can be regarded as separate from inflammation and/or immunosuppression. The authors argue that rhu-pGSN is “an attractive candidate (for treatment) because it dampens excessive and injurious inflammation and augments antimicrobial defences”. Rhu-pGSN probably does much more. (See Becker PM et al . Pulmonary vascular permeability and ischemic injury in gelsolin-deficient mice. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 2005;28:478-84 1 and earlier Kuhne W et al. Disintegration of cytoskeletal structure of actin filaments in energy-depleted endothelial cells. Am J Physiol 1993;265(5 Pt2):H1599-608 2 .) Page 3, left column, paragraph 4, lines 1-7 - The first 7 lines could be written more tightly. “One of pGSN’s many functions is to dissolve the actin gels that arise from cellular debris, hence its name. These gels form a biofilm that reduces the ability of cellular and humoral defences to gain access to embedded pathogenic organisms. In response, pGSN accumulates at sites of tissue damage. Interaction with actin reduces pGSN’s binding to …” Also, in line 12, delete “final”. This is not the final comment in this paragraph. Page 3, right column, paragraph 1, lines 3-4 - A sentence could be added: “… levels decrease and probability of mortality. For this reason, pGSN levels have been considered as potential biomarkers of severity for several acute and chronic diseases, 7 In addition, as might be predicted, systemic treatment …” (Reference 7 is a remarkably complete review of published studies of gelsolin and should be read by anyone reading this paper.) Page 3, right column, paragraph 2, lines 1-2 - These lines could be rewritten: “Regarding the treatment of the severe pneumonia often seen in fatal influenza, administration of rhu-pGSN …” Results, page 5, right column, paragraph 2, lines 12-15 – These lines could be rewritten: “…The only exception was found in trials 15-19 (Table 1) that tested dose regimens that were initially low (2 mg rhu-pGSN on days 3 to 5/6, then 5 mg daily through day 11). These trials led to weights (compared to day 0) at the …” By including “(compared to day 0)”, it is not entirely clear whether the weights mentioned in lines 16 and 17 (81.4 and 85 g?) are mean weight differences between day 0 and the end of the study in each of the two groups or the mean weight difference between the two groups at the end of the study. I assume it is the former, but the reader would have to check Extended data to be certain. Page 5, paragraph 2, line 19 and paragraph 3, line 2 - What is the difference (if any) between Extended data and Underlying data ? Should Underlying data really be Extended data ? Page 5, paragraph 3, line 5 – This sentence could be rewritten: “… Comparison of lung samples obtained on day 7 from vehicle-treated and rhu-pGSN-treated mice showed …” “Page 5, paragraph 3, lines 10-1 – This sentence could be rewritten: “… Among down-regulated genes in the rhu-pGSN-treated group, many cytokine and immune-related genes were prominent, including IL-10, IL-12b, …” Page 7, left column paragraph 1, line 3 – Do the “main findings” in the analysis of down-regulated genes refer to all down-regulated genes or only the top 50? I assume it is the latter, but this should be made clear to the reader. Page 7, left column, paragraph one, last four lines (and top two lines in the right column) – This is a very long sentence. It’s worth considering a rewrite: “…In worksheets 2-15 in the spreadsheet in Extended data , we present details of the … “ Page 8, right column, paragraph 1, line 2 – It should be “virus stock”, not “viral stock”. The authors should be commended for admitting they can’t explain all of their results. Page 8, right column, paragraph 1- The authors showed rhu-pGSN treatment offered “only a partial (albeit significant) survival benefit”. Among their suggestions for future studies they mention using larger animals and other strains of influenza virus. They overlook the possibility of combining rhu-pGSN with other drug treatments. After all, they showed only a modest increase in survival (roughly 40% in vehicle-treated and 60% in rhu-pGSN-treated mice, respectively). Combination treatment might offer a greater survival benefit. The authors might also emphasize that studies of the effects of gelsolin and treatment with rhu-pGSN on host responses to several infections suggest rhu-pGSN might used in the syndromic treatment of many different infectious diseases. References In addition to the two articles on gelsolin and endothelial dysfunction mentioned earlier, the authors might include their more recently published paper: Self WH, Wunderink RG, DiNubile MJ, Stossel TP, Levinson SL, Williams DJ, et al. Low admission plasma gelsolin concentrations identify community-acquired pneumonia patients at high risk for severe outcomes. Clin Infect Dis 2019; 69 (7):1218-25 3 . Tables and Figures Table 1. Dividing the table into two sections showing results of treatments started on day 3 and day 6 might make it easier for readers to see the important findings. The two sets of findings could be further subdivided into those showing benefit (YES) or not (NO). Figure 1 - The legends within panels A, C, E, and G show pGSH above vehicle, while in panels B, D, F, and H the two legends are reversed. It would be better if a consistent style could be used throughout the figure. If the legends are changed, the authors should use rhu-pGSN, which is what they used in their studies (not pGSN). Figure 2. – It would be helpful to include headings (down-regulated and up-regulated) at the top of the two sets of heat maps. 