This is a very good and up to the standard study that comprehensively investigated the acute and subacute toxicity and antimicrobial effects of the root extract of Fagaropsis hildebrandtii which is a widely used herbal medicine. It has a significant contribution towards the currently increasing search for safe, affordable and effective drugs of plant origin and we approve it. However, we have the following comments which would have been accommodated/explained. These include: How was the starting doses of the extract (as 300 mg/kg for acute and 250 mg/kg for sub-acute) determined. Why was LD50 not determined? When and during what season was the herb collected and the study conducted? The root of the plant is mentioned used traditionally as boiled. However, the investigation was carried out on fresh root extract. Why not the boiled ones same as traditionally used? or do the authors believe heat has no effect on the active ingredients of the plant? What could be the cause for the death of the female mice treated with the extract at the highest does (1000mg/kg body wt)? Why macroscopic and microscopic pathological observations were not done? At what date(s) did the mice die? The description of histopathological observations made on page 10 appears an abridged version of figure legends. There are also statements that do not go along with the figure legends as pointed out below: In Figure 5 micrographs for histopathology of kidney, only 4 pictures are presented. However, in the text, page 10, seven pictures (A-G) are described, and does not go along. In Figure 6 micrographs for histopathology of liver. Picture “A” appears as at a lower magnification as compared to “B-F”, but is indicated as x400 same as others, and what B is meant to indicate is not stated. Picture “C” in the figure legend is stated to show diffuse cloudy swelling (CS) of the hepatocytes, but mentioned as normal same as A B in the text, page 10. We suggest these should be corrected in the text and better be briefly stated in a manner of reporting the observations. 