The authors describe the model they submitted to the recent “Prostate Cancer DREAM Challenge - Sub-Challenge - 1”, which was ranked among the top models in the challenge. In particular, they describe their feature selection process, which they mostly credit for their success in the challenge. The manuscript summarized their approach and the results from the challenge in an adequate manner. However, we have some concerns: Main Critique: Their CAFS feature selection (FS) process seems to related to the wrapper feature selection methods, but includes a human expert in the loop. This greatly reduces the reproducibility of this work. Also, the authors have not clearly listed the guideline followed by the experts when deciding on features, which appears to further reduce the usefulness of this approach in general. Minor Points: The final selected model from the FS process is not explicit from Figure 1B. It would also be better if the authors explicate CAFS’s boundary between expert intervention vs data-driven selection. The basic algorithm embodied several assumptions -- eg, p6 mentions 6 features of PC1. Why 6? Also why just use sum of "protective medical history features"? Why not include harmful features? We think we understand these decisions but the paper would be improved if it better motivated these various decisions. Their approach of combining the ensemble with randomly selected weights seem to introduce instability to the final prediction in different runs. It would be worthwhile to give more details on this step, describing how the proposed method compares with a simple mean (or sum) and listing the motivations for this choice -- and relate this to the claim that equal weights for all models gives the best performance It was great that the authors listed the results from the winning models to give the reader a good idea about the challenge itself. Figure 2A was a well thought-out table, which gives the reader insights in understanding the selected features. The flow diagram in Figure 1A was difficult to process as it does not show a single flow (eg: left-right or top-down). Perhaps it would be improved with a more streamlined flow diagram of the FS process. The authors mention they experimented with other survival prediction models, such as random survival forests and generalized boosted regression models. It would be useful to show results from those models, for a better comparison. The authors have used links to certain web pages in the text. It would be more in line with academic publications if proper citations were used. 