The article by Wang and colleagues addresses the resistance of GPR21 knockout mice to insulin resistance and high-fat diet induced obesity and metabolic dysregulation. Two previous publications using a different GPR21 knockout mouse model generated with ES cells from Deltagen have been previously published: Osborn et al . (2012) JCI 122: 2444-2453; and Gardner et al . (2012) BBRC 418: 1-5. Osborn et al . demonstrated that, at a baseline of 8 weeks, GPR21 KO mice were significantly lighter than their wild-type controls despite similar food intake, and after 11 weeks on normal chow had significantly improved insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance. In addition, GPR21 KO mice fed a 60 kcal% HFD for 12 weeks showed no differences in % weight gained or adiposity on the diet, but maintained a significantly improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Gardner et al . demonstrated that, at baseline of 120 days, GPR21 KO mice were lighter, again despite similar food intake, and after 12 weeks on a 45 kcal% diet, gained significantly less weight and adiposity and maintained better insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance than the wild-type controls. In contrast, Wang and colleagues find no differences in body weight, adiposity, or glucose and insulin tolerance between their GPR21 knockout mice (generated using TALEN technology) and wild-type controls; an important finding they suggest is due to unintentional changes in RabGAP1 gene expression in the original Deltagen GPR21 knockout mice. General Comments: 1) The aim of the current work, as stated in the last paragraph of the introduction, was to show that the effects observed in Osborn and Gardner were not solely due to loss of GPR21. I believe the authors have essentially demonstrated this, and the title of the article is appropriate and reflective of this. Yet, much of the abstract, introduction and results sections focus on RabGAP1 expression. More confirmatory experiments seem necessary to implicate changes in RabGAP1 in the Deltagen GPR21 knockout phenotype (see specific comment 2). 2) As a pure replicative paper, the authors did not directly replicate either of the original HFD studies performed in Osborn or Gardner. The 45 kcal% HFD protocol was closer to that described in Gardner, yet the mice were started on the HFD 6 weeks earlier (presumably at 11 weeks based on figure legends instead of ~17 weeks in Gardner) and continued on the diet 3 weeks longer. The statement in the "Next Steps" should be modified as such. Specific Comments: 1) In the Materials and Methods section, the description of the high-fat diet experiments are not detailed enough. This is important as the high fat diet experiments in the original referenced publications are actually quite different from each other. Furthermore, this would allow other investigators to more easily replicate the diet study. 2) The authors propose that changes in RabGAP1 expression might be responsible for the phenotypes observed in Gardner and Osborn. This conclusion would be stronger with qPCR analysis of the original Deltagen mouse tissues (such as in Figure 3, which was performed for the GPR21 TALEN KO mice) instead of reliance on microarray probe data. In such a case, a direct comparison of RabGAP1 expression could be made between the Deltagen and TALEN GPR21 knockout mice. 3) Hypothalamic GPR21 expression was proposed as responsible for phenotype of mice on normal chow observed in Osborn et al , and GPR21 is highly expressed in the hypothalamus. I would recommend adding this tissue to the panel analyzed by qPCR in Figure 3.