The general framework of the paper seems to be appropriate: 1- Calculate the monetary benefit of birds feeding in almond patches (“free” predation of mummified almonds by birds in lieu of costly human removal); 2- add up the cost of these birds in almond patches (predation of harvest-able almonds by birds); 3- subtract the value of lost harvest-able almonds from the cost of human and/or machine work avoided. If the resulting value is greater than 0 then birds on Australian almond patches are, in net, beneficial to society and not a pest in almond systems (assuming the investigated almond patch is representative of other Australian almond farms). Luck’s main conclusion is that birds are more likely to be a benefit to society and not a pest in aggregate IF 1) they cause the more expensive hand-poling (versus mechanical shaking) of trees to be avoided and 2) we focus on the birds’ impact on the edges of almond plots (in Luck’s experiment birds did not seem to penetrate to the interior of the almond patch). My observations and concerns with the methodology: What about the combination of bird and human control of mummified almonds? What is the optimal level of human input to mummified almond control given the free input provided by birds? For example, could farmers use GPS technology to determine where to best compliment beneficial bird activity? Is there a way to quickly and relatively cheaply determine where bird activity needs to be supported? Up to this point too much of the “ecosystem service on farms” literature has presented animal input as an either/or option (e.g., wild pollinators versus rented hives on animal pollination-limited crops). We need to start looking more and more at the OPTIMAL combination of human and natural input (e.g., farmers making this type of calculation when they decide how much nitrogen fertilizer to add to a field given a map of pre-existing nitrogen levels). How would we go about determining the optimal management of almond farms where birds are explicitly considered to be part of the system? How would the planting of decoy crops for birds on the periphery of the almond farm contribute to optimal management of farms? In the experiment Luck only nets branches and not whole trees. An experiment with whole trees netted would seem to be more appropriate. Luck’s explanation for not netting whole trees needs to be better defended in the text, and the potential issues with branch netting versus whole tree netting on experimental results need to be more fully considered. Luck relies a lot on linear extrapolation. For example, he found “mean nut loss from netted trees was 5.9%...so, if for example, 50 nuts were completely lost from an almond tree, I considered that three nuts (5.9%) were lost due to non-bird factors…” . First, he must mean that 5.9% were lost from the netted branches, not trees, as loss from branches was controlled, not whole trees. Second, is such a simple linear extrapolation from branch loss to tree loss appropriate? Luck thinks so, I am not so sure. I would like to see this issue investigated further. The market price of almonds can vary wildly year to year, just like any crop. Luck only uses market prices from one year to generate his conclusions. He needs to consider a greater range of prices in a sensitivity analysis. Luck needs to give us an idea of the relative use of manual hand-poling versus mechanical shaking of trees on almond farms now and in the future. Do most farmers mechanically shake trees? What is the trend? Is mechanical shaking becoming cheaper and more widespread over time? Information on this trend would seem to affect the direction of study into the impact of birds in the almond system. If mechanical shaking is becoming the norm than birds are likely to be, in net, a pest in the future and the most animal-friendly management of this pest should become the focus of research. Further, what are the future projections for almond prices? This would also affect conclusions on promising future research directions. 