This article describes an intervention carried out in rural Guatemala consisting of comparing standard vector control against an integrated delivery of a) web-based health worker training, b) low-cost ovitraps (“ovillantas”) and c) community engagement. I agree with the other reviews and add the following: The title is quite long. In the introduction make clearer that the modified ovitraps are called “ovillantes” (the photo shows that but not in the introduction). To what extent do the authors think the ovillantes can be replicated in other settings, e.g., urban? Why did the authors choose to work on Aedes aegypti in a rural area, although Aedes aegypti is mainly an urban vector? Would ovillantes be applicable in cities, in Guatemala or elsewhere in Latin America? Pertinent research project in times of arboviral disease epidemics, however, under methods more clearly describe study design and indicators used to measure intervention effectiveness and detail methods, including methods in qualitative research. There is now growing evidence that community interventions can in fact have an impact on the disease incidence and serological parameters (recent publication on Nicaragua), so there is a need for good research and strong evidence on the effect of community interventions. This project did not do that, clearly spelled out in the discussion section, but the methodology section could be strengthened by explaining the analytical (and not only descriptive) elements of the study design. The results suggest that ovillantes are more effective than standard ovitraps by comparing both interventions in different neighborhoods (“study sites”). Clarify whether this is by cluster-randomization or not. Focus groups results are presented to show (positive) impact on social participation but they are not presented by intervention areas so that the effect of the intervention on social participation cannot clearly be attributed. As the article argues, the FGD results “can help guide future strategies geared to strengthen community participation” but they do not fully indicate an impact of the intervention. Also, while referring to the “community” and social participation the article refers to different ethnic groups and certain “communication difficulties”: unclear what this refers to (aren’t all of the communities of Mayan descent? What sub-groups or other ethnic groups is the article referring to?).