The strengths of the manuscript by Issarow et al. include that the article is clearly written, the large majority of the mathematical results appear to be correct to me and the work does build upon previous research. Unfortunately, the main weakness is that the compartmental structure of the model fundamentally does not answer the question that has been posed. The main reason for this is that transition from T to one of either S, L1 or L2 does not only capture a change to the relative immunity status of a person who has completed treatment, but also affects their infection status. That is, S, L1 and L2 also have different rates of endogenous reactivation to I (zero for S), as well as different rates of (re-)infection (zero for L2) and different proportions that progress to active disease immediately on infection. Therefore, the authors are really exploring the idea that treated individuals become fully susceptible and clear their infection (transition to S), behave as for once infected persons (transition to L1) or behave as for multiply infected persons (transition to L2 and remain immune from further infection) - in all respects. Perhaps it may be possible to argue that this is an exploration that is of interest and has a sound basis in epidemiology, but it is not the argument that the authors make and not the question they are seeking to answer. Also, it is unclear which of the multiple epidemiological differences differences between S, L1 and L2 is driving the observations. Further, the reason for persons spending one year in the T compartment is unclear. If T is intended to represent persons under treatment (which is not what the authors argue) then this might be reasonable. However, in this case, the sojourn time in T should probably be six months, the alpha parameter should better represent relapse rates (and so be greater than 1% for Cape Town). Therefore, it is unclear what this state represents, other than that patients are fully immune from reinfection during their stay in T and are waiting to transition to a new susceptibility state. The result for the basic reproductive number is doubtless correct and the method used to obtain it is well accepted. However, the formula can be calculated much more easily by simply taking the product of the number of infections per unit time in I (beta), the duration of time in I (1 / (k + mut + mu)) and the proportion of infections reaching I (which requires a small amount of algebra only). Similarly, stability analysis for the disease free equilibrium seems correct (although the calculations are a little beyond my mathematical ability), but there is no reason to doubt that the disease-free equilibrium would be stable. (Finding a second equilibrium at R0=1 and hence a backward bifurcation might perhaps be of more interest - however, as omega remains 1 throughout the calculations, I do not believe such a phenomenon would be present.) I have suggested reject as a decision for this manuscript, but am on the borderline between reject and major revision. I have also read the other reviewer's comments, which would also strengthen the paper and note her suggestion for a major revision. Therefore, I would be happy to review another version of the manuscript if the editors feel this is appropriate. MINOR COMMENTS Value of k for case detection is set at 0.68/year, but rationale is not described. Presumably this is the 2014 CDR estimate for South Africa. However, CDR is a proportion, so it cannot be simply incorporated into the model as a rate. In the Methods it is stated that susceptible individuals have never been previously infected and L1 compartment individuals have only been infected once - however, this is only true if g=r=0, which is only the case in one configuration that is explored. Therefore these statements are misleading. Prefer high-burden to high-burdened Space between y and r-1 is unclear, should be just yr-1 Definitions of the transmission and transition matrices are unclear and seem incorrect. Prefer lower limit of vertical axis of Figure 3 to be zero. 