This is an interesting testimonial from a group of graduate students at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio. It demonstrates the enthusiasm of the students for the communication of science and for the development of speaking and communication skills, but it provides no credible evidence about the impact of the event on the population of San Antonio or even of the people that attended. Unfortunately, the graduates students' enthusiasm for their science exceeded their knowledge or understanding of educational evaluation or social science. The resulting data do not rise to the level of credible educational evaluation and cannot be used to assert any level of impact on the public. Many physical and life scientists assume that educational evaluation or social science are things that they could learn in a couple of hours and disregard the methods of social science measurement and analysis. Had the students read the relevant literature (or included some education or social science graduate students in their group), they would have recognized that the core of the problem is that about 30% of American adults have obtained a credible level of scientific literacy -- sufficient to read the Tuesday New York Times science section -- and that most of the remaining 70% are attentive to other issues and problems. Many American adults who are not scientifically literate may be very knowledgeable about economic policy, foreign policy, agricultural policy, or other realms of public policy. The issue is that science is not salient to many American adults and science needs to compete in the marketplace for adult time and attention. The first task is not to simply try to talk to people about the science that these graduate students are doing, but to argue why it is important for someone to know about that science or other science. There is a literature covering the last three decades that demonstrates that civic scientific literacy is closely associated with exposure to college level science courses (Miller, 1983, 1987, 1998, 2004, 2010, 2016). In this context, it would have been useful to know whether the San Antonio Science Festival attracted adults who were already scientifically literate, who had been exposed to college level science courses, and who already thought that understanding science is important. Unfortunately, the questionnaire administered to a convenience sample of attendees included only six questions and no educational background questions. The literature on the use of science museums suggests that some adults are drawn to science because they want their children to become scientifically literate or to consider a career in science or engineering. An evaluation rooted in the literature would have asked about whether each attendee had children and whether the children were attending with the adult. And some understanding of this literature could have informed the marketing effort for the fiesta. The 12 graduate students who completed a post-fiesta questionnaire indicated that they felt that they had improved their science communication skills. I have no doubt that presenting scientific ideas and material to a non-scientific audience is a learning experience and I think that events like this are useful for graduate students and for many faculty. This is a beneficial result, but it is not clear whether the same result could have been obtained by sending graduate students to work in a local science museum or center, to speak to PTA groups, or to talk to other community groups. If the rationale for science fiestas and festivals is that they increase public interest in science and foster continuing science-oriented information acquisition activities, this report provides no useful or credible information. A convenience sample may be easier to collect, but it demonstrates an ignorance of why survey research quit using convenience samples 50 years ago. Currently, there is a strong move to address-based national sampling to reflect a probability based sample of respondents. I doubt that these health science graduate students would seriously consider allowing patients to select the arm of a clinical trial that they might prefer. It is important for health scientists and other scientists to recognize that social science methods are important and try to include trained social scientists in the design and evaluation of outreach efforts like the San Antonio Science Fiesta. References 1. Miller J.D.: Scientific literacy: A conceptual and empirical review. Daedalus . 1983; 112 (2): 29-48 Publisher Full Text 2. Miller J.D: Scientific Literacy in the United States. In, Communi­cating Science to the Public, David Evered and Maeve O'Connor (Eds.). London. Wiley . 1987. 19-40 3. Miller J.D.: The measurement of civic scientific literacy. Public understanding of science . 1998; 7 (3): 203-223 4. Miller J.D.: Public understanding of, and attitudes toward, scientific research: What we know and what we need to know. Public Understanding of Science . 2004; 13 (3): 273-294 5. Miller J.D.: The conceptualization and measurement of civic scientific literacy for the twenty-first century. Science and the educated American: A core component of liberal education . 2010; 136 : 241-255 6. Miller J.D.: The Role of Scientific Literacy in Public Support for Science. A report commissioned by the National Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC.2016. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Miller JD. Reviewer Report For: “Science Fiesta!” Combining student-led community outreach with local culture [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2319 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10588.r16842 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2319/v2#referee-response-16842 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 14 Sep 2016 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Clark GB. Reviewer Report For: “Science Fiesta!” Combining student-led community outreach with local culture [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2319 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10297.r16280 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2319/v1#referee-response-16280 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 03 Oct 2016 Greg B. Clark , Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10297.r16280 This manuscript describes a recent science outreach event which was held in San Antonio. The authors provide the results of surveys completed by the public as well as the graduate student scientists that participated in the event. Overall this is ... Continue reading READ ALL 