In the US alone, Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the 6th leading cause of death. Unfortunately there are no clinical biomarkers of AD that could be used to efficiently and successfully diagnose the disease onset, monitor the AD progression, and evaluate the efficiency of therapeutic interventions against AD. According to Alzheimer's association, early and accurate AD diagnosis could save $7.9 trillion in hospital-associated costs. Hence to fill this diagnostic gap, present work aims to identify and validate AD biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) patient samples using mass spectrometry-based targeted proteomics. The manuscript is well written and methods are either sufficiently described and/or appropriate earlier works are cited (particularly for targeted method development and protein quantitation). However I suggest authors should consider submitting the raw MS data to ProteomeXchange if not done already. Targeted proteomics was used to quantify 30 candidate proteins in CSF samples obtained from 101 patients that had mild to severe AD as well as patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In both the sets, 28 severe AD, 40 moderate AD, 19 mild AD, and 14 MCI patient samples were quantified for candidate biomarkers using SRM method. One biomarker candidate of interest neuronal pentraxin receptor-1 (NPTXR), quantified by mass spectrometry and validated in a separate set by ELISA, was found useful in differentiating AD from control samples. Severe AD patients had lower levels of NPTXR in CSF than those in control CSF samples; in contrast, considerable variation in the levels of NPTXR levels in MCI patients was observed. However the rationale behind not segregating samples in 5 groups (control, MCI, mild-, moderate-, and severe-dementia) for ELISA validation is missing and could be added. For the NPTXR validation, authors could have done secondary validation of NPTXR levels in present cohort (large group; n=101) followed by an independent validation in a separate cohort as done in Figure 6 (n=56). Nonetheless this early work on AD biomarker discovery is interesting and a longitudinal study will be helpful in establishing NPTXR as a true biomarker of AD progression and disease severity. 