I have reviewed with interest the manuscript titled “What improvements do Cochrane systematic reviewers suggest for the design of trials? [version 1; peer review: awaiting peer review]”. The authors report a study based on a very elegant idea, analysing content of the “Implications for research” section in selected Cochrane reviews. I would like to suggest the following minor revisions: Title: I would suggest revising in a way to reflect the fact that these recommendations came from Cochrane reviews. When I first read the title, I initially thought that this manuscript reports results of a survey among Cochrane authors. Abstract “Reviews with citations between 2009 and 2019 were identified” – should this be “reviews published between 2009 and 2019”? “We created 22 categories” – I would suggest revising “categories” into “categories of recommendations”. Conclusion: I am not sure that it is sufficient to recommend to trialists to “ask themselves”. The problems that were mentioned (i.e. recommendations) were consistent over the analysed period. I think it would be more meaningful to conclude that we need to analyse the effects of interventions that will force/motivate trialists to change their actions when designing clinical trials. Methods It would be useful to have a section called Data extraction, to describe all the data that were extracted. For example, in the beginning of the Results, the authors have mentioned type of interventions, and number of studies included in analysed reviews, but this was not mentioned as extracted in the Methods. Results Results section is rather short. I would appreciate to read more text in this section, i.e. about categories specific only to each review group analyzed. However, I understand that this is brief report, so I would not insist on this, if this is not feasible for this type of article. In the Discussion, the authors mentioned that some categories were “clearer”, but I am not really sure what this means. I also do not see anything mentioned about that in the Methods, and Results. In the Abstract, the authors wrote “ There was no obvious pattern of improvement over time for trials included in systematic reviews published by both groups”, and in the Results, the authors wrote “However, the use of these five categories varied over time for each group”. Is this supposed to be the same? The expression “varied” is very non-specific. Discussion I would prefer to see this explained in more detail; I am not sure I understand completely what it means: “These were clearer in the Schizophrenia Review Group’s reviews because of their structured approach to presenting implications for research in accordance with published guidance”. What kind of “structured approach” is this? Is this a formal requirement, is there a reference to be used for this sentence: “Their reviews also routinely include a suggested design for a future trial in this section.” “cited in over half” – I would suggest to revise “mentioned (or used) in over half”. Conclusion statement at the end of the manuscript: the same comment as for the conclusion statement at the end of the Abstract. Perhaps the authors should mention some other resources that the trialists should use to improve some of these aspects, such as core outcome sets. 