The manuscript by Collado-Torres et al . provides a workflow to analyze public RNA-seq data using ‘recount2’. Recount2 is a resource that provides whole-genome coverage tracks for more than 70,000 RNA-seq experiments. The accompanying R/Bioconductor package ‘recount’ gives programmatic access to download read counts per gene and to estimate read counts for genomic regions of interest. In an RNA-seq pipeline, processing raw data into the formats available through recount2 involves the most time-consuming steps. Thus, recount2 will save many researchers a lot of time. The workflow describes how to programmatically access data from recount2 and describes different analyses that can be done using these data. However, I think the authors needs improve and clarify some aspects of the workflow, which I summarize below. Major comments: The authors use the formula in equation 1 to scale read counts. While I agree that the read counts will be approximately equal to the sum of the coverage divided by the read length, it was not clear why the additional rescaling is needed. I recommend that the authors include a more extensive justification. Also, if the experiments were paired-end, wouldn’t this formula be counting reads instead of sequenced RNA fragments (i.e. double counting)? The section “Enriching annotation” describes several functions and analyses but does not provide any code or examples. Currently, since it is incomplete, it is more distracting than informative. I suggest that the authors either expand this section and add code or drop it. I don’t understand the biological question behind a differential expression analysis at the exon level. Could the authors clarify what the biological question is? If the aim is to find differential exon usage, wouldn’t it be better to use either DEXSeq, DRIMseq, or similar packages that are specifically designed for this analysis? Minor comments: The first three sentences of the introduction need references. The sentence “generally, when investigators use the term expression, they refer to gene expression” is not entirely true. For example, developmental or cell biologists often interpret “expression” as protein expression. For full reproducibility, it would be useful to download the data within R using the SRAdb package instead of downloading it manually. The code that creates the age groups is too complicated (4 embedded ‘ifelse’ statements). I have submitted a pull request with a simplified version of it ( https://github.com/LieberInstitute/recountWorkflow/pull/1 ). Figures 13 and 14 could be merged into a single plot, using shapes and colors to distinguish the different annotations. The same holds for figures 23 and 24. 