I would state the biggest issue with the manuscript is the work is not technically sound, because upon examining the metadata file from Patric, numerous strains included in the EHEC pangenome were in fact not EHEC strains. Many of the isolates are UPEC, STEC or EPEC strains that should not be included in the analysis and are resulting in potential errors in the results and conclusions of the manuscript. All O55 strains are EPECs, O104 from the Germany outbreak is a STEC not EHEC, O127 is an EPEC, and CFT073 is an UPEC strain, just as some examples. Furthermore, the analysis also includes O157:H7 strains that are wild type and mutant strains, and the mutants should not be included in the analysis. Additionally, the authors mention three clades include O157 (Clade I), O26 (Clade II) and O80 (Clade III), however these clades are formed because the vast majority of the strains used in the analysis come from those three serotypes. The analysis is missing three serotypes from the "big 6" serotypes, including O45, O121 and O145, and only include one or two representatives of two of the other serotypes O111, O103. There are numerous genomes available for each of these serotypes through NCBI that should be included in this analysis. Particularly as the "big 6" serotypes represent 50% of the infections, and in the United States represent adulterants in ground beef or other meat products. Therefore, they are a vital aspect for the development of pharmacophore modelling of sdiA to prevent colonization in cattle. Additionally, several genomic studies by Ogura et al (2009) 1 and Cooper et al (2014) 2 have shown that many of these "big 6" serotypes arise along different evolutionary pathways or split from O157 at different time points thus acquire different genes. It would vital to include these in analysis to see if these different pathways impacted the conservation of sdiA . The author should also provide a much cleaner version of the metadata as a separate tab in the spreadsheet that includes only those strains that were included in the analysis. Unfortunately, the above-mentioned issue means that all of the results in the manuscript are potential erroneous and need to be completely re-done with the elimination of non-EHEC strains and the inclusion of additional "big 6" genomes to provide a scientifically sound analysis. It would also be helpful to include in the methods section the date of the search, as the database is constantly changing making reproduction a little bit easier by other researchers. Upon the new analysis it would be helpful to include a brief table or statement of the serotype breakdown included in the EHEC pangenome that would also eliminate some of the above-mentioned issues and make it easier for readers to get a sense of those serotypes included in the analysis. There are a number of grammatical errors or poor phrasing in the manuscript that should be reviewed and corrected. Such as there is only one author and no indication of other researchers on the manuscript, yet the manuscript keeps stating we instead of I. Finally, there are several points made in the introduction and discussion that do not have references. For example, in the introduction the author mentions "pangenome of E. coli was published in 2008 contained 8 genomes" but does not reference the paper. Additionally, the author mentions "serogroup O80 has aside from Shiga toxin, an extra-intestinal virulence plasmid (pS88), is currently emerging in France" but do not reference anything indicating the emergence in France. I have also provided the citations for Ogura et al. 1 and Cooper et al. 2 for the author to review and potentially cite in the manuscript. 