The authors describe the findings from a national survey of 28 HIV/AIDS centres in Ukraine on the characteristics of young people (10-24 year olds) living with HIV (PLHIV), the policies around the transition from paediatric to adult care, and services provided at these HIV/AIDS centres for young PLHIV. Overall, the methodology is sound, and the data are clearly presented. Abstract The writing could be tightened, especially in the results section, where only major findings should be presented. Keywords Please limit the number of keywords. The authors may consider removing, “injecting drug use,” “reproductive health,” and “harm reduction.” Abbreviations Please make the abbreviations consistent with those in the text, “PHIV, perinatally HIV-infected” vs. “patients with perinatal HIV (PHIV)” in the text, and “BHIV, behaviourally HIV-infected” vs. “behaviourally-acquired HIV (BHIV)” in the text. Methods Please make it clear that there is a total of 28 HIV/AIDS centres, and all of them were included in the survey. Results “Out of 26 centres, 17 reported offering a support group.” Why is it 26 centres not 28 centres? If two centres did not respond to this specific question, state it clearly in the sentence. Table 2 It is not informative to compare types of transition support between centres with no transfers in 2015 and centres with transfers in 2015. If the authors like, they may make comparisons between 24 regional centres and four municipal centres, or by region (e.g., East and West), the size of the patient population, or other characteristics. Figure 2 The bars are not at the same height, because of missing data. The authors may consider adding a category, and showing the data in four categories: 1) service available at all appointments, 2) service available by special arrangement or referral, 3) service not available, and 4) data not available. Discussion “However, 26% of diagnosed individuals overall are currently unlinked to HIV care.” The meaning of the word, “unlinked,” is not clear. If the authors are talking about linkage to care, the sentence should be, “26% of diagnosed individuals overall have never been linked to HIV care.” If the authors are talking about retention in care, the sentence should be, “26% of diagnosed individuals overall are currently not retained in HIV care.” The analysis unit of the study is HIV/AIDS centre, e.g., the number and proportion of HIV/AIDS centres with STI testing and treatment services. The analysis is valid, but readers and policy makers are also interested, if not more interested, in the analysis in which patient is the analysis unit, e.g., the number and proportion of patients with access to STI testing and treatment services at HIV/AIDS centres. The authors may consider adding the analysis with patient as the analysis unit in the Results, or listing lack of such an analysis as a limitation in the Discussion. 