Neubauer and Pitson have compared here two commercially available antibodies to sphingosine kinase-2 (SK2) with regard to their performance in immunoblotting, immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence staining. As the authors point out, much less is still known about SK2 compared to SK1, and the roles of SK2 in cell death, survival, and cancer remain in large part enigmatic. Furthermore, the availability of good antibodies is certainly a matter in this area. These facts underline the importance of the author’s undertaking. Neubauer and Pitson present a thorough and convincing report. They selected two rabbit polyclonal antibodies raised against different regions of human SK2 with reported or predicted cross-reactivity with mouse and rat SK2. The antibodies were tested in HeLa and HEK293 cell lysates with and without siRNA knockdown of SK2, and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) from wild type and SphK2 -/- mice. The methods are reported clearly and in exceptional detail, which is of a great value per se . The results show that the SK2 antibody from Proteintech performed well in immunoblotting, while the ECM antibody hardly detected SK2 but stained multiple nonspecific bands in the human and mouse cell lysates. On the other hand, the SK2 antibody from ECM, but not the Proteintech antibody, precipitated a band with the molecular weight of SK2 and caused fluorescence staining of HeLa and HEK293 cells that was sensitive to SK2 siRNA. In the MEFs, finally, neither of the two antibodies was suitable for immunofluorescence, because their staining pattern was insensitive to SK2 siRNA. The authors thus provide valuable data which can help other researchers to establish suitable protocols in their own cellular systems. There are only minor points which deserve a discussion. Firstly, looking at Figure 1, the SK2 bands in the Western blot appear quite faint, and the reader wonders how the immunoblots would look like when they had been exposed more strongly. However, a view into the deposited data sets suggests that compared to overexpressed SK2, endogenous SK2 is probably expressed at very low levels in HeLa and HEK293 cells. Is this indeed the fact? Secondly, the Proteintech antibody, recognizing amino acids 266-618 of human SK2a, should also recognize other isoforms of SK2 with different N-terminal lengths. Why is there only one band? Is there only one isoform of SK2 expressed in HeLa and HEK293 cells? Thirdly, a low expression of SK2 might also hamper the generation of higher quality immunofluorescence images. The ECM antibody stained nuclei and cytosolic structures in HeLa cells for which a nuclear localization of SK2 has been reported, while it caused mere cytosolic staining in HEK293 cells, similar to what others have observed with GFP-SK2. While these observations provide confidence in the specificity of the antibody, the weak staining, preventing higher resolution images, raises some doubts that a localization of endogenous SK2 at subcellular structures such as mitochondria could be detected by this antibody.