 Abstract Background Please use HBV and HCV estimates from the WHO fact sheets which are more updated. Results For clarity it is suggested to expand what the authors mean by "intravenous injections" as many readers might associate it with intravenous drug use. If it is intravenous therapeutic or medical injections please state that. Conclusions Please make the conclusion more objective. When authors say "monitoring mechanism" please clarify monitoring of what? Public sector funding for what? Introductions Please use the HBV and HCV estimates from these WHO factsheets. HBV HCV The most common terms nowadays is people who inject drugs (PWIDs) or injection drug user (IDU) however, PWID has replaced IDU. Data variables Please clarify if the question only asked intravenous injections and information regarding receiving intra muscular injections was not collected? In order to be clear it is suggested to rephrase ever having had intravenous (IV) injections (and number of injections in the last five years) to number of intravenous injections received in the last five years. Rephrase: ever having had blood transfusions to ever had blood transfusion. Applicable to all similar variables. Data collection and management Generally, so much detail about piloting is not required. In the interest of “economy of words” it is suggested to simply say, “the questionnaire was piloted and participants of the pilot were not included in the actual study.” Serum sample collection and diagnosis I am not qualified to review this section. However, if it can be reduced to fewer lines by the authors it will be beneficial for the reader. But if the authors are convinced that it should stay, I am okay with that. Results What do the authors mean by descriptive prevalence? The standard way of presenting results is by describing demographic characteristics of the subjects which can also be developed by hepatitis status wise. Tables should provide more information about the participants. Not clear what does a "heat map" mean? It seems like a distribution map of hepatitis status of the patents district wise. The map has been developed based on hepatitis status and district of origin of the patients. How GPS coordinates were collected when all interviews were conducted at the health facility? The flow chart provides the process of study i.e. the number of patients came in the health centres during the study period, number refused, number screened then perhaps the number interviewed. At the moment the flow chart and the tables seem the same. They have to be different. In "seroprevalence of HBV, HCV and co infection" there is incorrect use of Chisquare. Chisquare shows association between two variables not trends. Tables 2 to 4 showing crude OR as adjusted OR? Confidence intervals have 1 in the range which is insignificant but it is shown as significant. Discussion Discussion should be in this pattern: First para describing the key findings of the study. Subsequent paras talk about key findings in light of other peer reviewed studies. Penultimate para should be the limitation in which also authors have to mention "recall bias". In conclusion please mention the use of availability of direct acting antivirals (DAAs) in Pakistan particularly for hepatitis C. 