The authors have performed a small, randomized trial comparing transforaminal epidural steroid injection (TFESI) to TFESI plus add-on caudal ESI. This is an interesting concept, there are not many randomized trials that compare add-on therapy (in essence, a comparative-effectiveness study). I enjoyed reading this and feel it would be a welcome addition to the literature. Introduction: Introduction, para 1: Steroids also suppress ectopic discharges of injured nerves, and may enhance the washout of inflammatory cytokines. This is eloquently noted in the discussion but should be noted at the beginning of the introduction as well. The authors use the term synergistic incorrectly. Synergistic would be 20% + 20% = 50%, but while 2 treatments may afford better results than a single one (see Gilron et al. studies for neuropathic medications), the results are usually not even additive. There is a downside to doing a caudal + TFESI even if it works better. There are 2 different billing codes, so it may not be approved. Not only does it increase costs, but it also increases the risk (compared to just using higher volumes or doses). The authors should, therefore, provide a rationale as to why the combination should work better (the background on the literature is otherwise focused and to the point). Please consider providing objectives in the ‘introduction’ (the authors do a good job of setting the stage for the study, but specific objectives would be helpful). Methods: I actually like the fact that there was no minimum pain score, as this is always subjective and when a minimum is employed, patients often end up skewed towards the cutoff (i.e. a non-normal curve). On a similar note, I also appreciate that patients with both a herniated disc and spinal stenosis. Were there any differences in outcomes? Many patients with radicular pain have bilateral symptoms. If this were the case, how did the investigators choose what side to inject? Or were these patients excluded (if this is the case, please note it in the ‘methods’)? Why did a nurse anesthetist assess outcomes? Was sedation used (please mention)? Although the authors performed a power analysis, the study is likely underpowered, as well-designed studies now enroll several hundred people (see Friedly et al. NEJM, FDA-endorsed CLEAR study) to detect a difference between an ESI and a sham injection, so comparing 2 different ESI should require even more. Yet, the authors have shown a difference. Please consider mentioning the randomization block size. The study had excellent retention (few lost-to-follow-ups), but please note how missing data were handled in the ‘statistical analysis’ section. Results: I agree with one categorical outcome being 50% pain relief, but the IMMPACT guidelines state that 30% or more relief is ‘clinically meaningful’, so most pain studies now use that cutoff as a positive outcome. According to a review by Bicket MC et al. in Pain Pract 2017, an even lower percentage of pain relief seems to predict satisfaction in most patients. So you might consider showing the proportion of people who also obtained 30% pain relief. Duration of pain is a really important clinical variable that can have a huge effect on outcome (Bicket et al. AQUARIUS.. Reg Anesth Pain Med 2018). Please note the duration of pain for the groups. Figures 2 and 3 are wrong because the figure legends states they are showing pain scores ODI respectively when the y-axes state they are showing ODI and pain scores, respectively (i.e. they’re reversed). Discussion: - in general, well-written and focused. There are 2 possible reasons that warrant mention as to why a difference was shown. One is that the combination group received a higher dose of steroid and local anesthetic (if there had been a group that received a higher dose of steroids by one route as a control that would have formed another control and answered questions). However, there are half a dozen studies that compare 2 different doses of steroids and nearly all have found no difference. The second reason is that the group that received both injections had greater expectations, and therefore had a higher placebo response rate. 