In this article, A. Auerbach and colleagues revisit the published claim that dietary miRNAs can be detected in human blood. Using carefully designed analytical procedures, they show that the original claim was most likely erroneous. Using RNA samples provided by the authors of the initial paper, with various detection techniques and sensitive statistical testing, Auerbach et al. could not find any indication of food-derived miRNAs in human plasma or peripheral blood mononuclear cells. They also provide a simple mathematical demonstration that the proposed miRNA dietary intake would require unrealistic volumes of ingested milk. This is a solid manuscript, which addresses an important issue. I only have minor comments: this manuscript is almost already suitable for indexing. Minor comment #1: End of the first paragraph of page 2 ("[...] although larger effects have also been described"): bibliographical references are needed here (to my knowledge, large effects were only measured after experimental miRNA over-expression - not with endogenous miRNA levels). Minor comment #2: In paragraph "Sample delivery, preparation, and quality control" (page 2): dry ice was "largely sublimated" (that observation is also reported at various other places in the manuscript). Do the authors mean that dry ice was completely gone? Or were there still some pellets? If the styrofoam box is well insulated, just one solid pellet in the box ensures that the atmosphere inside the box is still at -80C. The authors should at least tell whether RNA solutions were still solid on arrival. Minor comment #3: In paragraph "OpenArray data normalization and analysis" (page 2): 26 features were selected for "relatively low variability". How was this done? Minor comment #4: In paragraph "RNA stability test" (page 3): was cel-miR-39 spiked-in before or after shipping on dry ice? Minor comment #5: The only reliably detected bovine miRNA in human blood is bta-miR-1839, but its accumulation dynamics are not compatible with dietary uptake (first sentence of page 10). The authors may wish to be aware that this "miRNA" is most likely a degradation product from an abundant nuclear RNA, SCARNA15. Full-length bovine and human SCARNA15 are not absolutely identical, but that subsequence (AAGGUAGAUAGAACAGGUCUUGUU) is common to the bovine and human sequences.