I read with great interest the article entitled “Composting treatment of fur waste originating from tannery” written by Csar Puente, Janneth Jara-Samaniego, Alexander Guapulema, and Diego Burbano-Salas in which: authors draw attention on the importance of process industrial waste coming from tanneries; a 141 days (waste degradation) + 64 days (maturing) long compost experiment is described. The study was carried out with the purpose of discuss a low-cost strategy to decompose tanning industrial waste. I have found that the paper contains interesting and up-to-date information on the topic about waste management. In that sense, I find that the research finds well within the scope of the journal, and adds new information. However, there are a series of limitations that make me recommend some minor revisions of this manuscript. Major concerns: Introduction should be expanded. The study propones a comparison between the results obtained at different time points in the composting process, namely: COD, sulfur, Organic matter %. It should be mentioned that only Organic matter was monitored from the mentioned parameters. COD and sulfur values shown at the beginning and at the end of compost process only. It would be more fortunate to compare these parameters. If only at two time points - these parameters (COD and sulfur) were measured, then Organic matter values should be selected at same time points for comparison purposes, if enough data available for further statistical tests. Authors concluded that “…Considering that the initial germination index was 10.73% and the final 43.55%, it can be concluded that there was a partial elimination of phytotoxic substances. The challenge is to improve this parameter by looking for new mixtures and inoculating efficient microorganisms that allow these substances to be degraded.” What missing are the authors’ recommendations regarding how to improve germination index according to the observations discussed in the study. Please specify which exact parameters must to be “improved” e.g. in pH value, N ?! etc. in order to improve the germination index. 