The evolutionary conservation of a large number of predicted co-evolving residue pairs has been investigated for possible correlation between the extent of conservation and the strength of co-evolving residue networks. Co-evolution has been predicted by four different popular algorithms. Residues with a high networking of co-evolved residues are found to be more evolutionarily conserved. However, the same trend is not true at the entire protein domain family level and evolutionarily conserved protein families appear to exhibit less co-evolved network of residues. Likewise, solvent-accessible residues were predicted to retain more co-evolutionary connections in comparison to solvent-buried residues. These are interesting observations, but the connections between these individual observations and possible implications/applications will be good to include in the paper. Queries: The first sentence in the Abstract could be changed to "Amino acid exchanges within proteins sometimes compensate for one another and could therefore be co-evolved." since this fact of tight linking is not well-known and forms one of the questions in this study. Page 4: It will be nice to explain how the conservation score (within the AL2CO program) is calculated. Was there no check for consensus in predicting the co-evolved residues? For instance, to see whichever are predicted by three or more methods … It will be interesting to examine the results for subset of such highly predicted co-evolved sites. Page 4: “Representative three-dimensional (3D) structures were collected for each family from the Protein Data Bank” – to provide details as to how they were selected? Page 5: This statement “Observation of strong positive correlation between coevolutionary connections and evolutionary conservation within the coevolved sites selected based on structural proximity suggests that highly coevolved protein sites tend to evolve slower.” seems to be apparently counter-intuitive. How can highly conserved sites be co-evolving also? Highly conserved sites usually imply high degree of identity (self-amino acid preservation). If so, how a co-evolutionary index can be set up for two spatially proximate residues which remain identical? Please explain for the benefit of the readers. 