The review entitled “Functional genomic approaches to improve crop plant heat stress tolerance” is relevant considering the present climate change scenario and global food security. The review highlighted the negative effects of heat stress on crop plants. Heat stress is a major yield-limiting factor in this climate change scenario. This review presents recent achievements in understanding the molecular basis of heat tolerance in crop plants. Further, it discussed the usage of appropriate approaches from the identification of heat tolerant genes to their incorporation into cultivated crop varieties. The article is written and organised nicely but still some minor improvements can be done. Specific comments Title The title of the article is appropriate and accurately reflect the content of the paper. Abstract It represent the article nicely. Introduction Last two lines of introduction can be improved. Authors written reverse genetic techniques can improve the understanding of their expression patterns under heat stress. I suggest that instead of writing reverse genetic techniques they should mention the names of these techniques. Mining of stress linked genes Authors mentioned: Singh et al. (2015) investigated the heat responsive genes for potato tuberization and Ginzberg et al. identified the candidate heat responsive genes for potato periderm formation using microarrays. I suggest, either write the year with Ginzberg et al. or remove year from Singh et al. (2015) to keep the same formatting. Validating the stress responsive genes I found this section is very interesting. Approaches to enhance heat tolerance Do not write the gene name; AmDREB2C in Italics as rest of the gene names in text are not written in Italics. Conclusion Summarized the article in a coherent way. Overall, the article is logically structured and well-organised, and provides a useful compilation of subject matter related to addressed topic. It is an important contribution and I highly recommend it. 