The Opinion Article by Owen Driskell and colleagues cites and briefly explains the relevant regulations in the UK concerning research conducted in pathology departments, with an emphasis on clinical trials. Editorially, and consistent with the principles of the UK policy framework for health and social care research (reference 1 - https://www.hra.nhs.uk/planning-and-improving-research/policies-standards-legislation/uk-policy-framework-health-social-care-research/ ) the authors state that the “requirements of the regulatory environment should not be seen as a barrier to research and should not significantly impact on the work of the laboratory once established and integrated into practice.” The article is organized, generally well written and succinct, and provides links (in the references) to the appropriate statutes and regulations. This reviewer recommends (in the section “Human Tissue Act 2004 and the Human Tissue Authority”) that the authors clarify whether the Human Tissue Act covers analytes stored in pathology departments such as DNA, RNA, and protein that have been isolated from human tissues. The Human Tissue Act does not consider acellular samples to be “relevant material;” however the Act clearly covers the use of DNA in research. Editing suggestions for consideration by the authors : Abstract (sentences 2-3): “As the custodians of patient samples, pathology departments have a duty to ensure compliance with the relevant regulations, standards and guidelines to ensure the ethical and effective use for their intended investigational analysis, including when patients are participating in a research study.” Paragraph 2 (sentences 1-2): “In addition to research initiated by pathologists, a large amount of research is led by researchers from outside pathology requiring services delivered by pathology departments.” Paragraph 2 (sentence 4): “Data generated from pathology departments support research in a wide variety of ways.” (“Data” is plural.) Paragraph 13 (beginning “The primary focus of inspection by the MHRA…”) the second and third sentences could be misinterpreted. I suggest rewording as follows: “Although routine sample analyses for safety testing within clinical chemistry and haemotology laboratories are not the central focus of this inspection programme, the legislation does not differentiate between the purpose of different types of sample analysis; this is a pragmatic approach by the MHRA Inspectorate and potentially any aspects may be reviewed during an inspection.” Paragraph 17 (sentence 2): All the existing professional standards and regulations still apply and those that relate specifically to research must also be applied.” 