The authors have applied unsupervised word segmentation methods to protein sequences which in itself is a very novel undertaking and overall the manuscript is well written. However there are some outstanding points which the authors could consider to improve the quality of the manuscript. Some justification should be provided as to why 9 was selected as the maximal protein word length. How are the results affected as a function of maximal word length. On page 3, the authors write 'In human language texts, the output of segmentation is a meaningful word sequence. As expected, the same is true for a protein sequence.' It is not clear what the authors mean by 'meaningful' in the case of protein sequences. What kind of 'meaning' do the authors expect on applying an ostensibly linguistic method to protein sequences. Again on the same page the authors note that 'word segmentation is highly similar to the protein secondary structure assignment process.' Secondary structural assignment in proteins is based on the successive values of the main chain phi,psi angles and the hydrogen bonding patterns. The authors however could mean the propensity based assignment of secondary structure in case of protein structure prediction which is known to be inaccurate, the propensities being estimated from appropriate databases. Although the authors cite back references (3-6) how the structural segmentation was performed should be discussed in much greater detail in the present manuscript. If the structural segmentation was performed on the basis of actual secondary structure present in a protein (phi,psi and hydrogen bonding pattern) then there does not appear to be any connection between the two processes of segmentation, in terms of word and structure. So they should naturally be expected to be different. On fails to understand the contrary expectations of the authors when they note on page 4 ,'Therefore, protein word segmentation is different from secondary structure segmentation. This result does not satisfy our expectation'. On should also note that identical sequences have been known to adopt variable secondary structures in proteins due to other factors such as tertiary contacts and its position with respect to the rest of the polypeptide chain. How does this fact reflect on the overall results of the manuscripts? Therefore although the work concerns a novel implementation of the word segmentation method in the context of protein sequences, some of the 'expectations' and interpretations of the authors possibly require greater clarity or stronger justification. 