This is the first time I've written an open peer review, although I always sign private peer reviews. Normally I'd make comments directed to the authors and the authors alone, but since this is open, I've also included a section for other readers of this paper. This may sound a bit like an Amazon or Airbnb review or something. Short summary for readers This is an excellent paper about the academic, economic, and societal benefits and impacts of Open Access. It's a good introductory text for people who don't know much about OA and would like to know more. It's also a good persuasive text for stakeholders in policy, universities, publishing, funding, etc. positions who may be interested in including OA in their decision making. In addition to its attention to detail, its main strengths are its focus, its brevity, and its relative impartiality. One of the difficulties with writing about OA is that there are so many overlapping issues; this paper is very good at giving a brief overview or description of the other issues, pointing the reader in the direction of somewhere with more information, and then getting back onto the topic. Another thing about OA is that its advocates are very passionate about it. As with any cause, that's a good thing for its supporters, but overwhelmingly pro-OA resources can seem potentially off-putting to neutrals. This paper does an excellent job of presenting an evidence-based pro-OA viewpoint in a measured tone and without coming across as ideological. One possible caveat is that the paper presents extensive evidence of what OA does, but it doesn't tackle the meatier issue of how to implement it successfully. However, I feel that's a separate issue which is beyond the scope and purpose of this paper. Suggestions and comments for authors First of all, great article! Well done and thank you for pulling together what is a disparate collection of links and literature into a one-stop shop which is both useful and coherent. I like this article a lot... but my role here is to criticise and make it better, so the rest of this review will focus on that. This article is well-written and well-structured. That's made it much easier as a reviewer to simply go through the article and highlight my issues with it paragraph by paragraph, rather than having to make it coherent first and then sort out the smaller things. The vast majority of the issues I have with this paper are minor ones, so it didn't make sense to have separate major/minor sections; rather, I'll just go through them in order in the text. (I printed this out to underline/comment on, so for me, tables 1 and 2 came during the academic case for OA section. Online, they're supplementary materials, and I think it's best that way, but this is why I'm commenting on the tables during that section) Abstract "We recommend that OA supporters focus their efforts on working to establish viable new models and systems of scholarly communication, rather than trying to undermine the existing ones..." In general, I agree with this sentiment. However, I feel that its inclusion in the abstract is a bit jarring as the text of the article doesn't really cover recommendations to OA supporters at all, other than in the very last paragraph. I think that's good, as I feel this paper is best suited as relatively neutral source of information rather than a preaching to the converted or ideology discussion kind of purpose. So, I think this part can be left out of the abstract; it doesn't refer to any particular "recommendations to OA supporters" bit in the text and potentially clouds the strength of the relative impartiality of the paper. A brief history of OA "BioMed Central and ... PLOS were founded in the early 2000s and remain successful businesses to date." (p3, col2) Technically, PLOS is a non-profit. I suggest changing successful businesses to successful business models. This both highlights the financial sustainability of OA (increased APCs at PLOS notwithstanding) and also sets it apart from traditional publishers, which are definitely successful businesses. The academic case for OA figure 1 (p4, top) I have difficulty interpreting the y-axis on figure 1. It's labelled as cumulative number of PubMed articles relative to 2000, but I'm not sure how to read it. Reading off 2014, non-OA is c.22 on the y-axis, and OA is c.33 on the y-axis. Based on the figure 1 caption about the ratio, I'm interpreting this as meaning that, in 2014, the ratio of cumulative PubMed articles was approx 33:22 OA to non-OA, or in other words, 60% of PubMed articles in 2000-2014 were OA. However, I'm not sure if this is how it's meant to be interpreted. I think that it's well visualised, and really makes it clear how OA has taken off, but exactly what the numbers represent on the y-axis is unclear to me: number of articles? number of times more articles? It could use some relabelling. "Napster moment" (p4, col1) I like the comparison, but it could use a citation (even just the Napster wikipedia article) and/or a little more explanation to clarify what that means. Table 1: "1991 ... by the American physician Paul Ginsparg" He's a physicist, not a physician. Table 2: Xu et al (2011) I don't think this reference was very well cited. Firstly, Oxford Open Journals are listed as a discipline, when they're the source of papers across disciplines. The actual disciplines were Medicine, Social Sciences, Mathematics Physical Sciences, Life Sciences, and Humanities. Secondly, you list the citation advantage as 138.87%. However, one of the main findings of this paper was the disparity in citation advantages; it ranged from 163.16% for OA articles in Mathematics Physical Sciences to an actual citation disadvantage of -49.24% for OA articles in Humanities. Given the pro-OA nature of the paper, I feel like you have an extra responsibility to report the few anti-OA pieces of evidence. Gargouri et al (2010) (page 8, col1) This paragraph is about a possible confound for the OA citation advantage, where it could be that researchers choose to publish OA for extra cool findings, and you use the Gargouri et al. study to counter this... which is totally correct. You write: "Gargouri et al. (2010) compared citation counts [for articles which were] self-selected as OA or mandated as OA. The study concluded that both were cited significantly more than non-OA articles. As such, these findings rule out a selection bias" This is true that both OA types were cited more than non-OA. However, it's also missing the crucial point that there was no difference in citation between self-selected OA articles and mandatory OA articles. Including this would strengthen your point to show that it's OA itself which leads to the citation advantage. The whole section about altmetrics (subhead societal impact of the academic case for OA, p8, col2) could use some attention. It's not clear until much later what the difference is between alternative metrics (i.e. altmetrics), i.e. the various types of metrics which are alternative to journal impact factors, and Altmetric, i.e. the company which is often confusingly referred to as Altmetrics (not in this paper, to be fair, but elsewhere). A quick disambiguating sentence or two would be really useful here. In the following paragraph (page 8, col2), you write about OA altmetrics advantage, and say that there's a logical assumption that OA articles should have one. However, this doesn't consider the fact that the prestige of some journals is advertising in and of itself. You can, and do, get a lot of closed-access papers which generate high altmetrics (social media attention, Mendeley readhership) from academics who do have access. And sure enough, in the next paragraph, (page 8 and 9), the Wang et al. 2015 article finds that the OA altmetric advantage doesn't extend to the most impactful articles. I think this section can be made more nuanced and informative by quickly discussing the role of journal prestige. Nothing in depth, just as something that exists and needs to change (for example, you could point people to Brembs et al. and the Deep Impact paper in Frontiers). "Essentially, copyright is a tool wielded by traditional publishers for financial gain rather than fostering creativity..." I don't disagree with this. However, I feel it comes on too strong. I think it's fair to say that most people's immediate opinion of copyright is "well, I'd like my stuff to be copyrighted, as that means people can't steal it and pass it off as their own". I think that you need a little more detail here, even just two or three sentences to explain how and why copyright is used for financial gain rather than author protection. Otherwise, it just sounds political/ideological, and counterintuitive for people who haven't read much about copyright. Glenisson et al. (2005) citation (page 9, col2). You write that TDM has "proven to be useful for a large variety of applications", and use the Glenisson citation to back this up. I have to say here that I know very little about TDM; however, following through to the Glenisson paper, I don't see how it supports that conclusion. I read it and it seems to show a proof-of-concept kind of study: that TDM can group a set of papers into themes in the same way that an expert can. This is really cool and everything, but I don't think that that substantiates your point that TDM is useful for a large variety of applications. Rather, I'd like to see a couple of specific examples, which you then describe more fully in the next paragraph. One good one is Swanson 1987 (I think - taken from here: http://people.ischool.berkeley.edu/~hearst/papers/acl99/acl99-tdm.html ), who used TDM to make the link between migraines and magnesium deficiency. "...simply because one can no longer keep up with the published literature". Small point, but I think it's worth stressing that this is due to the amount of literature that there is. The economic case for OA the pay-to-publish part (p10, col2) I feel this glosses over problems with pay-to-publish. You come back to predatory OA later, but this isn't quite the same: I think it could use a couple of extra sentences describing what the conflict of interest for researchers is, and also stress that pay-to-publish makes it potentially in a journal's interest to accept more papers than they necessarily should. One of the most common anti-OA arguments I see in non-scientific media is that OA is pay-to-publish, which is often misrepresented as "pay-to-publish is publication bribery". I think this section needs a little more substance to it to acknowledge/address this. "making publication costs dependent on the value added..." (page 11, col1) When talking about the value added by journals, this paragraph ignores the elephant in the room: journal prestige. Again, I know that this isn't the purpose of this article, but I think it could really be strengthened by mentioning it before moving on. "Much primary research actually takes place outside of academia inside research and development departments" (page 11, col2) The part following this sentence is muddy. First, you talk about RD outside academia (i.e. presumably private research), and then you talk about access to research results because they're publicly financed public goods. So, what does that mean, that RD from private businesses who've invested their own capital in it should be made available to all? (maybe I agree with that, in some cases, but a lot of people sure won't) I think this paragraph could be honed a bit; otherwise, it's straying into the ideological territory of saying that all private research should be made public for the public good. That transcends OA in scholarly publishing, and makes OA in scholarly publishing too easy to dismiss. The cancer research paragraph (page 12, col1) is also unclear. It took me a while to figure out it's talking about UK expenditure - my first assumption of "total expenditure" meant worldwide. It's also not totally clear what the point is - the geographical origin of research is unrelated to its open status. I think that it's quite a leap to write (apologies for paraphrasing) "83% of UK economic benefit from cancer research comes from research outside UK, therefore open access is good", because I think it conflates two different things. Also, small point, "17% of the annual net-monetary was estimated" is missing the word benefit after net-monetary. The societal case for OA Small point: as somebody who wears a linguistics hat quite often, it rankles to read on page 11 "Examples of [non-academic] groups who might benefit include... those who work in linguistics and translation". Translation, for sure, but linguistics is an academic field - you even mention the Lingua to Glossa movement organised by academic linguists later in the manuscript! To me, this is like writing "...those who work in biology and vets", lumping the academic field and a practical use of that field together. Just referring to translation is fine. Citizen engagement (page 13, col 1) I agree that these are great examples of citizen engagement with science, but at the risk of sounding like an Elsevier representative, interest in projects like Galaxy Zoo does not entail desire to download and read papers. In fact, you could even make the (spurious) argument that those projects come into existence precisely because citizens aren't interested in downloading and reading papers. I don't actually agree with that, I agree with your general point... but I think that citizen science project interest and citizen science paper interest. Obviously I think it is in the public interest to have science journals OA, but this isn't the right argument (and I think the sentence "Such statements conflate a lack of desire or need for access with the denial of opportunity to access research" is perfect). I think a stronger argument would be to look at existing OA journals, such as PLOS and Frontiers, and see how many views and downloads come from people who aren't academics. If you can point to, say, some of the most viewed/downloaded PLOS papers and say "look, 30% (or whatever, that's a random number) of these readers aren't academics, they're real people who are interested in it", that would make for a stronger argument. Quibble about the "yes, we were warned about Ebola" example: the finding from that paper (that Liberians have Ebola antibodies in their blood, suggesting the endemic presence of Ebola) is actually written on the first page preview of the paper ( http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0769261782800282/part/first-page-pdf , accessed from my laptop outside my institution). It could be argued that anybody could see this finding anywhere in the world, meaning that it's not a problem of OA, it's a problem about searching and indexing. A good counterargument to that is obviously that this paper would have been unsearchable with TDM at the start of the outbreak when people were combing through all West African Ebola literature. " 'green' model of OA adoption" (page 13, col2) You generally refer to Green and Gold routes, with the colours capitalised. Just a small terminology thing to keep consistent. A much more important thing is also on page 13, col2: "The pay-to-publish system is a potentially greater burden for authors in developed countries, considering that they are not used to paying publication costs, and funding systems for OA are not as well-established as those in the Western world." -- developing countries, not developed countries! Predatory publishers (page 14, col1) I agree with Ross Mounce's comment on the paper: you give Beall too much importance. I think it can be a useful list and should be mentioned, but definitely include some caveats like the ones Ross writes, or the fact that he added Frontiers to the list because of a couple of editorial mistakes. Conclusions Peter Suber (page 16, col1) You describe him as "a leading voice in the OA movement", but I think you should write what his positions are (see http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/~psuber/wiki/Peter_Suber ) in order to justify his importance. Other general things There are no proposed solutions in this paper, which is totally fine, because it's beyond the scope of the paper. I feel it could benefit by putting in a couple of sentences here and there about who is needed for driving this change: academics, funders, governments, etc. I was disappointed not to see anything about the Dutch government and university library organisations' collective drive towards OA. They've changed the national law on copyright, they've reached agreements with most major publishing groups, they may well introduce mandatory OA publishing in the Netherlands in 2016, and they've made it one of the main priorities of their EU presidency this year. It's like the best example of how a whole country can take the lead and sort it out. I think including a quick reference to the Netherlands as an example of excellent OA policy (in the same way that you mention sciELO in Latin America) would go a long way towards convincing the people who are reading this thinking, "ah, yes, I guess OA makes sense in the developing world, but we're doing fine here in the West and it would be too difficult to change things". A good summary of that is here: http://openaccess.nl/en/in-the-netherlands/current-situation Final remarks That's the end of my 2800-odd word review. I really enjoyed reading this paper, going through it, and trying to find ways to improve it. Thanks to the authors for writing an excellent paper. References 1. Brembs B, Button K, Munafò M: Deep impact: unintended consequences of journal rank. Front Hum Neurosci . 2013; 7 : 291 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Swanson D: Two medical literatures that are logically but not bibliographically connected. Journal of the American Society for Information Science . 1987; 38 (4): 228-233 3.0.CO;2-G">Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: Non-financial: I'm an Open Access advocate, and so I have a vested ideological interest in seeing papers like this succeed and reach wide audiences. However, if anything, I believe that makes my peer review more critical, as I want this paper to be the best paper it can be. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Lockwood G. Reviewer Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13293 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13293 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (15) Version 3 VERSION 3 PUBLISHED 21 Sep 2016 Revised Comment ADD YOUR COMMENT Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 09 Jun 2016 Revised Discussion is closed on this version, please comment on the latest version above. Author Response 11 Jul 2016 Jon Tennant , Imperial College London, London, UK 11 Jul 2016 Author Response Dear Ruth, Many thanks for pointing out that typo. It looks like just a keyboard malfunction of some sort! We'd be happy to fix it in future versions of ... Continue reading Dear Ruth, Many thanks for pointing out that typo. It looks like just a keyboard malfunction of some sort! We'd be happy to fix it in future versions of our paper. Dear Ruth, Many thanks for pointing out that typo. It looks like just a keyboard malfunction of some sort! We'd be happy to fix it in future versions of our paper. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 11 Jul 2016 Ruth Lewis , Biology Library, Washington University, USA 11 Jul 2016 Reader Comment Very useful review! Pardon my ignorance but I don't understand the fggd in Open Accessfggd policies - Figure 3? Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Very useful review! Pardon my ignorance but I don't understand the fggd in Open Accessfggd policies - Figure 3? Very useful review! Pardon my ignorance but I don't understand the fggd in Open Accessfggd policies - Figure 3? Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Author Response 17 Jun 2016 Lauren Collister , University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA 17 Jun 2016 Author Response Elizabeth, Thank you very much for your response and your focus on copyright. Unfortunately we did not have enough time to devote to the fine issues of copyright and ... Continue reading Elizabeth, Thank you very much for your response and your focus on copyright. Unfortunately we did not have enough time to devote to the fine issues of copyright and OA and hope that others will take up the opportunity to do that. However, here are some explanations of our thinking on these two particular points: We are aware that academic authors are uneasy about the commercial and derivative uses of their work. However, we don’t make any arguments about the behavior of others or the moral rights held by the authors; there simply isn’t time in this article to address this issue. Moral rights and CC licenses have been debated for a long time (e.g. Larry Lessig in 2005: http://www.lessig.org/2005/02/on-the-challenge-of-moral-righ/ ) and even the CC-BY license indicates that “other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material” ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). I’ve come across some interesting thoughts on this matter, for example this post from Anne Barron ( http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/10/18/open-access-creative-commons-moral-rights/ ), that give food for thought in this area. I haven’t seen any definitive legal decisions that deal with this particular area; if you know of any, we would be very interested to learn about them. The act of applying a CC license indicates that an author is explicitly reserving copyright for themselves while granting certain usage rights to the public, which was the meaning behind our statement. (However I, a linguist, do appreciate the semantics of the verb RETAIN that you bring up here!) Your statement is also correct, in that the focus of CC licenses is on how the users may engage with the item, and I thank you for bringing up this perspective. Thanks again, Lauren (on behalf of the authors) Elizabeth, Thank you very much for your response and your focus on copyright. Unfortunately we did not have enough time to devote to the fine issues of copyright and OA and hope that others will take up the opportunity to do that. However, here are some explanations of our thinking on these two particular points: We are aware that academic authors are uneasy about the commercial and derivative uses of their work. However, we don’t make any arguments about the behavior of others or the moral rights held by the authors; there simply isn’t time in this article to address this issue. Moral rights and CC licenses have been debated for a long time (e.g. Larry Lessig in 2005: http://www.lessig.org/2005/02/on-the-challenge-of-moral-righ/ ) and even the CC-BY license indicates that “other rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material” ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). I’ve come across some interesting thoughts on this matter, for example this post from Anne Barron ( http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2013/10/18/open-access-creative-commons-moral-rights/ ), that give food for thought in this area. I haven’t seen any definitive legal decisions that deal with this particular area; if you know of any, we would be very interested to learn about them. The act of applying a CC license indicates that an author is explicitly reserving copyright for themselves while granting certain usage rights to the public, which was the meaning behind our statement. (However I, a linguist, do appreciate the semantics of the verb RETAIN that you bring up here!) Your statement is also correct, in that the focus of CC licenses is on how the users may engage with the item, and I thank you for bringing up this perspective. Thanks again, Lauren (on behalf of the authors) Competing Interests: I am a co-author of this paper. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 16 Jun 2016 Elizabeth Gadd , Loughborough University, UK 16 Jun 2016 Reader Comment I really enjoyed this paper - a great overview of the key themes and issues around open access. Thank you. I would query two points you make: ... Continue reading I really enjoyed this paper - a great overview of the key themes and issues around open access. Thank you. I would query two points you make: You write: "The only constraint on reproduction and distribution, and the only role for copyright in this domain, should be to give authors control over the integrity of their work and the right to be properly acknowledged and cited. This definition is broadly equivalent to the Creative Commons Attribution license (CC-BY), which is widely considered to be a standard for OA (creativecommons.org/licenses/)." Whilst CC-BY gives authors the right to be properly acknowledged and cited, it does not give authors control over the integrity of their work. A CC-BY licence allows anyone to do anything with the work, even for commercial purposes. This is something academic authors are very uneasy about. See: Gadd, E., Oppenheim, C. Probets, S., 2003. RoMEO Studies 2: How academics want to protect their open-access research papers. Journal of information science. Available at: http://jis.sagepub.com/content/29/5/333.short [Accessed March 4, 2013]. 2) You write: "The majority of ‘born OA’ journals and publishers do not request or receive copyright from authors. Instead, publishers are granted non-exclusive rights to publish, and copyright is retained by authors through a Creative Commons license (typically CC-BY)." When an author signs a non-exclusive agreement with a publisher, copyright is retained by the author by virtue of copyright law, not by virtue of a Creative Commons licence. However, users of the research may engage with it by virtue of a Creative Commons licence. Is this what you mean? I really enjoyed this paper - a great overview of the key themes and issues around open access. Thank you. I would query two points you make: You write: "The only constraint on reproduction and distribution, and the only role for copyright in this domain, should be to give authors control over the integrity of their work and the right to be properly acknowledged and cited. This definition is broadly equivalent to the Creative Commons Attribution license (CC-BY), which is widely considered to be a standard for OA (creativecommons.org/licenses/)." Whilst CC-BY gives authors the right to be properly acknowledged and cited, it does not give authors control over the integrity of their work. A CC-BY licence allows anyone to do anything with the work, even for commercial purposes. This is something academic authors are very uneasy about. See: Gadd, E., Oppenheim, C. Probets, S., 2003. RoMEO Studies 2: How academics want to protect their open-access research papers. Journal of information science. Available at: http://jis.sagepub.com/content/29/5/333.short [Accessed March 4, 2013]. 2) You write: "The majority of ‘born OA’ journals and publishers do not request or receive copyright from authors. Instead, publishers are granted non-exclusive rights to publish, and copyright is retained by authors through a Creative Commons license (typically CC-BY)." When an author signs a non-exclusive agreement with a publisher, copyright is retained by the author by virtue of copyright law, not by virtue of a Creative Commons licence. However, users of the research may engage with it by virtue of a Creative Commons licence. Is this what you mean? Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Discussion is closed on this version, please comment on the latest version above. Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 11 Apr 2016 Discussion is closed on this version, please comment on the latest version above. Author Response 09 May 2016 Jon Tennant , Imperial College London, London, UK 09 May 2016 Author Response Thank you for the additions to the discussion. We agree that econometric studies can also be subject to debate and are interested in hearing what you think might be problematic ... Continue reading Thank you for the additions to the discussion. We agree that econometric studies can also be subject to debate and are interested in hearing what you think might be problematic about them. Additionally, in this article we only wanted to stress that the APC model does not necessarily destroy all business and that it does seem to work for some journals/publishers. Nonetheless, you raise a valid point and we will stress in the revised version of the article that not all OA models necessarily sustain the current ecosystem. The discussion you raise about the level of APCs and the necessity of journals as publishing systems are interesting, and we fully agree that they are relevant to the question whether journals survive. We will add this remark, but refrain from providing an answer to these issues, because they are normative and hence do not fit in the scope of this review. Thank you for the additions to the discussion. We agree that econometric studies can also be subject to debate and are interested in hearing what you think might be problematic about them. Additionally, in this article we only wanted to stress that the APC model does not necessarily destroy all business and that it does seem to work for some journals/publishers. Nonetheless, you raise a valid point and we will stress in the revised version of the article that not all OA models necessarily sustain the current ecosystem. The discussion you raise about the level of APCs and the necessity of journals as publishing systems are interesting, and we fully agree that they are relevant to the question whether journals survive. We will add this remark, but refrain from providing an answer to these issues, because they are normative and hence do not fit in the scope of this review. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 03 May 2016 David Wojick , David E. Wojick Associates, USA 03 May 2016 Reader Comment I am impressed by your authors' detailed response, Jon, but hardly convinced. In particular, I do not regard speculative econometric studies of possibilities as strong evidence. However, I cannot respond ... Continue reading I am impressed by your authors' detailed response, Jon, but hardly convinced. In particular, I do not regard speculative econometric studies of possibilities as strong evidence. However, I cannot respond to all of this (unless a small grant comes from somewhere). So just to pick a point, you say "The comment that APCs will be unable to sustain the current journal ecosystem is also not supported by current evidence." That is not what I said. My point is that there are several obvious reasons why APCs might not sustain the current journal ecosystem, not that they will not , as your authors claim. (We are talking about possibilities here, not making predictions. At least I am not and I hope you are not.) The first reason is that switching the journal ecosystem to APCs requires massive systematic changes by millions of people and thousands of institutions. This is unlikely to occur, to say the least. Other scenarios are at least equally possible and these need to be considered. One cannot just say that since the money is there now nothing is going to change, which is essentially what these macroeconomic studies are saying. That is not how the world works. But the second reason is far stronger. There is a large OA constituency that advocates the transition to a low APC model. Something on the order of a few hundred dollars an article, or less, compared to the thousands of dollars per article funding the present ecosystem. Clearly it is impossible to cut revenue by an order of magnitude and maintain the same ecosystem. The study we need to see goes like this. Take a typical scholarly society, or a commercial publisher, and look at how it spends its journal revenue. Then cut that revenue by 90% and ask what goes away? Then estimate the academic, economic and social disbenefits of that loss of revenue. Do this for a variety of cases then project the results to the entire journal ecosystem. Perhaps the authors do not consider the loss of jobs to be an adverse economic impact, although public policy analysis does. The deeper question is what value those labors provide, that is then lost? When I see such studies I will begin to believe that a balance has been struck in the OA discourse. On the green side there have probably been few subscription losses to date simply because the repository system is a disjointed mess. But surely you do not deny that if everything were freely available then no one would subscribe. Immediate deposit per se is self defeating. It can only be used to force the journals into the APC model. Embargoed access is far more difficult to assess. I have made a beginning here: https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2014/01/07/estimating-the-adverse-economic-impact-of-imposed-embargoes/ . My basic point is that if there are going to be journals then someone has to pay for them. If we pay less we will get less. But note that there is another OA constituency that says that we do not need journals. They advocate simple author posting and post-posting review via comments. I hope your authors do not consider this no journal scenario to be "sustaining the current journal ecosystem," which no longer exists. As I have said repeatedly, your authors are glossing over the vast differences between the various OA models being proposed and the disbenefits each model entails. I am impressed by your authors' detailed response, Jon, but hardly convinced. In particular, I do not regard speculative econometric studies of possibilities as strong evidence. However, I cannot respond to all of this (unless a small grant comes from somewhere). So just to pick a point, you say "The comment that APCs will be unable to sustain the current journal ecosystem is also not supported by current evidence." That is not what I said. My point is that there are several obvious reasons why APCs might not sustain the current journal ecosystem, not that they will not , as your authors claim. (We are talking about possibilities here, not making predictions. At least I am not and I hope you are not.) The first reason is that switching the journal ecosystem to APCs requires massive systematic changes by millions of people and thousands of institutions. This is unlikely to occur, to say the least. Other scenarios are at least equally possible and these need to be considered. One cannot just say that since the money is there now nothing is going to change, which is essentially what these macroeconomic studies are saying. That is not how the world works. But the second reason is far stronger. There is a large OA constituency that advocates the transition to a low APC model. Something on the order of a few hundred dollars an article, or less, compared to the thousands of dollars per article funding the present ecosystem. Clearly it is impossible to cut revenue by an order of magnitude and maintain the same ecosystem. The study we need to see goes like this. Take a typical scholarly society, or a commercial publisher, and look at how it spends its journal revenue. Then cut that revenue by 90% and ask what goes away? Then estimate the academic, economic and social disbenefits of that loss of revenue. Do this for a variety of cases then project the results to the entire journal ecosystem. Perhaps the authors do not consider the loss of jobs to be an adverse economic impact, although public policy analysis does. The deeper question is what value those labors provide, that is then lost? When I see such studies I will begin to believe that a balance has been struck in the OA discourse. On the green side there have probably been few subscription losses to date simply because the repository system is a disjointed mess. But surely you do not deny that if everything were freely available then no one would subscribe. Immediate deposit per se is self defeating. It can only be used to force the journals into the APC model. Embargoed access is far more difficult to assess. I have made a beginning here: https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2014/01/07/estimating-the-adverse-economic-impact-of-imposed-embargoes/ . My basic point is that if there are going to be journals then someone has to pay for them. If we pay less we will get less. But note that there is another OA constituency that says that we do not need journals. They advocate simple author posting and post-posting review via comments. I hope your authors do not consider this no journal scenario to be "sustaining the current journal ecosystem," which no longer exists. As I have said repeatedly, your authors are glossing over the vast differences between the various OA models being proposed and the disbenefits each model entails. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Author Response 27 Apr 2016 Jon Tennant , Imperial College London, London, UK 27 Apr 2016 Author Response Dear David, Many thanks for taking the time to provide an extended comment, we, the collective authors, appreciate it. Below, we provide our response to the points raised. The link to the ... Continue reading Dear David, Many thanks for taking the time to provide an extended comment, we, the collective authors, appreciate it. Below, we provide our response to the points raised. The link to the Wellcome Trust blog post can be found here: https://blog.wellcome.ac.uk/2016/03/23/wellcome-trust-and-coaf-open-access-spend-2014-15/ - we will amend this in our future revision of this MS. Thank you for pointing out the phraseology of the sub-headings. We agree with you that this does appear to inflict bias on our MS, and is a hangover from a previous draft of this review. We will amend this in the next version to more accurately reflect the content of the MS, and also incorporate the comments from the referee reports, especially that of Paige Brown Jarreau, into this. You indicate that an “obvious adverse impact is the loss of subscription revenue” regarding green open access. We comment upon this in the first paragraph of the paper: “Some publishers require an embargo period before deposit in public repositories is allowed. These embargoes are applied in order to avoid putative reductions in subscription income due to such self-archiving.” However, empirical evidence fails to support this ‘obvious’ claim, and we refer you to Berners-Lee et al., 2005; Swan, 2005; Henneken et al., 2007, Houghton et al., 2010, Bernius et al., 2013, and the Committee for Economic Development, 2012 ), which all indicate that not only is there no loss of subscription income from green open access, but that both can indeed coexist as a sustainable business model for publishers. Furthermore, there is little evidence to support the commonly held inference that shorter or zero-length embargoes will have a detrimental effect on publisher incomes ( BIS Select Committee report, 2013-14 ; but see also Jubb, 2011). According to the RoMEO journals database, only 13% of journals do not permit immediate self-archiving of either the accepted (60%) or submitted (an extra 27%) versions of articles (as of 2011: https://romeo.jiscinvolve.org/wp/2011/11/24/60-of-journals-allow-immediate-archiving-of-peer-reviewed-articles-but-it-gets-much-much-better/ ), therefore it is unclear why such a widespread practice would exist for journals if it was detrimental to their finances. Indeed, the only case in which there would be a subscription loss would be if there was no value added throughout the publication process subsequent to acceptance of a peer reviewed manuscript, which is clearly not the case. Therefore, there is little empirical evidence that we are aware of to support the ‘obvious adverse impact’ suggested, including loss of functionality for scholarly societies and termination of journals. We will amend the text to clarify this point. The comment that APCs will be unable to sustain the current journal ecosystem is also not supported by current evidence. We refer to the White Paper issued by the Max Planck Society, which provides evidence for a sustainable global switch from subscription to APC-driven open access publishing (Schimmer et al., 2014). We recognise that these are different economic models, but present evidence suggests that the potential disbenefits outlined cannot be supported. The comment that APCs will be taken from research funding, thus reducing the amount of research, is also not strongly supported by current evidence. While we recognise that this is a possibility in some cases, research funders now typically, but not entirely, provide additional funds where OA is required in order to support APCs. The case of the RCUK at a national level in the UK is good evidence to support this ( http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/media/news/121108/ ), as well as funding bodies such as the Wellcome Trust ( http://www.wellcome.ac.uk/about-us/policy/spotlight-issues/Open-access/Guides/wtx036803.htm ). One could could make the simple counter-argument that the amount spent on subscriptions (estimated at €7.6 billion per year) by university libraries and research organizations is much more detrimental in removing income from the research system than the relatively lower amounts currently spent on APCs. We agree with the comment that “ those who cannot afford the APCs will not be able to publish”. We comment on this in the context of the developing world: “The shift from a ‘reader pays’ to an ‘author pays’ model with OA potentially limits its adoption in developing countries. The pay-to-publish system is a potentially greater burden for authors in developed countries, considering that they are not used to pay publication costs, and funding systems for OA are not as well-established as those in the Western world.” , and will revise this statement to indicate that APCs are also often currently unaffordable for researchers beyond the developing country to, to better address your concern. We will furthermore note that many journals also have fee waivers for APCs in place for researchers who cannot afford them, including PeerJ and PLOS ONE (not only researchers from developing countries). These issues were discussed in a recent presentation on the economics of OA by Jeffrey MacKie-Mason (summarized here: http://madlibbing.berkeley.edu/economic-thoughts-about-gold-open-access/ ), which we also plan to incorporate into the MS. This also ties in with the previous comment from Ross Mounce, who suggests that current levels of APCs are not sustainable and can be reduced in order to be more affordable for researchers. We will append the MS accordingly to accommodate this. Regarding the comment about APCs being too low and forcing peer review out, it should be noted that peer reviewers are not typically paid anyway, so it is not clear why would they be forced out if there isn't enough APC funding. Moreover, some OA models (e.g., Collabra) now include optional payment for the reviewers, so from a traditional economic perspective one might argue that reviews in these OA journals would improve. Nonetheless, it is more likely that paid copy editors, formatters, and people devoted to the marketing and management of the journal will be more likely to lose out, which is certainly problematic, but does not involve peer review, and we will stress this point in the next version of the MS. This also relates to the previous comment, including that by Ross Mounce, in which it has been demonstrated that the system is fully functional at much lower APC costs. It should be noted that it is presently unclear in which context “unsustainable” is used: this means very different things to publishers, funders, and researchers, for example. As for the last comment, we have addressed much of these disbenefits in the text already. Others noted are not empirically supported. However, in each instance we will provide additional context, as noted here, to clarify any additional potential disbenefits. This is most clearly the case in the comment that APCs at their current level are unaffordable to many, which we will be sure to comment more upon as a side effect of current OA policies, and also by incorporating information provided by the other commenters and referees. We thank you for your thoughtful and constructive comment, and we will make sure to amend the text appropriately to accommodate your points. References Berners-Lee, Tim, De Roure, Dave, Harnad, Stevan and Shadbolt, Nigel (2005) Journal publishing and author self-archiving: Peaceful Co-Existence and Fruitful Collaboration. Available at: http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/261160/ Bernius, Steffen, et al. "Exploring the effects of a transition to open access: Insights from a simulation study." Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 64.4 (2013): 701-726. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asi.22772/epdf Henneken, Edwin A. et al (2007) E-prints and journal articles in astronomy: a productive co-existence. Learned Publishing 20 (1), 16-22. Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0609126 Houghton, John W., and Charles Oppenheim. "The economic implications of alternative publishing models." Prometheus 28.1 (2010): 41-54. http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/08109021003676359 Jubb, Michael. "Heading for the open road: costs and benefits of transitions in scholarly communications." Liber Quarterly 21.1 (2011): 102-124 Schimmer R, Geschuhn KK, Vogler A: Disrupting the subscription journals’ business model for the necessary large-scale transformation to open access. 2014. Available at: http://pubman.mpdl.mpg.de/pubman/faces/viewItemOverviewPage.jsp?itemId=escidoc:2148961 Swan, Alma (2005) Open access self-archiving: an introduction. Truro: Key Perspectives Ltd. Available at: http://eprints.ecs.soton.ac.uk/11006/01/jiscsum.pdf Dear David, Many thanks for taking the time to provide an extended comment, we, the collective authors, appreciate it. Below, we provide our response to the points raised. The link to the Wellcome Trust blog post can be found here: https://blog.wellcome.ac.uk/2016/03/23/wellcome-trust-and-coaf-open-access-spend-2014-15/ - we will amend this in our future revision of this MS. Thank you for pointing out the phraseology of the sub-headings. We agree with you that this does appear to inflict bias on our MS, and is a hangover from a previous draft of this review. We will amend this in the next version to more accurately reflect the content of the MS, and also incorporate the comments from the referee reports, especially that of Paige Brown Jarreau, into this. You indicate that an “obvious adverse impact is the loss of subscription revenue” regarding green open access. We comment upon this in the first paragraph of the paper: “Some publishers require an embargo period before deposit in public repositories is allowed. These embargoes are applied in order to avoid putative reductions in subscription income due to such self-archiving.” However, empirical evidence fails to support this ‘obvious’ claim, and we refer you to Berners-Lee et al., 2005; Swan, 2005; Henneken et al., 2007, Houghton et al., 2010, Bernius et al., 2013, and the Committee for Economic Development, 2012 ), which all indicate that not only is there no loss of subscription income from green open access, but that both can indeed coexist as a sustainable business model for publishers. Furthermore, there is little evidence to support the commonly held inference that shorter or zero-length embargoes will have a detrimental effect on publisher incomes ( BIS Select Committee report, 2013-14 ; but see also Jubb, 2011). According to the RoMEO journals database, only 13% of journals do not permit immediate self-archiving of either the accepted (60%) or submitted (an extra 27%) versions of articles (as of 2011: https://romeo.jiscinvolve.org/wp/2011/11/24/60-of-journals-allow-immediate-archiving-of-peer-reviewed-articles-but-it-gets-much-much-better/ ), therefore it is unclear why such a widespread practice would exist for journals if it was detrimental to their finances. Indeed, the only case in which there would be a subscription loss would be if there was no value added throughout the publication process subsequent to acceptance of a peer reviewed manuscript, which is clearly not the case. Therefore, there is little empirical evidence that we are aware of to support the ‘obvious adverse impact’ suggested, including loss of functionality for scholarly societies and termination of journals. We will amend the text to clarify this point. The comment that APCs will be unable to sustain the current journal ecosystem is also not supported by current evidence. We refer to the White Paper issued by the Max Planck Society, which provides evidence for a sustainable global switch from subscription to APC-driven open access publishing (Schimmer et al., 2014). We recognise that these are different economic models, but present evidence suggests that the potential disbenefits outlined cannot be supported. The comment that APCs will be taken from research funding, thus reducing the amount of research, is also not strongly supported by current evidence. While we recognise that this is a possibility in some cases, research funders now typically, but not entirely, provide additional funds where OA is required in order to support APCs. The case of the RCUK at a national level in the UK is good evidence to support this ( http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/media/news/121108/ ), as well as funding bodies such as the Wellcome Trust ( http://www.wellcome.ac.uk/about-us/policy/spotlight-issues/Open-access/Guides/wtx036803.htm ). One could could make the simple counter-argument that the amount spent on subscriptions (estimated at €7.6 billion per year) by university libraries and research organizations is much more detrimental in removing income from the research system than the relatively lower amounts currently spent on APCs. We agree with the comment that “ those who cannot afford the APCs will not be able to publish”. We comment on this in the context of the developing world: “The shift from a ‘reader pays’ to an ‘author pays’ model with OA potentially limits its adoption in developing countries. The pay-to-publish system is a potentially greater burden for authors in developed countries, considering that they are not used to pay publication costs, and funding systems for OA are not as well-established as those in the Western world.” , and will revise this statement to indicate that APCs are also often currently unaffordable for researchers beyond the developing country to, to better address your concern. We will furthermore note that many journals also have fee waivers for APCs in place for researchers who cannot afford them, including PeerJ and PLOS ONE (not only researchers from developing countries). These issues were discussed in a recent presentation on the economics of OA by Jeffrey MacKie-Mason (summarized here: http://madlibbing.berkeley.edu/economic-thoughts-about-gold-open-access/ ), which we also plan to incorporate into the MS. This also ties in with the previous comment from Ross Mounce, who suggests that current levels of APCs are not sustainable and can be reduced in order to be more affordable for researchers. We will append the MS accordingly to accommodate this. Regarding the comment about APCs being too low and forcing peer review out, it should be noted that peer reviewers are not typically paid anyway, so it is not clear why would they be forced out if there isn't enough APC funding. Moreover, some OA models (e.g., Collabra) now include optional payment for the reviewers, so from a traditional economic perspective one might argue that reviews in these OA journals would improve. Nonetheless, it is more likely that paid copy editors, formatters, and people devoted to the marketing and management of the journal will be more likely to lose out, which is certainly problematic, but does not involve peer review, and we will stress this point in the next version of the MS. This also relates to the previous comment, including that by Ross Mounce, in which it has been demonstrated that the system is fully functional at much lower APC costs. It should be noted that it is presently unclear in which context “unsustainable” is used: this means very different things to publishers, funders, and researchers, for example. As for the last comment, we have addressed much of these disbenefits in the text already. Others noted are not empirically supported. However, in each instance we will provide additional context, as noted here, to clarify any additional potential disbenefits. This is most clearly the case in the comment that APCs at their current level are unaffordable to many, which we will be sure to comment more upon as a side effect of current OA policies, and also by incorporating information provided by the other commenters and referees. We thank you for your thoughtful and constructive comment, and we will make sure to amend the text appropriately to accommodate your points. References Berners-Lee, Tim, De Roure, Dave, Harnad, Stevan and Shadbolt, Nigel (2005) Journal publishing and author self-archiving: Peaceful Co-Existence and Fruitful Collaboration. Available at: http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/261160/ Bernius, Steffen, et al. "Exploring the effects of a transition to open access: Insights from a simulation study." Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 64.4 (2013): 701-726. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asi.22772/epdf Henneken, Edwin A. et al (2007) E-prints and journal articles in astronomy: a productive co-existence. Learned Publishing 20 (1), 16-22. Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0609126 Houghton, John W., and Charles Oppenheim. "The economic implications of alternative publishing models." Prometheus 28.1 (2010): 41-54. http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/08109021003676359 Jubb, Michael. "Heading for the open road: costs and benefits of transitions in scholarly communications." Liber Quarterly 21.1 (2011): 102-124 Schimmer R, Geschuhn KK, Vogler A: Disrupting the subscription journals’ business model for the necessary large-scale transformation to open access. 2014. Available at: http://pubman.mpdl.mpg.de/pubman/faces/viewItemOverviewPage.jsp?itemId=escidoc:2148961 Swan, Alma (2005) Open access self-archiving: an introduction. Truro: Key Perspectives Ltd. Available at: http://eprints.ecs.soton.ac.uk/11006/01/jiscsum.pdf Competing Interests: I am the corresponding author for this paper. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 21 Apr 2016 David Wojick , David E. Wojick Associates, USA 21 Apr 2016 Reader Comment Having been asked by Jon Tennant to provide additional comments regarding the potential disbenefits of OA, here are some. These will also appear as the latest issue of my subscription ... Continue reading Having been asked by Jon Tennant to provide additional comments regarding the potential disbenefits of OA, here are some. These will also appear as the latest issue of my subscription newsletter Inside Public Access . Green OA The most extreme form of green OA is immediate deposit of the article in a repository. Here the obvious adverse impact is the loss of subscription revenue. The more widespread and discoverable this deposit practice becomes the more subscriptions will be canceled. Basic economics says that one cannot sell what is available for free. Many OA advocates want subscriptions to end so they may not see this as an adverse impact, but it certainly is from a public policy point of view. The loss of revenue is the very definition of adverse economic impact. The loss of revenue readily translates into adverse academic and societal impacts, especially when this loss is sustained by a scholarly society. Societies use subscription revenue to conduct various activities that benefit their members directly and society indirectly thereby. In the extreme case, which might be common, loss of revenue might lead to the termination of the very journals that OA seeks to provide access to. Here the academic and societal disbenefit is loss of the journal, making OA self defeating. Transition to APC gold OA OA advocates often argue that loss of subscription revenue will not lead to a loss of journals because the journals will simply transition to an author pays (APC) business model. But this transition is difficult and expensive, so some journals may not make it. Moreover, those that do may not attract the APC revenue needed to continue. In fact there is no a priori reason to think that a system of all APC journals will duplicate and sustain the present system of subscription journals. The present system is based on libraries buying journals for large numbers of researchers. The APC system is based on individuals paying to be published. These are fundamentally different economic models. The all APC system might well turn out to be much smaller than the subscription system. If so then the disbenefits will flow from the loss of a significant number of journals. Both recognition and communication might be greatly reduced in an all APC world. Moreover, even if this does not happen, the APC funds are taken from research funding, thereby reducing the amount of research. Also, those who cannot afford the APCs will not be able to publish, further reducing both communication and recognition. There is also the very real danger that funders will force APCs down to an unsustainable level. Peer review could be forced out, thereby reducing quality, or journals terminated altogether, if APC limits are set too low. In fact the use of mandates to get OA has the potential adverse effect of turning scholarly publishing into a regulatory regime. In particular, de facto government control of who gets to publish, and where, is fraught with danger. Most published research is funded by governments and lowering allowable APCs is politically attractive (as is shortening green embargo periods). All of these potential adverse impacts of OA are well known. Some are obvious. If the Tennant et all article aims to be an balanced account of the impact of OA then it should include the recognition of these possible disbenefits, in at least as much detail as is given to the possible benefits. Either that or re-title their article to make clear that they are only considering the potential benefits of OA, not including the disbenefits. Having been asked by Jon Tennant to provide additional comments regarding the potential disbenefits of OA, here are some. These will also appear as the latest issue of my subscription newsletter Inside Public Access . Green OA The most extreme form of green OA is immediate deposit of the article in a repository. Here the obvious adverse impact is the loss of subscription revenue. The more widespread and discoverable this deposit practice becomes the more subscriptions will be canceled. Basic economics says that one cannot sell what is available for free. Many OA advocates want subscriptions to end so they may not see this as an adverse impact, but it certainly is from a public policy point of view. The loss of revenue is the very definition of adverse economic impact. The loss of revenue readily translates into adverse academic and societal impacts, especially when this loss is sustained by a scholarly society. Societies use subscription revenue to conduct various activities that benefit their members directly and society indirectly thereby. In the extreme case, which might be common, loss of revenue might lead to the termination of the very journals that OA seeks to provide access to. Here the academic and societal disbenefit is loss of the journal, making OA self defeating. Transition to APC gold OA OA advocates often argue that loss of subscription revenue will not lead to a loss of journals because the journals will simply transition to an author pays (APC) business model. But this transition is difficult and expensive, so some journals may not make it. Moreover, those that do may not attract the APC revenue needed to continue. In fact there is no a priori reason to think that a system of all APC journals will duplicate and sustain the present system of subscription journals. The present system is based on libraries buying journals for large numbers of researchers. The APC system is based on individuals paying to be published. These are fundamentally different economic models. The all APC system might well turn out to be much smaller than the subscription system. If so then the disbenefits will flow from the loss of a significant number of journals. Both recognition and communication might be greatly reduced in an all APC world. Moreover, even if this does not happen, the APC funds are taken from research funding, thereby reducing the amount of research. Also, those who cannot afford the APCs will not be able to publish, further reducing both communication and recognition. There is also the very real danger that funders will force APCs down to an unsustainable level. Peer review could be forced out, thereby reducing quality, or journals terminated altogether, if APC limits are set too low. In fact the use of mandates to get OA has the potential adverse effect of turning scholarly publishing into a regulatory regime. In particular, de facto government control of who gets to publish, and where, is fraught with danger. Most published research is funded by governments and lowering allowable APCs is politically attractive (as is shortening green embargo periods). All of these potential adverse impacts of OA are well known. Some are obvious. If the Tennant et all article aims to be an balanced account of the impact of OA then it should include the recognition of these possible disbenefits, in at least as much detail as is given to the possible benefits. Either that or re-title their article to make clear that they are only considering the potential benefits of OA, not including the disbenefits. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Author Response 18 Apr 2016 Jon Tennant , Imperial College London, London, UK 18 Apr 2016 Author Response Dear David, Many thanks for your comment. In the revised version of this article, we will pay extra attention to the language used, in particular with the headings to address potential ... Continue reading Dear David, Many thanks for your comment. In the revised version of this article, we will pay extra attention to the language used, in particular with the headings to address potential issues with objectivity. While we were careful to provide a balanced argument, and provide numerous references to support these, it is possible of course that we have missed some key studies or counter points. Based on your comments, we would greatly appreciate any insight or links to the proposed counter-arguments so that we can strengthen the discussion throughout the paper. Best, Jon Dear David, Many thanks for your comment. In the revised version of this article, we will pay extra attention to the language used, in particular with the headings to address potential issues with objectivity. While we were careful to provide a balanced argument, and provide numerous references to support these, it is possible of course that we have missed some key studies or counter points. Based on your comments, we would greatly appreciate any insight or links to the proposed counter-arguments so that we can strengthen the discussion throughout the paper. Best, Jon Competing Interests: I am the corresponding author for the paper. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 18 Apr 2016 David Wojick , David E. Wojick Associates, USA 18 Apr 2016 Reader Comment This single sentence on hybrid models seems dismissive and the link seems not to work: "The motivation behind this could come from the currently available data that suggests that hybrid publishing ... Continue reading This single sentence on hybrid models seems dismissive and the link seems not to work: "The motivation behind this could come from the currently available data that suggests that hybrid publishing options offered by traditional publishers, while being of higher cost, provide a much lower overall quality publishing process ( blog.wellcome.ac.uk/ 2016/03/23/wellcome-trust-and-coaf-openaccess- spend-2014-15/ )." The hybrid model is an obvious transition route to widespread no-embargo OA, probably the most feasible and possibly the only feasible route. This single sentence on hybrid models seems dismissive and the link seems not to work: "The motivation behind this could come from the currently available data that suggests that hybrid publishing options offered by traditional publishers, while being of higher cost, provide a much lower overall quality publishing process ( blog.wellcome.ac.uk/ 2016/03/23/wellcome-trust-and-coaf-openaccess- spend-2014-15/ )." The hybrid model is an obvious transition route to widespread no-embargo OA, probably the most feasible and possibly the only feasible route. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 18 Apr 2016 David Wojick , David E. Wojick Associates, USA 18 Apr 2016 Reader Comment The repeated use of the phrase "the .... Case for OA" indicates that this is an OA advocacy document. As such it is an excellent review of the various arguments ... Continue reading The repeated use of the phrase "the .... Case for OA" indicates that this is an OA advocacy document. As such it is an excellent review of the various arguments for OA. The title should be something like "A Review of the Case for OA." But it is most certainly not a review of the academic, economic and societal impacts of OA, because there is no discussion of the various potential adverse impacts. Every argument presented has well known counter arguments based on adverse impacts. None of these counter arguments are mentioned, except the fact that significant APCs will make it harder for researchers in developing countries to publish. Thus the review is almost completely one-sided. Another problem is that both the benefits and disbenefits of OA are highly sensitive to the model used to get it. This is not discussed, so the false impression may be given that all of these benefits will flow from every model. In some cases the benefits may be slight. Where they are potentially large the disbenefits may well be larger. As an independent issue analyst who has studied this issue for years I have no competing interest. See https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/author/dwojick/ . The repeated use of the phrase "the .... Case for OA" indicates that this is an OA advocacy document. As such it is an excellent review of the various arguments for OA. The title should be something like "A Review of the Case for OA." But it is most certainly not a review of the academic, economic and societal impacts of OA, because there is no discussion of the various potential adverse impacts. Every argument presented has well known counter arguments based on adverse impacts. None of these counter arguments are mentioned, except the fact that significant APCs will make it harder for researchers in developing countries to publish. Thus the review is almost completely one-sided. Another problem is that both the benefits and disbenefits of OA are highly sensitive to the model used to get it. This is not discussed, so the false impression may be given that all of these benefits will flow from every model. In some cases the benefits may be slight. Where they are potentially large the disbenefits may well be larger. As an independent issue analyst who has studied this issue for years I have no competing interest. See https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/author/dwojick/ . Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 14 Apr 2016 Anna Sharman , Cofactor Ltd, UK 14 Apr 2016 Reader Comment This is a really great review - balanced and informative. I learnt a lot from it despite being relatively well informed in this area. I will be recommending it as ... Continue reading This is a really great review - balanced and informative. I learnt a lot from it despite being relatively well informed in this area. I will be recommending it as a resource on open access. A few small improvements could be made: 2nd paragraph: "A core issue remains: universal or even marginal access to ~75% of articles is not directly possible unless one is in a privileged position to work at an institute which has subscription access to a portion of these articles." - might it be worth mentioning the unlikely alternative, which is that someone has the budget to pay to buy access to all articles they require on a per-article basis? If so, include the fact that not all journals have a per-article price, and of course that these prices add up very quickly so are unrealistic for all but occasional uses. Predatory publishers section: I agree with Ross Mounce that the sentence "Predatory publishers tend to charge low publication fees" could be misleadingly read as suggesting that this is a criterion on which publishers can be judged as predatory or not. Some clarification should be provided here. I also suggest expanding on "not all scholars and advocates agree with the criteria proposed by Jeffrey Beall" - can you provide a link or two to criticisms of his criteria and of his views on open access? Figure 1: I found the "Ratio of the cumulative sum" hard to grasp - is there perhaps a more straightforward way of illustrating this point? Or could it be explained more clearly? The following are small suggestions for improving wording: 1st paragraph: "OA pertains only to documents made available via two main pathways" - delete 'only' as it contradicts 'main'. Societal impact section: "Mohammadi et al. (2015) found that the number Mendeley readers" should be "Mohammadi et al. (2015) found that the number of Mendeley readers" This is a really great review - balanced and informative. I learnt a lot from it despite being relatively well informed in this area. I will be recommending it as a resource on open access. A few small improvements could be made: 2nd paragraph: "A core issue remains: universal or even marginal access to ~75% of articles is not directly possible unless one is in a privileged position to work at an institute which has subscription access to a portion of these articles." - might it be worth mentioning the unlikely alternative, which is that someone has the budget to pay to buy access to all articles they require on a per-article basis? If so, include the fact that not all journals have a per-article price, and of course that these prices add up very quickly so are unrealistic for all but occasional uses. Predatory publishers section: I agree with Ross Mounce that the sentence "Predatory publishers tend to charge low publication fees" could be misleadingly read as suggesting that this is a criterion on which publishers can be judged as predatory or not. Some clarification should be provided here. I also suggest expanding on "not all scholars and advocates agree with the criteria proposed by Jeffrey Beall" - can you provide a link or two to criticisms of his criteria and of his views on open access? Figure 1: I found the "Ratio of the cumulative sum" hard to grasp - is there perhaps a more straightforward way of illustrating this point? Or could it be explained more clearly? The following are small suggestions for improving wording: 1st paragraph: "OA pertains only to documents made available via two main pathways" - delete 'only' as it contradicts 'main'. Societal impact section: "Mohammadi et al. (2015) found that the number Mendeley readers" should be "Mohammadi et al. (2015) found that the number of Mendeley readers" Competing Interests: None. Close Report a concern Author Response 14 Apr 2016 Jon Tennant , Imperial College London, London, UK 14 Apr 2016 Author Response Dear Ross and Philip, Many thanks for these thoughtful and constructive comments. They will be given full consideration, and integrated into the next version of this manuscript pending the organised peer ... Continue reading Dear Ross and Philip, Many thanks for these thoughtful and constructive comments. They will be given full consideration, and integrated into the next version of this manuscript pending the organised peer review process. Best, Jon Dear Ross and Philip, Many thanks for these thoughtful and constructive comments. They will be given full consideration, and integrated into the next version of this manuscript pending the organised peer review process. Best, Jon Competing Interests: I am the corresponding author for this paper. Close Report a concern Reader Comment 14 Apr 2016 Philip Young , Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, USA 14 Apr 2016 Reader Comment Thanks for this great overview of open access. I am already finding many of the arguments and references useful in my own work. In the academic case for OA, I think ... Continue reading Thanks for this great overview of open access. I am already finding many of the arguments and references useful in my own work. In the academic case for OA, I think the case for ordinary academic reuse is understated, particularly in comparison to the extensive description of TDM benefits (which is great). For CC-licensed OA, the everyday decisions about reuse of material in a class, or usage of a figure or passage in a thesis or dissertation are greatly simplified. Arguably this kind of permission-free reuse will benefit more academics than TDM. In Table 1, for 2012 you mention PeerJ's membership model, but they also offer an APC if the authors choose. I realize you are focusing on innovative models, but it may be misleading to suggest this is the only way they receive payment. In the section on text and data mining, I am not sure that your reference to "a robust and developing public domain" is completely correct, since "public domain" has a specific legal meaning- perhaps rephrase as "a robust and developing scholarly ecosystem" or something like that. Also in this sentence, isn't it open licensing rather than shifting copyright to stay with author that makes TDM possible? I have serious reservations about the mention of work made for hire in this section. In the U.S. at least, proposing this would result in a tremendous amount of criticism from faculty groups such as the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) who claim that copyright retention is part of academic freedom (see their statement in this regard here: http://www.aaup.org/report/statement-copyright ). This would also be a problem for faculty who make creative works such as novels, films, artwork, etc. In addition, the argument here is contradicted in the paragraphs above, where you cite that 71% of the research community favors author-retained copyright. It's hard to imagine researchers favoring university-held rather than journal-held copyright. Perhaps faculty could voluntarily grant non-exclusive rights, as for green OA policies, but that is not the same as work for hire. In the discussion of Freedom of Information requests, you could also cite Bergstrom et al. (2014), Evaluating big deal journal bundles, https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1403006111 . In the next paragraph regarding pay-to-publish, it may be worth surfacing how authors pay APCs (Solomon Bjork 2011, http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/asi.21660 see table 4) and the extent to which waivers are available (Lawson 2015, http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/publications3030155 ). I also echo Ross Mounce's comment - someone has suggested “deceptive publishing” instead. Minor issues: Suggest specifying "U.S." before National Institutes of Health question mark after “potential citation rates” Open Journal Systems (OJS) https://pkp.sfu.ca/ojs/ (not Journals System) in the conclusion, "number of policies” (not number policies) Thanks again, great job Thanks for this great overview of open access. I am already finding many of the arguments and references useful in my own work. In the academic case for OA, I think the case for ordinary academic reuse is understated, particularly in comparison to the extensive description of TDM benefits (which is great). For CC-licensed OA, the everyday decisions about reuse of material in a class, or usage of a figure or passage in a thesis or dissertation are greatly simplified. Arguably this kind of permission-free reuse will benefit more academics than TDM. In Table 1, for 2012 you mention PeerJ's membership model, but they also offer an APC if the authors choose. I realize you are focusing on innovative models, but it may be misleading to suggest this is the only way they receive payment. In the section on text and data mining, I am not sure that your reference to "a robust and developing public domain" is completely correct, since "public domain" has a specific legal meaning- perhaps rephrase as "a robust and developing scholarly ecosystem" or something like that. Also in this sentence, isn't it open licensing rather than shifting copyright to stay with author that makes TDM possible? I have serious reservations about the mention of work made for hire in this section. In the U.S. at least, proposing this would result in a tremendous amount of criticism from faculty groups such as the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) who claim that copyright retention is part of academic freedom (see their statement in this regard here: http://www.aaup.org/report/statement-copyright ). This would also be a problem for faculty who make creative works such as novels, films, artwork, etc. In addition, the argument here is contradicted in the paragraphs above, where you cite that 71% of the research community favors author-retained copyright. It's hard to imagine researchers favoring university-held rather than journal-held copyright. Perhaps faculty could voluntarily grant non-exclusive rights, as for green OA policies, but that is not the same as work for hire. In the discussion of Freedom of Information requests, you could also cite Bergstrom et al. (2014), Evaluating big deal journal bundles, https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1403006111 . In the next paragraph regarding pay-to-publish, it may be worth surfacing how authors pay APCs (Solomon Bjork 2011, http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/asi.21660 see table 4) and the extent to which waivers are available (Lawson 2015, http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/publications3030155 ). I also echo Ross Mounce's comment - someone has suggested “deceptive publishing” instead. Minor issues: Suggest specifying "U.S." before National Institutes of Health question mark after “potential citation rates” Open Journal Systems (OJS) https://pkp.sfu.ca/ojs/ (not Journals System) in the conclusion, "number of policies” (not number policies) Thanks again, great job Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Reader Comment 13 Apr 2016 Ross Mounce , University of Cambridge, UK 13 Apr 2016 Reader Comment This is in no way a review of the entire manuscript, I don't have time for that at the moment. This is merely an attempt at constructive criticism of a particular ... Continue reading This is in no way a review of the entire manuscript, I don't have time for that at the moment. This is merely an attempt at constructive criticism of a particular section, namely 'The case for publishers'. Reading the manuscript as it currently is, one might come away from this section thinking that the average published research paper costs $3500–$4000 publish. I do not believe this to be true. For instance, at the Journal of Machine Learning Research (JMLR) it costs between $6.50 and $10 per paper - it is a notably efficient journal with technically competent submitting authors that submit manuscripts in formats that are more immediately publishable (e.g. LaTeX), thus Shieber (2012) absolutely must be cited in any discussion of the cost of publishing. Likewise, another estimate is given by Ubiquity Press: 300 is all they need to sustainable publish manuscripts submitted in less convenient formats (such as MS Word documents), so please do cite: http://www.ubiquitypress.com/site/publish/ too. Scale and 'selectivity' (the arbitrary rejection of signifcant percentage of papers that some journals like impose) are also very important factors in the cost of a particular journal's cost per paper. The high cost at Nature is largely down to the cost of rejecting all those papers, not the cost of the papers they actually end up accepting! You may also want to mention the end-to-end XML based publishing system called ARPHA (Mietchen et al ., 2015) as used by the open access publisher Pensoft and a similar(-ish?) system licensed by River Valley. Adoption of these more efficient, integrated publishing workflows will inevitably bring down the real costs of publishing - it's a madly inefficient workflow at most biology journals at the moment with completely different systems for authoring, peer-review and making the final version / typesetting / proofs. Mike Taylor also has useful information on the real cost of typesetting here: https://svpow.com/2015/06/11/how-much-does-typesetting-cost/ I'm hugely surprised you don't seem to mention the effect of open access journals on decreasing publication delays. That's also a major value-add for most (all?) stakeholders. Daniel Himmelstein's (2015) excellent data blog post showing that newer open access journals like eLife and PeerJ are decreasing the average time between submission and publication - faster publication. Furthermore, journals like F1000Research and Research Ideas and Outcomes ( http://riojournal.com/) and preprint servers are eliminating the delay before submitted manuscripts are made public to zero days. Finally, I'd advise extreme caution in adopting (willingly?) Beall's phrase "predatory publishers". You seem to indicate that if a journal charges a low APC it may be a predatory publisher? Would a solo author article at PeerJ then thus make PeerJ a "predatory publisher"? If you still do insist on including a section on Beall's views (although why? whhyyyyyyy?), please do point out by citation/quotation that he is a controversial figure who thinks (his own words) that "The OA movement is an anti-corporatist movement that wants to deny the freedom of the press to companies it disagrees with". Beall 2013. The Open-Access Movement is Not Really about Open Access . Triple C Shieber 2012. An efficient journal https://blogs.harvard.edu/pamphlet/2012/03/06/an-efficient-journal/ Mietchen D, Mounce R, Penev L (2015) Publishing the research process . Research Ideas and Outcomes 1: e7547. doi: 10.3897/rio.1.e7547 This is in no way a review of the entire manuscript, I don't have time for that at the moment. This is merely an attempt at constructive criticism of a particular section, namely 'The case for publishers'. Reading the manuscript as it currently is, one might come away from this section thinking that the average published research paper costs $3500–$4000 publish. I do not believe this to be true. For instance, at the Journal of Machine Learning Research (JMLR) it costs between $6.50 and $10 per paper - it is a notably efficient journal with technically competent submitting authors that submit manuscripts in formats that are more immediately publishable (e.g. LaTeX), thus Shieber (2012) absolutely must be cited in any discussion of the cost of publishing. Likewise, another estimate is given by Ubiquity Press: 300 is all they need to sustainable publish manuscripts submitted in less convenient formats (such as MS Word documents), so please do cite: http://www.ubiquitypress.com/site/publish/ too. Scale and 'selectivity' (the arbitrary rejection of signifcant percentage of papers that some journals like impose) are also very important factors in the cost of a particular journal's cost per paper. The high cost at Nature is largely down to the cost of rejecting all those papers, not the cost of the papers they actually end up accepting! You may also want to mention the end-to-end XML based publishing system called ARPHA (Mietchen et al ., 2015) as used by the open access publisher Pensoft and a similar(-ish?) system licensed by River Valley. Adoption of these more efficient, integrated publishing workflows will inevitably bring down the real costs of publishing - it's a madly inefficient workflow at most biology journals at the moment with completely different systems for authoring, peer-review and making the final version / typesetting / proofs. Mike Taylor also has useful information on the real cost of typesetting here: https://svpow.com/2015/06/11/how-much-does-typesetting-cost/ I'm hugely surprised you don't seem to mention the effect of open access journals on decreasing publication delays. That's also a major value-add for most (all?) stakeholders. Daniel Himmelstein's (2015) excellent data blog post showing that newer open access journals like eLife and PeerJ are decreasing the average time between submission and publication - faster publication. Furthermore, journals like F1000Research and Research Ideas and Outcomes ( http://riojournal.com/) and preprint servers are eliminating the delay before submitted manuscripts are made public to zero days. Finally, I'd advise extreme caution in adopting (willingly?) Beall's phrase "predatory publishers". You seem to indicate that if a journal charges a low APC it may be a predatory publisher? Would a solo author article at PeerJ then thus make PeerJ a "predatory publisher"? If you still do insist on including a section on Beall's views (although why? whhyyyyyyy?), please do point out by citation/quotation that he is a controversial figure who thinks (his own words) that "The OA movement is an anti-corporatist movement that wants to deny the freedom of the press to companies it disagrees with". Beall 2013. The Open-Access Movement is Not Really about Open Access . Triple C Shieber 2012. An efficient journal https://blogs.harvard.edu/pamphlet/2012/03/06/an-efficient-journal/ Mietchen D, Mounce R, Penev L (2015) Publishing the research process . Research Ideas and Outcomes 1: e7547. doi: 10.3897/rio.1.e7547 Competing Interests: I am one of the founding editors of the open access journal Research Ideas and Outcomes (RIO). I am a Software Sustainability Fellow. I am a Panton Fellow for Open Data in Science I believe open access publishing should be the default I am one of nearly 16,000 academics who publicly boycott Elsevier (http://thecostofknowledge.com/) Close Report a concern Discussion is closed on this version, please comment on the latest version above. keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 4 5 Version 3 (revision) 21 Sep 16 read Version 2 (revision) 09 Jun 16 read read read read Version 1 11 Apr 16 read read read read read Gwilym Lockwood , Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Peter Suber , Harvard University, Cambridge, USA Paige Brown Jarreau , Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, USA Anne Tierney , Edinburgh Napier University, Edinburgh, UK Christopher D. Chambers , Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK Comments on this article All Comments (15) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Suber P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 26 Sep 2016 | for Version 3 Peter Suber , Berkman Center for Internet & Society, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 Suber P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I'm commenting on this sentence from the first paragraph of Version 3 of the article: The Green route is also enabled through author rights retention, in which authors pre-emptively grant non-exclusive rights to their institutions before publishing any works. The institution then has the ability to make articles by these authors OA without seeking permission from the publishers (e.g., this is the case of the Dutch Taverne amendment that has declared self-archival of research after ‘a reasonable period of time’ a legal right ( Open Access NL, 2015 )). ​The authors added the bulk of this at my request in an earlier comment. I'm glad they did, but it's still only partially true. It's true that universities can adopt rights-retention OA policies that make it unnecessary to seek permission from publishers. But it's not true that Dutch Taverne amendment is an example. It's not a university policy, but legislation. It's legislation that gives authors permission for green OA regardless of the contracts they signed, and regardless of the rights they might have retained through a university policy. It's a very good idea and I recommend it everywhere. (There is already a similar law in Germany, and one is now emerging in France.) But what the authors need here is an example of a university rights-retention OA policy, or a thorough explanation of this kind of OA policy. I'm not seeking a citation to my own university's activity, though it adopted the first OA policies of this kind. Nor am I seeking a citation to the good-practices guide that I maintain with Stuart Shieber, though it's the standard reference on this kind of policy. In fact, I was reluctant to follow up the authors' response to my prior suggestion because I didn't want to appear to seek additional citations. But since I've gone this far, I'll mention these two sources anyway: The Harvard open-access policies https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/policies/ ​Good practices for university open-access policies http://bit.ly/goodoa Of the two, I'd recommend the second in this situation. But even if the authors include no citation on this point, at least they should stop citing the Dutch law as an example, and treat it separately as another path to the same goal. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Suber P. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10376.r16583) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v3#referee-response-16583 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Brown Jarreau P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 31 Jul 2017 | for Version 2 Paige Brown Jarreau , Manship School of Mass Communication, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2017 Brown Jarreau P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The topic of this review is important and timely. The paper in its original form feel short of a systematic review of previous research findings related to the impact of open access on scientific publishing, public engagement with science, science literacy and altmetrics. In the latest version, the authors have modified the manuscript language to more carefully navigate any value judgements or arguments related to the case for open access. They have also provided additional evidence-based benefits, drawbacks, and evidence of a lack of significant benefits in some cases. In the latest version of this manuscript, the authors have included more balanced evidence of impacts of open access on the various domains of potential impact they consider in their paper. The evidence presented in the paper is rigorous and detailed, and should provide a basis for further discussion and evidence-based research on the impacts of OA. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Brown Jarreau P. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9609.r24672) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v2#referee-response-24672 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Lockwood G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 25 Aug 2016 | for Version 2 Gwilym Lockwood , Neurobiology of Language Department, Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands 0 Views copyright © 2016 Lockwood G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I have no further comments; my points or concerns have been addressed, and other issues are highlighted in further depth by other reviewers. Competing Interests Since I submitted my first review, I have been commissioned by Altmetric to write blogs using their data. However, all my reviewing was done before knowing about this opportunity, and so my original comments on the alternative metrics section were therefore unaffected. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Lockwood G. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9609.r14274) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v2#referee-response-14274 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Suber P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 27 Jun 2016 | for Version 2 Peter Suber , Berkman Center for Internet & Society, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 Suber P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In the first version I reviewed, you said, "This [green] route is dependent on journal or publisher policies on self-archiving (sherpa.ac.uk/romeo)." That was untrue or incomplete and I offered this comment: It overlooks rights retention. Some individual authors retain enough rights to authorize green OA on their own. While this may be fairly rare, rights-retention OA policies at universities are increasingly common. More than 80 institutions in North America, Europe, Africa, and Asia have now adopted rights-retention OA policies. Under these policies, the faculty grant non-exclusive rights to their institution before they sign future publishing contracts. The institution then has permission to make those future articles OA without having to seek permission from publishers. (The institutions also grant the same non-exclusive rights back to authors.) For more detail on rights-retention OA policies, see Stuart Shieber and Peter Suber, "Good Practices for University OA Policies." http://bit.ly/goodoa You revised the text in a way that missed my point and misstated my position: "While academics themselves may have little power in debates regarding copyright, institutes could claim ownership of the work they likely already own by invoking their rights under the work made-for-hire doctrine (Denicola, 2006). However, it is difficult to imagine researchers favoring university-held rather than journal-held copyright, and a system of non-exclusive rights is preferred, as is reflected in OA policies and OA journals (Suber, 2012)." Here's the main point: More than 80 universities around the world have adopted rights-retention OA policies. These policies are adopted by faculty votes, not administrative edicts. At these institutions the rights needed to authorize OA are not seized from faculty by the institution, or claimed by the institution through work-for-hire. These policies presuppose that the rights initially belong to faculty, not the institution. If the institution is to exercise them, faculty must voluntarily grant them. (There are details we needn't go into here, for example, that we're only talking about non-exclusive rights, and that these policies generally include waiver options when faculty don't want the institution to have rights to a given work.) At Harvard, which pioneered this type of policy, four of the school-level votes were unanimous. In short, it's not at all "difficult to imagine researchers favoring university-held...copyright." On the contrary, it's easy to imagine and widely attested. Green OA does not always depend on permission from publishers. Increasingly it depends on rights retention by authors, through carefully drafted and widely supported university policies. That's a fact. My opinion is that that's a good thing. You needn't share my opinion, and needn't mention the fact. But please don't misrepresent the fact or reverse my opinion. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Suber P. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9609.r14275) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v2#referee-response-14275 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Chambers C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 10 Jun 2016 | for Version 2 Christopher D. Chambers , School of Psychology, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK 0 Views copyright © 2016 Chambers C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions All my suggestions have been addressed. I'm very happy approve this interesting and useful addition to the literature. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Chambers CD. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9609.r14273) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v2#referee-response-14273 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Chambers C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 28 Apr 2016 | for Version 1 Christopher D. Chambers , School of Psychology, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK 0 Views copyright © 2016 Chambers C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (2) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Tennant et al offer a timely and insightful review of the various effects of open access publishing on science and society. The paper is well structured and enjoyable to read. Although I am not an expert on open access publishing, I also found the discussion of the literature quite balanced and evidence-based. I have just three recommendations for revisions: In the discussion of the OA citation advantage (which is excellent), the authors are very careful to avoid asserting a causal link between the OA status of a paper and the number of citations it generates. However, in my view, the conclusion of the Gargouri (2010) paper should be caveated. While the results of Gargouri are consistent with the absence of a self-selection bias in producing the OA advantage, they cannot rule it out. It might be the case that funders or institutions that mandate OA are also those that are more likely to support/host higher impact research. Furthermore, given that OA mandates are never 100% effective, perhaps authors are more likely to comply with a mandate for work they perceive to be of high impact. A useful addition to this section would be specify the conditions under which we could determine whether or not OA causally influences citations. This would require a randomised controlled trial in which articles are randomly are assigned to OA and non-OA routes. To my knowledge, no such a trial has yet been undertaken, although the authors will be in a more informed position to know whether this is the case. There is not much discussion in the paper of the distinction between full OA and hybrid OA. Given that the APCs for hybrid OA articles tend to be substantially higher than those for full OA articles, this may warrant more prominent coverage in the economic case for OA. It is also relevant to the brief mention of the Finch Report, which (controversially) favours gold OA (including the hybrid route) over green OA. I was glad to see the link formed between OA and open science more generally, as many researchers and advocates draw a distinct (and somewhat arbitrary) line between these initiatives. In this context, it would perhaps be relevant to mention the TOP guidelines ( https://cos.io/top/ ). TOP is very much an evolving entity so it would be interesting to consider the inclusion of an OA standard in future revisons of TOP. Minor p13 This sentence is difficult to parse: "Whereas this is hyper-variable, and strongly dependent on a range of factors, it is the fact that any public interest in science that is of importance." Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (2) Reader Comment 03 May 2016 David Wojick, David E. Wojick Associates, USA Chris, given my comments below about how one-sided this article is, in favor of OA, I am curious as to how you think it is balanced? Balanced in what respect? View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern Reader Comment 01 Aug 2016 Charles Oppenheim, Retired, UK David, in view of your well-known antipathy to OA, don't you think you should have declared your competing interest? View more View less Competing Interests I am in favour of OA reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Chambers CD. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13295) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13295 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Tierney A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 25 Apr 2016 | for Version 1 Anne Tierney , Department of Learning and Teaching Enhancement, Edinburgh Napier University, Edinburgh, UK 0 Views copyright © 2016 Tierney A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This paper is a comprehensive review of the complexities of OA. I have come late to the discussion on this paper, and I find that the previous reviewers have been meticulous in their critique of the paper, to the point I have very little to add. However, there are a couple of points for consideration. What is the effect (if any) of the UK Research Excellence Framework on Open Access? To what extent is disciplinarity a factor in Open Access? I ask this question because of the high impact of the sciences and biomedical research, but wonder about Arts and Humanities (and other areas) as a comparision. As one of the other reviewers said, "this doesn't consider the fact that the prestige of some journals is advertising in and of itself." While this is true of scientific journals, the same can't be said, for example, of education journals, so there is a lack of parity between disciplines. There was also an assumption of the willingness of reviewers to continue to offer their services freely. This aspect of OA (and subscription-based) publishing is hardly ever critiqued, but it assumed to be part of the process. All in all, this paper gives a lot of food for thought. I don't expect a rewrite of the paper, based on my comments, but I would welcome further discussion on where the authors (and readers) see OA going in the future. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Tierney A. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13292) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13292 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Brown Jarreau P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 22 Apr 2016 | for Version 1 Paige Brown Jarreau , Manship School of Mass Communication, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 Brown Jarreau P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This is an interesting and timely review of the issue of open access to scientific literature. The two other reviewers have highlighted specific issues that should be addressed in the revision of this article, and I agree with these issues. I've added other notes below. I think this review article would benefit from a re-write to correct potentially biased language in support of open access and to round out the review with further evidence of open access impacts on citation rates, altmetrics, scientific literacy / public engagement and research quality. Notes: The authors cite “fostering a culture of greater scientific literacy” as a benefit of open access. While this is theoretically a benefit, has more or less open access in particular scientific fields been tied to greater or lesser scientific literacy in those areas? Is this potential benefit supported by research literature? The authors should be clear on what the evidence-based benefits of open access are, and also what the potential drawbacks are. References to related research should be provided on this topic. The structure the authors use for laying out their evidence and the language they use (e.g. “[the] case for Open Access” ) appear to lean more toward the positive impacts / benefits of open access from the outset. The authors should be very careful to review the evidence first before making value-based statements or arguments about open access, even if the evidence-based benefits outweigh any potential drawbacks, or lack of significant benefits, in the end. Correct the typo in the following sentence: “[In] A longitudinal study Eysenbach (2006) compared…” The authors write: “One alternative explanation for the citation advantage could be that researchers choose to publish OA when a finding is more impactful, but empirical evidence contradicts this selection effect. Gargouri et al. (2010) compared citation counts within a cohort of OA articles that had either been self-selected as OA or mandated as OA (e.g., by funders). The study concluded that both were cited significantly more than non-OA articles. As such, these findings rule out a selection bias from authors as the cause for the citation advantage (Gargouri et al., 2010).” However, couldn’t funded research also have a tendency to be considered “more impactful,” because it was chosen in the first place to be funded and mandated as OA? The authors should discuss this, and whether there is any research that experimentally investigates whether open access provides a citation advantage. This could perhaps be suggested as future research. The authors should also discuss how/why some studies have found no citation advantage for OA papers. Related to social media mentions of research papers and citation counts, the authors might also consider citing Liang, X., Su, L. Y. F., Yeo, S. K., Scheufele, D. A., Brossard, D., Xenos, M., ... Corley, E. A. (2014). Building Buzz (Scientists) Communicating Science in New Media Environments. Journalism Mass Communication Quarterly , 1077699014550092. [ PDF ] In discussing the economics of OA, the authors should also discuss any evidence of potential drawbacks for various stakeholders, such as where funds for pay-to-publish fees will come from and how these fees may affect individual researchers. Pay-to-publish models of OA may also burden early career researchers and researchers working in fields where research grants are more difficult to obtain. The authors do not discuss the potential impact of OA on research quality or reproducibility (reproducibility is only mentioned in the context of open data). As this has been a controversial issue in the past (e.g. the mentioned 'sting' operations) the authors should discuss any research that has investigated the impact of open access on the rigor of peer reviews, research quality, presence of replication studies / reproducibility, etc. There has also been some discussion of whether open peer review (like that used by F1000Research) affects the quality of reviews, e.g. (Rooyen et al. 1999). The authors should mention this and/or subsequent literature when addressing open peer review. There have also been studies on scientists' / journal article authors' perceptions and attitudes toward open access, e.g. Schroter and Tite (2005; 2006). The authors might considering summarizing some of this research, as it gives context to some of the existing barriers to open access and perceived drawbacks among researchers. Summary: In summary, the topic of this review is important and timely. However, this paper falls short of what I would expect from a systematic review in terms of systematically summarizing previous research findings related to the impact of open access on scientific publishing, public engagement with science, science literacy and altmetrics. The authors should be careful to hold back value judgements / arguments related to the case for open access until having systemically reviewed the evidence-based benefits, drawbacks, and/or lack of significant benefits. The authors should also provide some discussion of how we might objectively weigh any evidence-based benefits with potential drawbacks for various stakeholders including researchers and especially early career researchers. The authors should avoid summarizing mostly the findings of previous studies that find positive impacts of open access on the various domains of potential impact they consider in their paper. The evidence already presented in the paper is rigorous and detailed. However, I would recommend a revision that rounds this review out with more systematic evidence. References 1. Liang X, Su L, Yeo S, Scheufele D, et al.: Building Buzz: (Scientists) Communicating Science in New Media Environments. Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly . 2014; 91 (4): 772-791 Publisher Full Text 2. van Rooyen S, Godlee F, Evans S, Black N, et al.: Effect of open peer review on quality of reviews and on reviewers' recommendations: a randomised trial. BMJ . 1999; 318 (7175): 23-27 Publisher Full Text 3. Schroter S, Tite L, Smith R: Perceptions of open access publishing: interviews with journal authors. BMJ . 2005; 330 (7494): 756 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Schroter S, Tite L: Open access publishing and author-pays business models: a survey of authors' knowledge and perceptions. J R Soc Med . 2006; 99 (3): 141-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Brown Jarreau P. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13291) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13291 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Suber P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 18 Apr 2016 | for Version 1 Peter Suber , Berkman Center for Internet & Society, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 Suber P. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (4) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The article is very well-done, unusually thorough and detailed. Here are a few ways to improve it. When I refer to page numbers, I mean the page numbers in the PDF of v1, April 11, 2016. http://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1 "You" refers to the authors. Apologies in advance if I sometimes cite my own work in these comments. p. 1. In the abstract you say, "The economic case for Open Access is less well-understood, although it is clear that access to the research literature is key for innovative enterprises, and a range of governmental and non-governmental services." This understates the economic case. For example, some subscription journals convert to OA precisely for economic benefits. See the preliminary version of David Solomon, Bo-Christer Bjrk, and Mikael Laakso, "Converting Scholarly Journals to Open Access: A Review of Approaches and Experiences" now open for public comment. (The final version will be published this summer.) https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/programs/journal-flipping/public-consultation/ See especially section 4.6, "Increased revenue and financial viability." https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/programs/journal-flipping/public-consultation/4/6/ p. 3. You say, "The Green route refers to author self-archiving, in which a version of the peer-reviewed article is posted online to a repository or website." Green OA also applies to preprints, which are not peer-reviewed. p. 3. You say, "This [green] route is dependent on journal or publisher policies on self-archiving ( sherpa.ac.uk/romeo) ." This is importantly incomplete. It overlooks rights retention. Some individual authors retain enough rights to authorize green OA on their own. While this may be fairly rare, rights-retention OA policies at universities are increasingly common. More than 80 institutions in North America, Europe, Africa, and Asia have now adopted rights-retention OA policies. Under these policies, the faculty grant non-exclusive rights to their institution before they sign future publishing contracts. The institution then has permission to make those future articles OA without having to seek permission from publishers. (The institutions also grant the same non-exclusive rights back to authors.) For more detail on rights-retention OA policies, see Stuart Shieber and Peter Suber, "Good Practices for University OA Policies." http://bit.ly/goodoa p. 3. You say, "A subscription to all peer-reviewed journals is not affordable for any single individual, research institute or university (Odlyzko, 2006)." This is true and important, but it's a pity you don't cite more recent evidence than 2006. An important kind of evidence for this proposition is that not even Harvard University can afford all the journals needed by its faculty and students, and must cancel journals every year for budgetary reasons alone. I've collected seven public statements from Harvard to this effect (2008-2012) in the supplements to p. 30 of my 2012 book (Open Access, MIT Press, 2012). http://bit.ly/oa-book#p30.2 p. 3. You say, "Much of the driving force behind this global change has been through a combination of direct, grassroots advocacy initiatives in conjunction with policy changes from funders and governments." Please add *university policies* to this list. They're on a par with funder policies in importance, and they're far more numerous. ROARMAP shows that 7+ times more universities have OA policies than funders. p. 3. You say, "The Open Access movement is intrinsically tied to the development of the Internet and how it redefined communication and publishing (Laakso et al., 2011)." For more documentation on how the OA movement arose as soon as the internet arose, see my Timeline of the Open Access Movement. http://legacy.earlham.edu/~peters/fos/timeline.htm In 2009, I moved the timeline to the Open Access Directory wiki, and you should probably cite that version: Timeline of the open access movement... http://oad.simmons.edu/oadwiki/Timeline ...especially subsection on developments before 2000. http://oad.simmons.edu/oadwiki/Timeline_before_2000 (You might cite this timeline again on p. 5, when you introduce your own timeline.) p. 3. You say, "One result of the growing OA movement is the rise of OA-only publishers...." Somewhere in this paragraph, I'd mention that some OA publishers are for-profit (e.g. BMC) and some are non-profit (e.g. PLoS). p. 4. Your section on the impact advantage is very well-done. Most treatments are much briefer, less careful, and less detailed than yours. I have just these suggestions. You cite authors of individual studies, and Alma Swan's 2010 literature review. But you don't cite the mother lode of literature on this topic: Steve Hitchcock's annotated bibliography, "The effect of open access and downloads ('hits') on citation impact: a bibliography of studies." http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/354006/1/oacitation-biblio-snapshot0613.html Or more precisely, you cite it once, 10 paragraphs before the section on the impact advantage begins. You should cite it again within the section on the impact advantage. You should mention that it's comprehensive and annotated. Hitchcock stopped updating it in 2013. But you should mention that SPARC Europe has committed to update it through its Open Access Citation Advantage Service. http://sparceurope.org/oaca/ Finally, in the same place where you cite Swan's literature review, you should cite Ben Wagner's literature review, "Open Access Citation Advantage: An Annotated Bibliography," Issues in Science and Technology Librarianship, Winter 2010. http://www.istl.org/10-winter/article2.html p. 5. In the timeline entry for 2002, the BOAI was released on February 14, not January 14. p. 6. In the timeline entry for 2013, I'd say that the suicide of Aaron Swartz "increases" (not "gains") international attention for the OA movement, or "draws new attention" to the OA movement. The current language suggests that the OA movement didn't have international attention before that, which is very far from the truth. p. 9. You say, "Shifting copyright to stay with the author allows for wider re-use, including TDM, and forms the basis for a robust and developing public domain." You shouldn't use "public domain" here. In copyright law, the term has a specific meaning which you don't mean here. p. 10. You say, "Only recently has any transparency into the detailed costs of subscriptions been gained by using Freedom of Information Requests to bypass non-disclosure agreements between libraries and publishers (Lawson Meghreblian, 2015)." Here you overlook the earlier Big Deal Contract Project in the US, from Ted Bergstrom, Paul Courant, and Preston McAfee. It too used public records laws and Freedom of Information requests. I'm not sure when it launched, but it was before 2009. http://www.econ.ucsb.edu/~tedb/Journals/BundleContracts.html p. 10. You say, "The average production cost for one paper is estimated to be around $3500–$4000 (Van Noorden, 2013)." I've seen dozens of widely varying estimates of this cost, most of them much lower than Van Noorden's. Unfortunately I don't have time to hunt them down. I hope you can introduce at least a few more, if only to show that estimates differ widely here. p. 10. You say, "Philip Campbell (Editor-in-Chief of Nature) stated that his journal’s internal costs were at $20,000–$30,000 per paper...." To clarify, I think he meant that this was the cost per published paper. If Nature rejects x articles for every one it publishes, then this includes the cost of peer reviewing x rejected articles. Since Nature is very selective, x is high. But this "cost per published paper" should not be compared to costs for peer-reviewing a single paper or the production costs of publishing an accepted paper. p. 10. You say, "OA publishing is most prevalent in the form of ‘pay-to-publish’...." This is either false or misleading. About 70% of peer-reviewed OA journals charge no APCs at all. In that sense, the fee-based model is not the most prevalent. It's a minority model. On the other hand, about 50% of the articles published in peer-reviewed OA journals are published in the fee-based variety. On my claim that most OA journals charge no APCs: See my article, "Good facts, bad predictions," SPARC Open Access Newsletter, June 2006. https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4391309 And my article, "No-fee open-access journals," SPARC Open Access Newsletter, November 2, 2006. https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4552050 The DOAJ used to make it easy to see what percentage of listed journals were fee-based and what percentage were no-fee. But it has temporarily made that difficult by combining the categories of "no-fee journals" and "journals for which we don't have enough information to say." On my claim that about half the articles published in peer-reviewed OA journals are published in the fee-based variety, see the updates to p. 170 of my 2012 book. There I cite three studies and quote the relevant excerpts. http://bit.ly/oa-book#p170 p. 10. When you describe ways in which fee-based OA journals mitigate some problems arising from the model, you mention the firewall between the editorial and business side of the journal (good), and you mention fee waivers (good). You should also mention fee discounts, which many journals give in lieu of fee waivers. You should also mention that most fees charged by fee-based journals are paid by funders (59%), or the author's employer (24%), and only 12% are paid by authors themselves. These numbers are from Suenje Dallmeier-Tiessen et al., "Highlights from the SOAP project survey. What Scientists Think about Open Access Publishing," arXiv, January 29, 2011, Table 4. http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5260 p. 12. You say, "In his article Sutton (2011)..." please change "his" to "her". The article is by Caroline Sutton. p. 12. You say, "While OA is not a solution to all aspects of research accessibility (e.g., language barriers and disability access remain continuing issues to be addressed)...." See my 2012 book (Open Access, MIT Press, 2012, http://bit.ly/oa-book ), at pp. 26-27, where I make much the same point. "OA isn't universal access" and by itself doesn't overcome "filtering and censorship barriers", "language barriers", "handicap access barriers", or "connectivity barriers". p. 13. You refer to "the fact that access to knowledge is actively prohibited in fields like public health...." I don't know what you mean here by "actively prohibited". p. 13. You say, "Some traditional publishers, and some academics, have argued that public access to research is not required because research papers cannot be understood by non-specialists...." Here you might want to cite Section 5.5.1 ("OA for Lay Readers," pp. 115-119) of my 2012 book. p. 13. You say, "The shift from a ‘reader pays’ to an ‘author pays’ mode...." I recommend avoiding the term "author pays" for the reasons I gave in my fourth comment to p. 10 above. Most OA journals don't charge author-side fees, and among those who do, most fees are not paid by authors. p. 13. You say, "This has been at least partially mitigated with waiver fees for authors from developing countries and additional provisions in research grants...." Yes. But again, don't forget that the majority of peer-reviewed journals are no-fee journals. See my fourth comment to p. 10 above. pp. 15-15. You say, "Fortunately, it seems that funders and research organisations are moving in that direction. Since 2005, the number policies supporting OA publishing increased steadily. Consequently, it is now the responsibility of researchers to ensure OA to their publications either by choosing the green or the gold road." Since you're recapitulating some grounds for optimism here, I'd also reiterate the growth of rights-retention OA policies. See my second comment on p. 3 above. p. 16. You say, "As Peter Suber, a leading voice in the OA movement, stated: 'As long as they do not have the power to stop Open Access, the toll-access publishers are not the enemy'." Thanks for quoting me. I wanted to give you the source to cite. Unfortunately, I don't think you're using an exact quote. Here's the closest one I can find: "TA [toll-access] publishers are not the enemy. They are only unpersuaded. Even when they are opposed, and not merely unpersuaded, they are only enemies if they have the power to stop OA. No publisher has this power, or at least not by virtue of publishing under a TA business model. If we have enemies, they are those who can obstruct progress to OA. The only people who fit this description are friends of OA who are distracted from providing OA by other work or other priorities." It's from "Two distractions," SPARC Open Access Newsletter, May 3, 2004. https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/4391169 Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (4) Reader Comment 03 May 2016 Alexander Grossmann, Faculty of Media, Leipzig University of Applied Sciences, Germany This is a very useful reviewer's report which may assist the authors to modify and further improve their paper in it's next version. A question to Peter about his claim that most OA journals charge no APC: You say "About 70% of peer-reviewed OA journals charge no APCs at all. In that sense, the fee-based model is not the most prevalent. It's a minority model." Would you give a more recent reference for this statement, please? The cited publications which were mentioned in your report seem to be not up-to-date at least because they were published 10 years ago. Meanwhile there are much more OA journals on the market, both hybrid or OA-only, in comparison with 2006. Moreover we should consider the fact that new OA journals are mostly free of charge for the first two years in their market introduction phase. After this period they are likely to become author-payed journals with APCs. I am not sure if the latter observation has been reflected by those statistics, too. Thanks for clarifying this point. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern Author Response 10 May 2016 Jon Tennant, Imperial College London, London, UK Hi Alexander, I've been looking into this, and the most up-to-date statistics for this based on the DOAJ come from this source: http://citesandinsights.info/civ16i4.pdf . Figures here seem to suggest that 71% of journals in the DOAJ do not levy an APC. This is likely to change slightly with the updated 'crackdown' from the DOAJ ( http://www.nature.com/news/open-access-index-delists-thousands-of-journals-1.19871 ), but I'll add a reference to this in. Jon View more View less Competing Interests I work with Alexander at ScienceOpen. reply Respond Report a concern Reviewer Response 25 May 2016 Peter Suber, Harvard University, Cambridge, USA Here are the latest stats from the DOAJ (May 24, 2016). https://goo.gl/LejTAw View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern Author Response 25 May 2016 Jon Tennant, Imperial College London, London, UK Dear Alexander, I'm just posting the link that Peter was kind enough to send us yesterday, with updated statistics on this matter: https://plus.google.com/+PeterSuber/posts/HjrRDcrZS8p Important points: Here are the numbers as of May 24, 2016: Total number of journals listed in DOAJ = 8,858 Yes (fee-based) = 1,424 = 16% No (no-fee) = 2,601 = 29% No info = 4,833 = 55% Further references and information are provided in that post, and will be integrated into the next version of this manuscript. Best, Jon View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Suber P. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13430) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13430 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Lockwood G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 15 Apr 2016 | for Version 1 Gwilym Lockwood , Neurobiology of Language Department, Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands 0 Views copyright © 2016 Lockwood G. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This is the first time I've written an open peer review, although I always sign private peer reviews. Normally I'd make comments directed to the authors and the authors alone, but since this is open, I've also included a section for other readers of this paper. This may sound a bit like an Amazon or Airbnb review or something. Short summary for readers This is an excellent paper about the academic, economic, and societal benefits and impacts of Open Access. It's a good introductory text for people who don't know much about OA and would like to know more. It's also a good persuasive text for stakeholders in policy, universities, publishing, funding, etc. positions who may be interested in including OA in their decision making. In addition to its attention to detail, its main strengths are its focus, its brevity, and its relative impartiality. One of the difficulties with writing about OA is that there are so many overlapping issues; this paper is very good at giving a brief overview or description of the other issues, pointing the reader in the direction of somewhere with more information, and then getting back onto the topic. Another thing about OA is that its advocates are very passionate about it. As with any cause, that's a good thing for its supporters, but overwhelmingly pro-OA resources can seem potentially off-putting to neutrals. This paper does an excellent job of presenting an evidence-based pro-OA viewpoint in a measured tone and without coming across as ideological. One possible caveat is that the paper presents extensive evidence of what OA does, but it doesn't tackle the meatier issue of how to implement it successfully. However, I feel that's a separate issue which is beyond the scope and purpose of this paper. Suggestions and comments for authors First of all, great article! Well done and thank you for pulling together what is a disparate collection of links and literature into a one-stop shop which is both useful and coherent. I like this article a lot... but my role here is to criticise and make it better, so the rest of this review will focus on that. This article is well-written and well-structured. That's made it much easier as a reviewer to simply go through the article and highlight my issues with it paragraph by paragraph, rather than having to make it coherent first and then sort out the smaller things. The vast majority of the issues I have with this paper are minor ones, so it didn't make sense to have separate major/minor sections; rather, I'll just go through them in order in the text. (I printed this out to underline/comment on, so for me, tables 1 and 2 came during the academic case for OA section. Online, they're supplementary materials, and I think it's best that way, but this is why I'm commenting on the tables during that section) Abstract "We recommend that OA supporters focus their efforts on working to establish viable new models and systems of scholarly communication, rather than trying to undermine the existing ones..." In general, I agree with this sentiment. However, I feel that its inclusion in the abstract is a bit jarring as the text of the article doesn't really cover recommendations to OA supporters at all, other than in the very last paragraph. I think that's good, as I feel this paper is best suited as relatively neutral source of information rather than a preaching to the converted or ideology discussion kind of purpose. So, I think this part can be left out of the abstract; it doesn't refer to any particular "recommendations to OA supporters" bit in the text and potentially clouds the strength of the relative impartiality of the paper. A brief history of OA "BioMed Central and ... PLOS were founded in the early 2000s and remain successful businesses to date." (p3, col2) Technically, PLOS is a non-profit. I suggest changing successful businesses to successful business models. This both highlights the financial sustainability of OA (increased APCs at PLOS notwithstanding) and also sets it apart from traditional publishers, which are definitely successful businesses. The academic case for OA figure 1 (p4, top) I have difficulty interpreting the y-axis on figure 1. It's labelled as cumulative number of PubMed articles relative to 2000, but I'm not sure how to read it. Reading off 2014, non-OA is c.22 on the y-axis, and OA is c.33 on the y-axis. Based on the figure 1 caption about the ratio, I'm interpreting this as meaning that, in 2014, the ratio of cumulative PubMed articles was approx 33:22 OA to non-OA, or in other words, 60% of PubMed articles in 2000-2014 were OA. However, I'm not sure if this is how it's meant to be interpreted. I think that it's well visualised, and really makes it clear how OA has taken off, but exactly what the numbers represent on the y-axis is unclear to me: number of articles? number of times more articles? It could use some relabelling. "Napster moment" (p4, col1) I like the comparison, but it could use a citation (even just the Napster wikipedia article) and/or a little more explanation to clarify what that means. Table 1: "1991 ... by the American physician Paul Ginsparg" He's a physicist, not a physician. Table 2: Xu et al (2011) I don't think this reference was very well cited. Firstly, Oxford Open Journals are listed as a discipline, when they're the source of papers across disciplines. The actual disciplines were Medicine, Social Sciences, Mathematics Physical Sciences, Life Sciences, and Humanities. Secondly, you list the citation advantage as 138.87%. However, one of the main findings of this paper was the disparity in citation advantages; it ranged from 163.16% for OA articles in Mathematics Physical Sciences to an actual citation disadvantage of -49.24% for OA articles in Humanities. Given the pro-OA nature of the paper, I feel like you have an extra responsibility to report the few anti-OA pieces of evidence. Gargouri et al (2010) (page 8, col1) This paragraph is about a possible confound for the OA citation advantage, where it could be that researchers choose to publish OA for extra cool findings, and you use the Gargouri et al. study to counter this... which is totally correct. You write: "Gargouri et al. (2010) compared citation counts [for articles which were] self-selected as OA or mandated as OA. The study concluded that both were cited significantly more than non-OA articles. As such, these findings rule out a selection bias" This is true that both OA types were cited more than non-OA. However, it's also missing the crucial point that there was no difference in citation between self-selected OA articles and mandatory OA articles. Including this would strengthen your point to show that it's OA itself which leads to the citation advantage. The whole section about altmetrics (subhead societal impact of the academic case for OA, p8, col2) could use some attention. It's not clear until much later what the difference is between alternative metrics (i.e. altmetrics), i.e. the various types of metrics which are alternative to journal impact factors, and Altmetric, i.e. the company which is often confusingly referred to as Altmetrics (not in this paper, to be fair, but elsewhere). A quick disambiguating sentence or two would be really useful here. In the following paragraph (page 8, col2), you write about OA altmetrics advantage, and say that there's a logical assumption that OA articles should have one. However, this doesn't consider the fact that the prestige of some journals is advertising in and of itself. You can, and do, get a lot of closed-access papers which generate high altmetrics (social media attention, Mendeley readhership) from academics who do have access. And sure enough, in the next paragraph, (page 8 and 9), the Wang et al. 2015 article finds that the OA altmetric advantage doesn't extend to the most impactful articles. I think this section can be made more nuanced and informative by quickly discussing the role of journal prestige. Nothing in depth, just as something that exists and needs to change (for example, you could point people to Brembs et al. and the Deep Impact paper in Frontiers). "Essentially, copyright is a tool wielded by traditional publishers for financial gain rather than fostering creativity..." I don't disagree with this. However, I feel it comes on too strong. I think it's fair to say that most people's immediate opinion of copyright is "well, I'd like my stuff to be copyrighted, as that means people can't steal it and pass it off as their own". I think that you need a little more detail here, even just two or three sentences to explain how and why copyright is used for financial gain rather than author protection. Otherwise, it just sounds political/ideological, and counterintuitive for people who haven't read much about copyright. Glenisson et al. (2005) citation (page 9, col2). You write that TDM has "proven to be useful for a large variety of applications", and use the Glenisson citation to back this up. I have to say here that I know very little about TDM; however, following through to the Glenisson paper, I don't see how it supports that conclusion. I read it and it seems to show a proof-of-concept kind of study: that TDM can group a set of papers into themes in the same way that an expert can. This is really cool and everything, but I don't think that that substantiates your point that TDM is useful for a large variety of applications. Rather, I'd like to see a couple of specific examples, which you then describe more fully in the next paragraph. One good one is Swanson 1987 (I think - taken from here: http://people.ischool.berkeley.edu/~hearst/papers/acl99/acl99-tdm.html ), who used TDM to make the link between migraines and magnesium deficiency. "...simply because one can no longer keep up with the published literature". Small point, but I think it's worth stressing that this is due to the amount of literature that there is. The economic case for OA the pay-to-publish part (p10, col2) I feel this glosses over problems with pay-to-publish. You come back to predatory OA later, but this isn't quite the same: I think it could use a couple of extra sentences describing what the conflict of interest for researchers is, and also stress that pay-to-publish makes it potentially in a journal's interest to accept more papers than they necessarily should. One of the most common anti-OA arguments I see in non-scientific media is that OA is pay-to-publish, which is often misrepresented as "pay-to-publish is publication bribery". I think this section needs a little more substance to it to acknowledge/address this. "making publication costs dependent on the value added..." (page 11, col1) When talking about the value added by journals, this paragraph ignores the elephant in the room: journal prestige. Again, I know that this isn't the purpose of this article, but I think it could really be strengthened by mentioning it before moving on. "Much primary research actually takes place outside of academia inside research and development departments" (page 11, col2) The part following this sentence is muddy. First, you talk about RD outside academia (i.e. presumably private research), and then you talk about access to research results because they're publicly financed public goods. So, what does that mean, that RD from private businesses who've invested their own capital in it should be made available to all? (maybe I agree with that, in some cases, but a lot of people sure won't) I think this paragraph could be honed a bit; otherwise, it's straying into the ideological territory of saying that all private research should be made public for the public good. That transcends OA in scholarly publishing, and makes OA in scholarly publishing too easy to dismiss. The cancer research paragraph (page 12, col1) is also unclear. It took me a while to figure out it's talking about UK expenditure - my first assumption of "total expenditure" meant worldwide. It's also not totally clear what the point is - the geographical origin of research is unrelated to its open status. I think that it's quite a leap to write (apologies for paraphrasing) "83% of UK economic benefit from cancer research comes from research outside UK, therefore open access is good", because I think it conflates two different things. Also, small point, "17% of the annual net-monetary was estimated" is missing the word benefit after net-monetary. The societal case for OA Small point: as somebody who wears a linguistics hat quite often, it rankles to read on page 11 "Examples of [non-academic] groups who might benefit include... those who work in linguistics and translation". Translation, for sure, but linguistics is an academic field - you even mention the Lingua to Glossa movement organised by academic linguists later in the manuscript! To me, this is like writing "...those who work in biology and vets", lumping the academic field and a practical use of that field together. Just referring to translation is fine. Citizen engagement (page 13, col 1) I agree that these are great examples of citizen engagement with science, but at the risk of sounding like an Elsevier representative, interest in projects like Galaxy Zoo does not entail desire to download and read papers. In fact, you could even make the (spurious) argument that those projects come into existence precisely because citizens aren't interested in downloading and reading papers. I don't actually agree with that, I agree with your general point... but I think that citizen science project interest and citizen science paper interest. Obviously I think it is in the public interest to have science journals OA, but this isn't the right argument (and I think the sentence "Such statements conflate a lack of desire or need for access with the denial of opportunity to access research" is perfect). I think a stronger argument would be to look at existing OA journals, such as PLOS and Frontiers, and see how many views and downloads come from people who aren't academics. If you can point to, say, some of the most viewed/downloaded PLOS papers and say "look, 30% (or whatever, that's a random number) of these readers aren't academics, they're real people who are interested in it", that would make for a stronger argument. Quibble about the "yes, we were warned about Ebola" example: the finding from that paper (that Liberians have Ebola antibodies in their blood, suggesting the endemic presence of Ebola) is actually written on the first page preview of the paper ( http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0769261782800282/part/first-page-pdf , accessed from my laptop outside my institution). It could be argued that anybody could see this finding anywhere in the world, meaning that it's not a problem of OA, it's a problem about searching and indexing. A good counterargument to that is obviously that this paper would have been unsearchable with TDM at the start of the outbreak when people were combing through all West African Ebola literature. " 'green' model of OA adoption" (page 13, col2) You generally refer to Green and Gold routes, with the colours capitalised. Just a small terminology thing to keep consistent. A much more important thing is also on page 13, col2: "The pay-to-publish system is a potentially greater burden for authors in developed countries, considering that they are not used to paying publication costs, and funding systems for OA are not as well-established as those in the Western world." -- developing countries, not developed countries! Predatory publishers (page 14, col1) I agree with Ross Mounce's comment on the paper: you give Beall too much importance. I think it can be a useful list and should be mentioned, but definitely include some caveats like the ones Ross writes, or the fact that he added Frontiers to the list because of a couple of editorial mistakes. Conclusions Peter Suber (page 16, col1) You describe him as "a leading voice in the OA movement", but I think you should write what his positions are (see http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/~psuber/wiki/Peter_Suber ) in order to justify his importance. Other general things There are no proposed solutions in this paper, which is totally fine, because it's beyond the scope of the paper. I feel it could benefit by putting in a couple of sentences here and there about who is needed for driving this change: academics, funders, governments, etc. I was disappointed not to see anything about the Dutch government and university library organisations' collective drive towards OA. They've changed the national law on copyright, they've reached agreements with most major publishing groups, they may well introduce mandatory OA publishing in the Netherlands in 2016, and they've made it one of the main priorities of their EU presidency this year. It's like the best example of how a whole country can take the lead and sort it out. I think including a quick reference to the Netherlands as an example of excellent OA policy (in the same way that you mention sciELO in Latin America) would go a long way towards convincing the people who are reading this thinking, "ah, yes, I guess OA makes sense in the developing world, but we're doing fine here in the West and it would be too difficult to change things". A good summary of that is here: http://openaccess.nl/en/in-the-netherlands/current-situation Final remarks That's the end of my 2800-odd word review. I really enjoyed reading this paper, going through it, and trying to find ways to improve it. Thanks to the authors for writing an excellent paper. References 1. Brembs B, Button K, Munafò M: Deep impact: unintended consequences of journal rank. Front Hum Neurosci . 2013; 7 : 291 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Swanson D: Two medical literatures that are logically but not bibliographically connected. Journal of the American Society for Information Science . 1987; 38 (4): 228-233 3.0.CO;2-G">Publisher Full Text Competing Interests Non-financial: I'm an Open Access advocate, and so I have a vested ideological interest in seeing papers like this succeed and reach wide audiences. However, if anything, I believe that makes my peer review more critical, as I want this paper to be the best paper it can be. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Lockwood G. Peer Review Report For: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review [version 3; peer review: 4 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :632 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9110.r13293) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v1#referee-response-13293 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "The academic, economic and societal impacts...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v3" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v3&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v3" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Tennant JP et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v3/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632",
 templates : {
 twitter : "The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an.... Tennant JP et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-632/v3"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Review", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: The academic, economic and societal impacts of Open Access: an evidence-based review", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/8460/10376")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "10376");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "24672": 35,
 "14273": 74,
 "14274": 68,
 "14275": 129,
 "14276": 0,
 "16583": 179,
 "13291": 158,
 "13292": 94,
 "13293": 162,
 "13294": 0,
 "13295": 128,
 "13430": 189,
 "16504": 0,
 "16505": 0,
 "16506": 0,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "f46f1641-1cb9-4714-a677-46b81c7e335d";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 