 Overview The work of Bohan Brown et al examines the impact of breakfast skipping versus consumption on obesity related anthropometric measures using meta-analytical methods. The authors have selected a focused question and I found the description of the methods and decisions behind inclusion/exclusion of papers to be thorough. As a non-statistician, I do not feel best placed to provide a critique of the statistical approach, but at face value do not see anything unusual. Generally, the data presentation was clear, and the interpretation of the results was appropriate to the scope of the work. I have outlined some specific comments for the authors consideration below, relating to small clarifications and the inclusion of a very recently published piece of work as point of context. Introduction I found the introduction appropriate to set the context for the work. As an area of nutrition that has been historically dominated by cross-sectional studies, it is of clear interest to examine the causal data relating to breakfast and body composition. I am not completely clear on the timings of the relative publications, but at time of review, the work by Bonnet referenced in the Prospero registration has now been published in Obesity. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/oby.22791 1 If possible, I would suggest this reference is added. Methods I generally found the description of the methods to be thorough and clear. “One breakfast skipping condition” and one “breakfast eating” condition. While the authors state regardless of modality – can I clarify whether this is based upon the original authors original definitions of these conditions (I assume this to be the case – but think it is useful to state here if so, in the same way that you have below in this section for weight status)? I found the description of included and excluded studies to be very thorough. As a non-statistician I do not consider myself well placed to examine the meta-analytical methods used thoroughly, this would be more appropriate for a statistician to evaluate. At face value, there does not seem to be anything particularly unusual about the approach employed. Results I found the description of the results to be clear and thorough and the figures to be generally clear. Figure 2 – I think it is helpful to have a visual representation of the different implementations of the interventions. However, is it possible to make this figure colour and make the different elements more distinct? With these very similar grey shades and fill patterns this figure is a little difficult to interpret. Figure 3 – I think it would be helpful to write in simple terms what each side of the 0 line represents on this figure within the figure legend, as you do for the description of Table 2. I also appreciate this may be for practical reasons, but the figures with only one missing value on the axis look a little strange – I presume this might be because the labels do not fit, but if easily adjustable I would suggest it might be beneficial to add this single missing label. Discussion I generally found the discussion clear and highlighted appropriately the limitations based on the scope of the work. As outlined for the introduction – the work of Bonnet is now published, and is potentially of interest, as they suggest based on their analysis a small but significantly reduced body weight (-0.54kg (CI: -1.05 to -0.03), which is also broadly in line with Sievert, suggesting a very small reduction in body mass with breakfast skipping. If possible, I would suggest this study is cited. I understand that clearly any effects in favour of breakfast skipping for body mass are small, but I think as the two other meta-analyses conducted conclude this, this is worth incorporating into your second paragraph about the potential for non-zero effects as a point of context. I don’t think this impacts upon your general point that any potential for effects are likely of low clinical significance. I think that with such a small set of studies with a very large variation between them, narrative reviews can often be valuable in this context for examining and considering the nuance of the results from different designs. I think it is good that you have clearly highlighted the limits of the meta-analytical approach used. I appreciate your point that longer term studies are often to determine the longer-term trajectory of interventions that may show short term impacts on body composition. Given that two other meta-analyses conclude that there may be a significant reduction overall (albeit small) with breakfast skipping is there also added value in determining if breakfast skipping over long durations causes more substantial weight loss? I am unclear as to the relevance of the “[j]ust because”? If this is a typo – it should be amended. While I think it is helpful that you have outlined the limitations of your analysis for informing the overall benefit of breakfast, I have two suggestions: I think it is relevant to acknowledge that breakfast consumption/omission has previously been shown to impact upon specific components of energy balance that may have independent effects upon health. I would suggest providing some references for studies/reviews examining the different factors that you highlight as not being examined in the present work (i.e. blood glucose control, cardiometabolic risk etc), should the reader be interested in those aspects. 