 Overall comments: This is an important survey, and I support the collection of these results, but not the way they are currently presented and interpreted. The presentation has been compromised by poor attention to methods. This raises concerns about errors in the analysis and that conclusions are not assured. The small sample size involved also raises concerns about the robustness of the conclusions. Given the very large population decline being described it is important to ensure that the conclusions are supported by the data. As it stands a lot more caution needs to be attached to this work - results might be suggestive of a decline that needs more serious investigation rather than this being proven. Furthermore, explanation of the declines is not always clear the overall tone of the discussion is that disturbance has harmed the pipit even though some evidence suggests the pipits benefit from disturbance. No data are presented to demonstrate that disturbance has increased over the course of the decline. I think the authors could do with a good session with a qualified statistician to first straighten out the analyses, and then review their conclusions. And I would urge them to do this as the conclusions could be important for the conservation of this species. Abstract: 5 globally threatened and 4 near-threatened, not 9 threatened. The Methods section states it correctly. Introduction: Birds in general are not most sensitive to forest change, but certain groups are good indicator species. Avoid reference to BirdLife factsheets if possible, good as they are - the original source is preferable. The title of the article by Musila et al. (2001) certainly implies they studied response to habitat change. Make clear that you are not studying change it is not a before and after study. You are substituting space for time. The title also implies you have studied change over time (modification). Materials and methods: Change BirdLife protocols to BirdLife criteria. The second paragraph is largely not needed as it is unrelated to the pipits, and can be referenced elsewhere. Third paragraph, change community zones to . Paragraph four insert a quick statement about the amount of forest in the surrounding landscape (i.e. almost none!) How do honey harvesting and game snaring affect the habitat? Do they cut trees to harvest honey? But what about snaring? Sampling strategy: You use the term . If this is to denote commercial logging as opposed to illegal logging might be better to make this clear. The positioning of transects is very unclear. Are you saying that you used existing paths as transects? Or were the paths only used to locate a starting point? You also need to say why you used existing paths as transects when you have already said that the habitat has a relatively open understory and is therefore presumably easy to move through. Looking at the map, the transect look very straight which suggests they were not on existing tracks. Do you think the 3 rd track on the left really is unbiased since more heavily disturbed areas are likely to have a higher density of tracks, which means your sample in more disturbed areas will always tend to be nearer your point of entry and likely therefore to be the more disturbed parts of the patch. I think you need to be clear about this. You say you ensured at least 1 km separation between transects but dont say how you actually did this given that the transect selection is described as random. Bird Survey: Distance sampling (as cited) does not specify a fixed width to the transect. It is called variable distance sampling. You may specify a cut off beyond which you dont bother recording observations. Is that what you mean? Doubling counting of birds on different transects is only a problem if the movement of the bird between the two was caused by the observers. Presumably you recorded cluster size? It isnt mentioned. Did you walk transects more than once? This is implied in the paragraph on sampling strategy but no information is given about how many times here or there. Vegetation sampling: How did you measure % canopy height with rangefinder? How many readings did you take and how do you express this as a percentage? Percentage of plot covered by different height classes? If you measured straight up this tends to underestimate height because of the number of occasions that the laser hits lower branches and because you only read from the underside of the canopy. If you measured from the distance then you needed to measured angle too? Was the stem size you measured the circumference or the DBH. You say you used an ordinary tape measure. Why do you say this - you can still use this to record diameter. Are the size classes given circumferences or diameters? You say you recorded cut stems in size classes to the live stems. What do you mean? The same? If not the same say why and how the classes differed. Obviously you cant usually measure a cut stem at breast height so need to say so and how you dealt with this. In that sentence about cut stems you also refer to diameter so does that mean the other measurement earlier were diameters? Floor Litter Sampling: Litter cover was assessed by dividing the 10 10 m quadrats into 25 smaller grids of 2 2 m quadrats by use of a standard meter rule and tape measure then ascertaining the percentage category in each 2 2 square before averaging the total out of 25 This is an awkward sentence. Did you ascertain the percentage cover in each 2x2 square and then record the average value for all 25 squares? Data analyses: Try to avoid starting section/paragraph/sentence with . OK, so here you state the number of visits this is in the wrong section. You shouldnt being expecting normal distribution in bird count data or counts of trees in stem size classes, regardless of samples sizes. Counts are discrete integers whereas a normal distribution assumes all possible values could be observed (i.e. fractional values). This means that log-transforming the count data to cope with the apparent skew in the data is incorrect. Count data in natural populations are nearly always heavily skewed for birds there are always lots of low counts (and often many zero counts) and for trees there are (nearly) always lots of small trees compared to big trees. Bird count data often follow a poisson distribution. Having said all that there shouldnt be any transformations undertaken of the bird data (the distances) prior to analysis in Distance. You are not analysing the counts but the distances and in this case you certainly wont have a normal distribution at best a half normal. The distribution of predictor variables like stem density is not important and dont need transforming for a regression. But if you are analysing stem density by forest block then stem density becomes the response variable and you do need to worry about its distribution. When you analyse using regression the densities arising from the Distance analysis then you need to worry about the distribution. And in this case you may need to transform the densities to approximate normality. For calculation of the encounter rate, is not mean abundance, it is the number of detections. You are using the number of detection to try and work out the abundance. Explanation of choosing MCDS isnt clear. If cluster size was entered as a covariate because cluster size affected detectability then that makes sense, but you state that cluster size varied little implying it wasnt an issue. But you do seem to say that encounter rate varied a lot from one site to another. But youve not made it clear why MCDS would help cope with this (actually I dont think it would). We selected the cosine adjusted half-normal detection functional model with the lowest value based on Akaike Information Criterion in the density estimations would read better as: We selected the cosine adjusted half-normal detection function based on it having the lowest AIC value. However, you ought to assess model fit on more than just AIC. Did you have to pool data? Or truncate data? What other models did you consider? Bird diversity was worked out using the reciprocal of Simpson better worded as Bird diversity was estimated using the reciprocal of Simpson It is not clear the level at which stem densities were calculated for each transect? Same goes for the other veg measurements. IT is not clear what you did to canopy cover: converted the values to ordinal scale then converted this to a ratio. Ratio of what to what? Doesnt this imply a closer numeric relationship between the classes than you really measured? Presumably the high variance in stem densities was because of the very small plot size relative to mean stem density 0.1 ha is quite a small area to sample for trees in any forest. simple linear regression - It is not clear what this means. Do you mean univariate tests where you only consider one predictor variable at a time? If so, then you really ought to consider multivariate tests. Differences of means of the key habitat (independent) variables were compared on the spatial scale by one-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) using the forest blocks as the categorical treatment effects on the bird (response) variables. I dont understand this sentence so please rephrase. Are you saying you used ANOVA to test for differences in the habitat variables between the different forest blocks? Not sure how the bird (response) variables also fit in here. Results: No need to report on other birds species. The paper is about the pipit. You can mention that pipits surveyed as part of survey of all species but the other species data are few and add little. There were 17 encounters of Sokoke Pipit with an overall abundance of 30 individuals Confusing. You encountered pipits on 17 occasions comprising 30 individuals. Abundance is what you are trying to estimate from these encounters. You could put mean group size in brackets here to clarify further). Jilore and Kararacha are described as moderate to highly disturbed in contrast to Narasha which is more disturbed. Not clear which is actually the more disturbed. Table suggests the former are less disturbed. You report results of a chi sq test of clumpedness but dont explain this in methods. Can you report 95% confidence intervals instead of standard errors in table 1. Makes it much easier to interpret the results. Table 1 says you right-truncated the data presumably you mean in Distance. This is not mentioned in Methods. Perhaps relates to earlier confusion about appearing to use fixed width transects at 60m. Table 1 AIC presumably refers to the value returned by distance. This serves no purpose in this table as you cannot compare AIC values for the different forest blocks as they are computed from different data. AIC values can only be compared where the data are the same. Is degradation confounded with edge effect (Jilore)? Figure 2 - there should be no line connecting the three sites because there are no intermediate locations to be represented by positions along the line. They are discrete sites. Would be better to have a box and whisker plot for this figure. Fig 2 - it is hard to believe from this plot that litter depth does vary significantly between the blocks despite the reported very low p value! Table 2 should say stems per hectare, not densities per hectare. Having said stems size classes were pooled earlier on, table 2 reports results of them unpooled. Why cant Fig 4 be shown as scatter plot like Fig 3? There appears to be no relationship in Fig 4 between logging and pipits. Two unlogged sites have both high and low pipet density and the logged site had intermediate pipit density. Good to include the raw Distance data thats commendable. Would be also good to have a plot showing the Distance histogram and selected model to demonstrate how suitable the selected model was. The analysis really lacks a coherent conclusion as there was no attempt to combine the predictor variables in a single analysis. Admittedly this may not be possible with so few replicates but there may be other ways to cut the data to improve this. Discussion: A good edit for language is required, in the discussion especially. There are long sections about forest disturbance and history that do not arise from the results of the survey. These should be moved to the introduction by way of describing the site and why the survey might be needed or removed. Not sure that the impact of logging on the pipits is proven from the presentation given. Fig 4 is not convincing as it stands. In fact the opposite seems to be argued for in places logging leads to more litter which is good for pipits. The article needs a good reference to back up the idea that leaf litter from felled trees persists for any length of time. Usually if a tree is felled the leaves dry up attached to the branches and dont fall off as they would naturally. Logging may lead to there being more dead wood rotting on the forest floor though. The elephant issue is important as fenced population must be having an impact. My understanding was that the fence was now complete. There is no real discussion of comparison with former surveys. Decline is rather simply attributed to habitat degradation without comparing the habitat in current survey with the habitat before. 