This excellent paper proposes to learn from progresses in leading areas of medicine innovation (AIDS, oncology, Alzheimer's disease) to extend them to other chronic diseases using system approaches. Representing health states with the aim of designing the right intervention for the right patient at the right time and dose should allow reiterative approaches in longitudinal studies. The paper focus on modernization of diagnosis (omics etc), technologies/digital health and biological/clinical (biomarkers) and and economic aspects of the disease. A comment that can be done to the paper, only partially covered by other reviewers, is that it tries to cover a too large subject, which makes it difficult to read; while avoiding, in our opinion, some crucial points. It is also of note that the readability of the paper could be greatly improved by focusing on the key messages; the author tends to drift off topic and his lyrical musings, although interesting, add a lot of weight to an already large paper. We would omit/reduce the sections on Open science culture and Business model innovation, Semantic web. We would also reduce the section on systems approaches, that are already well covered in the manuscripts cited in the text. Blue zones, islands of longevity: the author provocatively states how it is possible to translate the information that being a shepherd who eats barley and live in the mountain to the general population. Genetics of centenarians is a very important research field. We now know that specific mutations associated to IGF-1 are enriched only in centenarians. We can also learn a lot in terms of food habits and nutraceuticals from extreme long-lived healthy people. Diet, moderate intake or animal proteins. Exercise. Prevention. Family ties: Emma Morano Martinuzzi, the longest lived person on the planet recently passed away aged 117.5 years old. Emma had something that ALL long lived healthy people share: extensive family social network of support. A true army of offspring, grandchildren, cousins etc. Emma was never alone. In modern Western societies old people tend to isolate and die alone in their houses. Loneliness is notoriously associated to lowering immune defenses, depression and chronic diseases. It is all linked. An important section of the paper should be dedicated to governmental/social policies not to leave our elderly to age and die alone (robots are not a solution), which happens less in the Eastern world or in more archaic societies. Medical knowledge, conceptual framework, technological advances and semantic categorization of stakeholders interactions are useless exercises without removing the elephant in the room: the sentimental and civil value we give to our elderly. Minor comment: in page 5, the author links the development of human civilization with the eutrophication of waters. We think that linking eutrophication with human activity should not be automatic. Eutrophication can be the product of a natural process, such as unusually high temperatures, modification of the hydrogeology of the ecosystem, natural erosion process of rich soils causing a sudden rise in availability of certain nutrients... 