General comments: This is a good effort by the authors to introduce mHealth in overcoming the barriers to achieving optimum IYCF. The article is not written very well. There are numerous English language comprehension and spelling (perhaps typo) mistakes. The authors leave the reader confused about their sampling frame at several places, and text is some times extremely haphazard. The tables are cited irrespective of their order as they appear in the article. Discussion lacks critical points from results discussed. There is an element of publication bias and misinterpretation of technical terms such as Recall Bias (contrary to how it is defined in text books of epidemiology). About 30% of the references are more than five years old. Specific comments: Abstract: The abstract reports only the positive findings without highlighting the negative findings. It also concludes for effectiveness, whereas, no test of significance was applied, and just uses the difference in percentages as proof of significant effectiveness. Methods: Ten can be written as 10, as numbers below 10 are written in words only. For intervention part, the authors had messages translated to Urdu from English just once. However, the standard is to back translate it in English so that they are exactly the same as they were before the initial translation. The paragraph on "intervention design" needs rephrasing as the text is confusing. Similarly, the paragraph on "messages" also needs rephrasing, so that the reader easily understand what the authors wanted them to know. Sampling frame creates big confusion. In the start it is 0-24 months of age children. But then it changes to 0-12 months in the later text (mobile application part). Further, in the flow diagram, this age group is further subdivided into 0-6 and 7-24 months of age. It is unclear how the application designed only for 0-12 months of age could have catered for age group beyond 12 months. The flow diagram has repeatedly wrong spellings of "participants". In paragraph three, following the heading "mobile application" again contradicts the 7-24 months of age and states 7-12 months of age. age 6, paragraph two, the text has not been able to explain to the reader whether the SIM and mobile were acquired for the LHWs or for all the participants. This should be clearly stated and differentiated. Additional points for methods: For practices, why were there non-direct or indirect observations? The acquired knowledge of the participants during the intervention can lead to over reporting of good practices to please the researchers (Hawthorne effect). Furthermore, did the researchers take into an account the effect of other sources of knowledge (confounders), which could supplement or negatively impact their intervention, and how did they take care of them and controlled those factors? Results: Results are divided into descriptive and inferential statistics. However, no test of significance was applied for the inferential statistics. Just on the bases of difference of percentages in pre- and post- is insufficient to claim significant effectiveness. The results should be written in order of the objectives of the study as they were achieved. The tables are cited without proper and ascending sequence. Discussion: Instead of discussing the mHealth intervention in length, depicting their inclination towards supporting their positive results only, the authors should do impartial and unbiased discussion. They should also discuss the implication of negative results, why some practices also increased while a few declined, what could be the underlying factors (supported by literature), claiming that the women favored the use of mobile phone to access information was not supported by any result given in the text. References: About 30% of references were of more than five years old. 