The authors are developing a PET method using the tracer 18 F-L-FEHTP, to detect changes in beta cell mass and/or function through imaging the expression of the LAT1 receptor within pancreas to identify those individuals at high risk of developing diabetes. Although they find that the tracer is capable of revealing lower LAT1 expression in Akita mice (but not STZ treated mice), high uptake in other types of pancreatic cells may circumvent the use of 18 F-L-FEHTP to image beta cell mass and function. In the introduction, the authors mention another study that they published where PET was used to successfully image changes in beta cell mass prior to fasting hyperglycemia. I think it's important, for the context and rationale of this work, to explain why a different tracer was needed for this work since as written it appears they already have a good tracer (although reading the reference would make it clear that they actually imaged a reporter gene). In the introduction, the sentence that discusses VMAT2 expression in other tissues is incomplete. Many PET tracers that image receptor expression are expressed in a variety of tissues and this does prevent their use. A bit more information should be added at the end of the sentence to help the reader understand why VMAT2 expression in other tissues resulted in such poor PET images. The second image in Figure 2B has the arrow pointing into a location without any tracer uptake. I don’t think that is intentional and it is close to an area with high uptake. Although slight, the arrow should be moved a bit to clearly point out the pancreas in that specific image. In addition, the figure would be generally improved by labelling all organs that demonstrate high tracer uptake in the PET images. Would it have been reasonable to perform statistical analysis to determine if there is a potential outlier in the Akita mouse data (with very high pancreatic uptake) as shown in Figure 2A? In paragraph 1 of the discussion, use of the word “amazingly” seems inappropriate in the paper. It is established that LAT1 is highly expressed in the pancreas and high uptake was previously reported for this tracer by Kramer et al , (2012) so I wasn’t really “amazed” by the high uptake. The uptake in the pancreas is indeed impressive however. In agreement with Dr. Virostko, I am a bit confused why there are dramatic changes in the % injected dose/g values measured in pancreas vs the kidney from the biodistribution data but much smaller relative changes in the SUV values obtained from the PET data. Can the authors explain this as I could be missing something? At least a comment in the text would be valuable. Is there really no significant differences in uptake between the pancreas and blood shown in Figure 1? References 1. Krämer SD, Mu L, Müller A, Keller C, et al.: 5-(2-18F-fluoroethoxy)-L-tryptophan as a substrate of system L transport for tumor imaging by PET. J Nucl Med . 2012; 53 (3): 434-42 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Phenix C. Reviewer Report For: Characterization of 5-(2- 18 F-fluoroethoxy)-L-tryptophan for PET imaging of the pancreas [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1851 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9823.r15268 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1851/v1#referee-response-15268 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 14 Nov 2016 Ahmed Abbas , Western University, London, Canada 14 Nov 2016 Author Response We apologize if the rationale of the study was not clear. We have added “in the context of a reporter gene” to line 14 of the Introduction to ... Continue reading We apologize if the rationale of the study was not clear. We have added “in the context of a reporter gene” to line 14 of the Introduction to clarify the need to produce a clinically applicable PET tracer. We have clarified our presentation of the VMAT2 findings. We have adjusted the arrowhead to indicate a region of high uptake and indicated the location of the spleen. We have tested for the presence of outliers in the Akita pancreas bioD (Figure 2A) as suggested. Based on Grubb’s test for outliers (alpha = 0.05), there are no outliers. Also, all values are within 2 standard deviations of the mean. We have replaced “amazingly” with “interestingly” See response to Dr. Virotsko’s comment. We have run the statistical test again and confirmed that there is no significant difference in tracer uptake between pancreas and blood. We apologize if the rationale of the study was not clear. We have added “in the context of a reporter gene” to line 14 of the Introduction to clarify the need to produce a clinically applicable PET tracer. We have clarified our presentation of the VMAT2 findings. We have adjusted the arrowhead to indicate a region of high uptake and indicated the location of the spleen. We have tested for the presence of outliers in the Akita pancreas bioD (Figure 2A) as suggested. Based on Grubb’s test for outliers (alpha = 0.05), there are no outliers. Also, all values are within 2 standard deviations of the mean. We have replaced “amazingly” with “interestingly” See response to Dr. Virotsko’s comment. We have run the statistical test again and confirmed that there is no significant difference in tracer uptake between pancreas and blood. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 14 Nov 2016 Ahmed Abbas , Western University, London, Canada 14 Nov 2016 Author Response We apologize if the rationale of the study was not clear. We have added “in the context of a reporter gene” to line 14 of the Introduction to ... Continue reading We apologize if the rationale of the study was not clear. We have added “in the context of a reporter gene” to line 14 of the Introduction to clarify the need to produce a clinically applicable PET tracer. We have clarified our presentation of the VMAT2 findings. We have adjusted the arrowhead to indicate a region of high uptake and indicated the location of the spleen. We have tested for the presence of outliers in the Akita pancreas bioD (Figure 2A) as suggested. Based on Grubb’s test for outliers (alpha = 0.05), there are no outliers. Also, all values are within 2 standard deviations of the mean. We have replaced “amazingly” with “interestingly” See response to Dr. Virotsko’s comment. We have run the statistical test again and confirmed that there is no significant difference in tracer uptake between pancreas and blood. We apologize if the rationale of the study was not clear. We have added “in the context of a reporter gene” to line 14 of the Introduction to clarify the need to produce a clinically applicable PET tracer. We have clarified our presentation of the VMAT2 findings. We have adjusted the arrowhead to indicate a region of high uptake and indicated the location of the spleen. We have tested for the presence of outliers in the Akita pancreas bioD (Figure 2A) as suggested. Based on Grubb’s test for outliers (alpha = 0.05), there are no outliers. Also, all values are within 2 standard deviations of the mean. We have replaced “amazingly” with “interestingly” See response to Dr. Virotsko’s comment. We have run the statistical test again and confirmed that there is no significant difference in tracer uptake between pancreas and blood. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Virostko J. Reviewer Report For: Characterization of 5-(2- 18 F-fluoroethoxy)-L-tryptophan for PET imaging of the pancreas [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1851 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9823.r15266 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1851/v1#referee-response-15266 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 29 Jul 2016 John Virostko , Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9823.r15266 This manuscript describes the use of the PET tracer [18F]-L-FEHTP in an attempt to image beta cell mass. Pancreatic uptake of the tracer is high. However, while experiments in Akita mice show a slight (but highly variable) decline in pancreatic ... Continue reading READ ALL 