I support indexing this article as it as it appears to be a first-time test of the utility of Respondent Driven Sampling (RDS), a relatively novel sampling procedure, on a new "hidden" (hard to easily access) population--wheelchair riders. In this case it was not successful in recruiting sufficient respondents, but reporting that, and possible reasons for that outcome, could be useful for refining usage of the procedure. I think the title and abstract are clear and provide good insight into the major points of the paper. In addition to the possible reasons for low returns provided by the author I think it would be useful to include consideration of; The typically low returns from internet surveys compared to face to face and pencil and paper surveys (see 1,2,3). It is possible that promoting an internet survey was just insufficient to motivate the "seeds", or the second wave recruits, to recruit more members into the network, even with an iPad reward incentive. Elaborating on the "stigmatization" issue raised in the discussion. The "mechanism by which perceived stigma may effect RDS sampling" rather than being unknown, may well be that other groups e.g., drug users, "men who have sex with men"(MSM), sex-workers etc as a result of stigma, may have stronger social networks and obvious gathering spaces and be easier to access via seeds. Seeds with these groups are often "leaders", advocates who are "out", support group leaders, health service liaison/volunteer workers who move easily within those communities, social gatherings, entertainment or work spaces. There are not the same social presses for wheelchair riders to have these group social connections or common activities. Methodological point. The article focuses on RDS's value for accessing representative population samples for research seeking normative and epidemiological data and concomitant importance of avoiding/controlling sample selection bias. However, RDS could also be valuable for accessing qualitative data e.g., wheelchair riders' views/experiences with public policies/services etc where as wide a range of responses (variability) should be expected, indeed welcomed, rather than seen as requiring some statistical weighting or control procedure. Other forms of criterion for data "completeness" e.g., saturation could be used here. Another use for RDS is just to collect as large a sample as possible in hidden groups regardless of their representativeness. For example, RDS "seeds" have been used to recruit as many MSM as possible in "test and treat" outreach campaigns for blood testing for HIV and ante-retroviral treatment programs. Overall a potentially useful addition to methodological literature on sampling procedures.