In this paper, Kalathur et al. investigated the role of the ERs unfolded protein response (UPR) in the disease pathogenesis of Huntingtons Disease (HD). Although HTT, the protein mutated in HD, does not localize to the ER, mutated HTT intereferes with downstream UPR processes, which may prevent the UPR from functioning normally and thus result in the induction of apoptosis by the UPR, which in turn could underlie the dramatic neuronal loss observed in HD. To broadly evaluate the role of UPR activation in the many experimental HD models and contexts, the authors used a bioinformatics approach to query for the role of the UPR in HD pathology, assessing transcriptomes, regulatory DNA elements, and UPR interactomes. The resulting data point to a core set of UPR genes that were commonly (although, as nicely pointed out, not universally) up- or downregulated in distinct experimental HD models, pro-inflammatory events involving microglia, a putative link between HD and diabetes/hyperglycemia, and the identification of a core set of genes that link UPR to apoptotic signaling and that mHTT may impinge upon. Overall, this is a nice body of work. This computational analysis is comprehensive and multifaceted, the data interpretation measured and well-qualified, the paper well written, and the data are very accessible. One of the key strengths is that the authors aimed to integrate data obtained in many diferent experimental HD systems - various mouse models, human data, and even yeast and rat models. This comprehensive approach allows them to point to evolutionarily conserved genes and processes as suitable candidates for future investigation. Specific criticism: To derive their set of HTT interacting proteins, the authors use a dataset downloaded from HDNetDB database, which yields a large set of HTT interactors (HTT-int) including 1015 genes, including, as acknowledged, presumably many indirect interactors. Perhaps a deeper up-front curation for putative direct interactors would have been useful. In Figure 2, the authors assess the overlap between genes regulated in 6 mouse HD datasets and one human HD. To ensure best stringency, the first limit the mouse dataset to those genes that are regulated in all 6 individual datasets. While this high stringency is laudable, one could have also lowered the stringency a bit in regards to inclusion in the core mouse IPR set, i.e. inclusion in 6/6 sets was deemed required, but expanding the set to 5/6 or even 4/6, resulting in 420 and 902 additional genes, respectively, would have only marginally lowered the stringency while providing a larger set for the determination of evolutionary conservation. 