I think that this is an interesting paper that should be published. Often, gene expression patterns are clustered and TF binding sites are used as features to build a classifier for identifying the cluster to which those genes belong or similar schemes such as clustering TFs and gene expression together- see Clements et al 1 and Berman et al 2 . However, a biologist may want to identify what TFs regulate a specific gene of interest. They could then use the 'Bray-Curtis Similarity' index to find a set of genes whose expression pattern is similar to their gene of interest. Then, they can use the pipeline presented here to identify features that are predictive of this kind of gene expression pattern. They also create a scheme to test how different combinations of features from different experiments influence their predictions. I think that the text would garner much more interest if it focused more on the research questions that are being addressed. The method details are discussed in depth, but the big picture is hard to find amidst the details. Main points: One of the main things that bothers me about the Bray-Curtis Similarity metric is that it seems to assume that tissues are independently sampled. However. we see from Fig.1 that there are many brain samples that seem to (at least in the three genes shown) have similar gene expression values. Is there a lot of covariance between gene expression values in pairs of tissues? If so, is there a way to adjust this metric to acknowledge stratification of the tissues. I don't think that the whole paper needs to be re-written with a new metric, but it would be nice if the authors address this directly. Another issue I have is with this metric is that it uses RPKM gene expression values in the Bray-Curtis Similarity metric. Imagine that two genes have extremely high gene expression values in some tissue (like the brain) and low values in another tissue (like the pancreas). However, one of these genes is always expressed at 10 times the level of the other gene. Lets say that a third gene has almost no change of gene expression value across the tissues but has a mean RPKM that is similar to the first gene's mean RPKM. Would the Bray-Curtis SImilarity metric say that gene 1 and 2 are more similar? Or gene 1 and 3? If gene 1 and 3, then this might be resolved by comparing z-scores or otherwise normalising gene expression values across tissues. Every time a machine learning method is named, it should be clear: (1) what are the input features (ii) what are the labels -- i.e. what is being classified (iii) what is the cross-validation or training-testing-validation scheme. Since there are so many machine learning things being done, it is hard sometimes to make sense of what is being done in each specific case. For the method described in (B) in Fig 1: Does it necessarily make sense to compare the 'most similar' to the 'least similar'? Genes that have exactly the opposite gene expression pattern to the one you are interested might be tightly regulated by a different set of TFs. You might be picking up this signal instead of the one you care about! This might be an even bigger issue since you are using raw gene expression values-- genes that are very highly or very lowly expressed in all tissues might always come up in your negative set. Biologists don't just want good classifiers, they want feature selection! Can you show the Gini scores of the features in a supplemental table? Smaller changes: Is all the code for generating every figure available online? Let's help make research reproducible. If you have 10 values (from cross validation), why don't you show them all in Figure 4 so we can evaluate the spread. "Our in-silico mutation analyses revealed that some deleterious TFBS mutations could be compensated for by other information-dense clusters in the same promoter 2 ; thus, predicting the effects of mutations in individual binding sites might not be sufficient to interpret downstream effects without considering their context." This is something that me and my collaborators have recently studied 3 . Don't feel pressure to add this citation-- I just thought it would be interesting for you to read! (Also, thanks for discussing IDBC in this paper-- I hadn't heard of it before but it would be relevant to my research.) It would be great if you discussed how Bray-Curtis is used in other fields in the Discussion. Better subsection names in the results section - emphasizing the biological conclusions rather than what was done. 