Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper. This is a study protocol of a study to assess the effectiveness of an educational intervention to non-specialist doctors and nurses in public facilities in two cities in Malaysia, that provide Diabetes care to improve their knowledge, skills and practice with respect to the treatment of Diabetes. By proposing a mixed-methods study, they also aim to understand the processes through which this might occur and the specific contextual characteristics of the facilities that may facilitate improvements. By using the four-group design, they also aim to address concerns of classical pre-post test comparisons often used in the evaluation of the effectiveness of training/educational interventions. Overall comments Please revise carefully for grammatical errors. There are several minor grammatical errors. The entire article is written in the past tense and appears to indicate the study is now completed. However, I believe that is not the case as this is a study protocol. Please review. The current status and clarity on the timelines of the study need to be added. The background briefly summarises evidence around the effectiveness of CME. Authors state “Despite the importance of CME, few studies have measured the clinical impact of CME on diabetes in a real-world setting”. While I agree with this assertion, the definition of "CME" can be so broad so that the lack of evidence is also to do with the nature of various educational interventions that may not be going under the name CME. Overall, the background oversimplifies the complexity of educational intervention to professionals (doctors, nurses, health workers). The few interventions and reviews that the authors refer to had educational inputs as one among various other inputs within a complex intervention setting (for example Smith et al. 2004 1 ). Whereas other programs such as the GIANT study examined an intervention of training on the use of existing guidelines. Arguably, the interventions being cited in support are very diverse and complex and difficult to characterize as "…few studies have measured the clinical impact of CME". Indeed many of the studies cited do not use the term CME…..this section requires better synthesis of the literature cited and/or integrating specific systematic review evidence if available. Two pilots are mentioned. The rationale behind having two pilots, how the first one shaped the next one and how/what were the overall lessons learned from the pilots that informed the intervention design are not stated and appear to be useful contextual information in the protocol. The characterization of this study as impact evaluation, as opposed to being a study on the effectiveness may need some reflection. While these are - to some extent - overlapping and perhaps a matter of semantics in some cases, the objectives appear to be a study on the effectiveness of the intervention rather than an impact evaluation. Impact refers to the ability of the program to meet its ultimate goals of reducing DM burden, whereas the protocol largely sticks to proximate outcomes at the level of the direct participants of the program with some effort to go to patent-level and contextual factors. Suggest to revise this or else provide clearer justification in case impact evaluation is being retained. Objective 3 mentions the objective to examine the influence of contextual factors at the level of the health system and sociocultural levels. The protocol provides insufficient detail to understand how this is done. For example, which are the health system building blocks that they assess and how? What is clearly established is the factors at the level of health service (and not system). Similarly, insufficient details as to the framework/approaches to be used to assess socio-cultural levels (either in their quantitative component or in their qualitative component). A further minor point under study objectives is their characterization of a program objective/intention as a “hope”. Consider/review. Minor/optional comments/suggestions Abstract Please consider providing numbers of doctors and nurses recruited, word limit permitting Introduction The authors cite WHO: Global status report on noncommunicable diseases 2014 in support of their assertion for the highest prevalence of Diabetes in Malaysia in the Asia-pacific region. On p.244 of the report cited in table titled "Raised blood glucose (fasting glucose ≥7.0 mmol/l (126 mg/dl) or on medication for raised blood glucose or with a history of diagnosis of diabetes), the Crude adjusted estimates for Malaysia do not support this assertion. Clarify. “Out-reach” has been put in quotes. Unclear as to the purpose. Does this mean that these are not really functioning or are not actually providing outreach services. Authors’ assertion on majority of care for Diabetes occurring in public services should be supported with a reference. In other mixed health systems, evidence often is ambiguous on this. Authors state “The Malaysian healthcare delivery system is facing increasing pressure to provide quality care to patients with diabetes.”. Unclear as to pressure is being faced by whom? By communities/patients, funders, politically? Review and sharpen. Methods Methods are well described. Consider adding a section on the study setting to help readers understand the nature of populations that these clinics cater to and perhaps also brief overview of a typical clinic being included in the study in terms of its patient load and other health services characteristics. Adequacy of sample size for four-group design has been addressed, but this may require further details, especially if test scores and other quantitative variables do not show sufficient variation between groups (which may be the case?) Further details of the quantitative analysis in terms of variables to be used and how they will be analysed will be useful. While this is not absolutely essential, the study does not seem to clarify the possible pathways through which they expect the change to occur (where it does). Given the use of qualitative methods and convergent study design, it is useful to include a framework or a theory of change or a program logic that clarifies the possible pathways through which they expect the change to occur. Please treat this as a suggestion and not a comment that needs to be addressed. Expected outcomes do not report on any outcomes from the qualitative data component. 