 Abstract “Such experiences suggest that it is not only technical capacity, for example analytical techniques for conducting economic evaluation, but also management, coordination and communication capacity that support the generation and use of HTA evidence in the respective settings" The above statement is not exactly clear from the country write ups. Perhaps authors could stress on each component (i.e. management, coordination and communication) in each case, by pointing out clearly how this happened for each case in the narrative. For example authors made mention of some delays in the conduct of capacity building activities in some settings due to inadequate management ability of focal point institutes. This is not clearly presented in the narrative. We suggest this be clearly outlined in the narrative for each case or for those that it is applicable before those conclusions are made in the abstract. Main text The objectives of the paper do not come out clearly. Since the focus of the paper is on HTA capacity building, it would be great to tease out for each case: What kind of trainings were given The baseline skills of staff trained e.g. for researchers, did they have any basic understanding of HTA? How these people were selected If they required to have some particular basic skills before they qualified to be trained For each case study, readers would benefit from a highlight The stage of HTA institutionalisation they were in The challenges of the capacity development project Supportive factors The type of stakeholders that were involved in the process Participation of stakeholders; their involvement and how that facilitated the process (this is done very well for the Philippines case study) For the Colombian case, readers would benefit from a brief comment on the types of national health insurance that existed, how HTA is been used for each and its challenges like the numerous context in courts, highlighting on the reasons for the context, before this is introduced under the discussion section. As it stands now, readers will need priori knowledge of the Columbian health system and national health insurance scheme to understand and appreciate the context under which the discussion is made. Discussion The paper could benefit from the following discussion points (that is if authors have such information) Since for each case study, each country was at a different stage of HTA and its use in decision making, it would be great to highlight on the skill set that was already available for countries such as the Philippines and Columbia, and the difference it made in terms of knowledge transfer Did the context under which HITAP and NICE went to develop capacity in each case affect the whole process of HTA institutionalization, including capacity development: in terms of acceptance, preparations for it, etc. Were the challenges, available skills, supportive factors and stakeholder participation differ from case to case especially in terms of the stage of HTA that they were in? Authors need to review the text for some language errors. For instance, there are some typos under limitations section on page 8 and future challenges section on page 9 and some incomplete sentences. 