Summary: This paper reports on new sequence data on the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in Morocco. Through phylogenetic analyses they identify 4 distinct introductions to Morocco from distinct European origins followed by local transmissions. The analysis are OK, but need some additional work (see below). Specifically, there are no bootstrap analyses discussed to provide confidence in the resulting phylogenetic relationships (the main result of the paper). The authors use an excellent sampling strategy, focusing on Moroccan sequences and then those available from two weeks before the first known case in Morocco and two weeks after the closing of the boarders. Their data are deposited with GISAID and thereby publicly available (with some effort and approval), but they also provide their entire working set on GitHub. Excellent! This is the way to do open science which is so critical for the COVID studies. However, the nomenclatural approach is confusing and the phylogenetic presentation could use some help. There are a lot of different things going on with this analysis (lots of different metadata to focus on) and the authors could do a better job of making things more clear in their presentation. Below are some ideas to help with both the analyses and interpretation. Abstract/Results spike gene variant associated ‘with virus severity’ – this doesn’t make sense to me. What does it mean to have a severe virus? Do you mean severity in clinical outcomes? Methods/Data Set – you say 500 sequences were selected from GISAID both before and after the initial case in Morocco. I cannot, however, get a feel for the relative split or the relative timeline. It would be really helpful to have a graph that had time along the x-axis (perhaps by week or something) and then different colors for the pre-GISAID, post-GISAID, and Moroccan sequences. Methods/Phylogenetic analysis – the authors state the ‘model was created using RaxML’. First, RAxML doesn’t create models. It estimates phylogenies. Second, it needs a model to do this. What model was used in this analysis? There is an updated version of ModelTest, ModelTest-NG https://academic.oup.com/mbe/article/37/1/291/5552155 that helps with optimizing a model of evolution for a data set to then feed into RAxML. I recommend the authors use this tool to justify a model choice, report the model, and then use it for the ML estimate. Then ‘FigTree’ doesn’t ‘generate’ a tree, it is a tool for phylogeny visualization. I would recommend iToL as an alternative. iTOL also allows for more legible mapping of metadata on the phylogeny: https://itol.embl.de/ Given that the phylogeny seems to be the main result, the authors should conduct a bootstrap analysis with at least 1000 replicates and show bootstrap support values on the phylogeny as an assessment of confidence. In general, no details of the analyses are provided and it is therefore impossible to replicate the study. The authors simply list software. They need to be more explicit about how they actually ran their analyses. Some pretty specific information is provided on patients, e.g., ‘French male tourist’ with a date of the case report. I’m wondering if these individuals are consented to participate in the research and be effectively identified. This seems pretty specific. There is no information about consent. Results/Phylogenetic analyses – the phylogenetic results are difficult to read. The image is low resolution, so if I zoom in on the pdf, it just gets blurry. There are a different nomenclatures being thrown about (A1, A1, GR, GH, etc.) and it is hard to find these groups on the tree and or their significance. There are no bootstrap values, so there is no confidence in the presented relationships. Again, if the authors us iTOL, they can make a more effective presentation with better labels on the tree. I don’t see the pink clade on the main tree at all. In the text, everything is presented in terms of GISAID accessions, which is nice for track but not for presentation. It would be better if the authors relabeled things in the supplementary table with more accessible labels like Moroc1, Franc1, Spain1, etc., and then not list every isolate in a clade in the text. It would be even more informative if you included isolation date in the name, e.g., Moroc1_3_21. This would allow readers to immediately interpret the phylogeny. As it is, it is uninformative with respect to isolation date and difficult to identify isolates from different countries. Then in the sequence variant network analysis, the nomenclature seems changed again. Now there are things called ‘IPMx’. I don’t understand why this network analysis is not done in the context of the other non-Moroccan sequences. Given the phylogenetic result that the Moroccan sequences don’t form a cluster by themselves, but rather cluster with other sequences with distinct geographic origins, it makes no sense to analyze them by themselves here. You are just picking up variants that differentiate the geographic clades and assigning them (incorrectly) to the Moroccan sequences. It would be much more powerful to compare the Moroccan sequences to the others WITHIN EACH CLADE as this allows for effectively independent replicates of viral adaptation to Moroccan hosts. Then you can look for convergently evolved changes associated with the Moroccan isolates. Tables 1, 2, 3 should identify the nonsynonymous changes (e.g., show the amino acid replacement in the same way you show the nucleotide substitution). 