The article explains how bias arises in meta-analysis and explains how, in theory, one can nonetheless control the error rate through use of the likelihood ratio statistic. I found the use of the likelihood ratio quite interesting. 2.2, p. 4 "This is also the case when the timing of the meta-analysis is based on an (overly) optimistic last study estimate or an (overly) optimistic meta-analysis synthesis is considered the final one." Section 3, p. 4. "We denote this example ..." How about "We CALL this example ..." (3.1a), p. 5: I think it should just be n i , not √ n i . [Maybe not?] p. 5: "... if the study shows a significant positive effect" So you are doing one-sided tests. Why do you do alpha/2-size tests, for example 0.025? Why not alpha-size, for example 0.05? Getting a significantly low Z can have the interpretation that that treatment being tested seems to actually be harmful. Therefore no further studies should be done with it. p. 5: Why is T ≥ t + 1? Why might the current study ultimately prove to be the last one? p. 6: It seems that the P in (3.2) has nothing to do with the null and alternative hypotheses. That P has to do with the behavior of researchers. p. 6: The rate 2.5/(2.5+1.9) might be justified by observing that that number is just the conditional probability of getting a positive finding conditional on another study being done. p. 6: "As a result, study series that contain more significant studies have larger probabilities to come into existence than those that contain less." That sentence is vague. p. 6: There appears to be a typographical error in formula (3.3). The factors alpha/2 and (1-alpha) shouldn't be in the numerator. However, the value 0.487 on the right-hand side is correct. (Checked by simulation.) p. 6: "... the last study is unbiased ..." What do you mean by "last study", the Tth study? The last study before what? Let S denote the number of studies available at the time of the meta-analysis. S is random. But the Sth study is not unbiased (given that there will be a meta-analysis) because the decision to do the meta-analysis partly depends on the outcome of study S. Since the subject of the paper is meta-analysis, it is the first S studies, i.e., the studies available at the time of the meta-analysis, that are relevant. Suppose U is a fixed or random time that is statistically independent of the study series. Is the last study before U unbiased? What if the last study before U was published 50 years ago? The fact that no study has been done in 50 years probably says something about the outcome of the last study. So even though U is independent of the study series, conditional on the event that no study has been done in the last 50 years prior to U, that last study is not unbiased. (Perhaps one should pay attention not just to the number of studies that have been performed but also to when they were performed.) It is very difficult to identify a study that is unbiased conditional on everything one knows about the study series. Instead of looking at past studies, one could look at a future study. One might say "I will start a meta-analysis after the next study is completed". The next study would be unbiased, but what if there are no further studies? That strategy would work if one knew for sure that there will be a study. For example, if you knew at time U that some researchers have already started -- but not completed -- a study. p. 7: "inflation actual inflation" looks like a typo. p. 7: Equation (3.5). Have you defined the P̃ 0 notation? I think you should one sided-tests. (See above.) p. 8: Probability Notation is a conditional probability. The notation “ z 1 ,…, Zt ” for a study series apparently hasn't been introduced yet. p. 9: I don't understand the footnote. P. 10: I don't understand the sentence "In this section we assume that the timing of the meta-analysis test is independent from the estimates that determined the size of the series." p. 15: "But this effects will be ..." Perhaps this should be "But THESE effects will be ...". p. 16: "... which has the same meaning as the fraction ..." Perhaps this should be "... which has the same meaning as the RATIO ..." P. 16: "The likelihood ratio is a test statistic that depends on the specification ..." Perhaps this should be "The likelihood ratio is a test statistic that ONLY depends on the specification ..." p. 16: "Any data sampled from an alternative distribution will have the same analysis time probabilities as data ..." I prefer "GIVEN THE DATA, any data sampled from an alternative distribution will have the same analysis time probabilities as data ..." p. 17: The authors sometimes introduce symbols without defining them. For example, I couldn't find any place where the symbol γ is defined. From context one can figure out what it means, but I would prefer if it were defined somewhere. p. 19: "In contrast to an all-or-nothing test for one study, inspecting the betting profit of a study is a way to test the data without loosing the ability..." I think it should be "In contrast to an all-or-nothing test for one study, inspecting the betting profit of a study is a way to test the data without LOSING the ability...". 