Delory et al. present an extension package for ArchiDart that allows the user to compute topological descriptors of branching plant shapes. The contribution is valuable for the community of researchers studying plant morphology. I do recognize that this was a lot of work to implement. I have several suggestions to improve the paper for the readers and the user community. The paper gives overall a good intuition of how topological indices of branching structures are computed. Yet, the detail for further exploration is missing. Looking at the code and the paper, it was unclear to me how a user can change the function used to expand over the surface of the branching structure. Currently only the geodesic distance is used to extract a homology of a given branching structure. Does the code provide an interface to choose the function? In my opinion, It would be good to have a pseudo code to the paper that allows to see into the many functions used in the R implementation. The capabilities of the software were demonstrated nicely on simulated branching structures. While the results are convincing for “perfect data” I missed a validation on noisy and incomplete data. In other words, I couldn’t find evidence on the robustness of the method and if it would translate to branching structures extracted from imaging data. It would be good to know for the reader which quality criteria apply to the input data and what are the limitations if data is partial. That way the code becomes useful for many more applications. I do appreciate the contribution a lot and know the previous papers referenced in the manuscript. However, for a new reader it is very difficult to follow all the cross-references in the paper. I would like to see a one or two sentence summary of concepts for each referenced paper that contributes to the content of the presented software paper. For example: “A nice explanation of how persistent homology can be applied to capture plant topologies is provided in 12 ” - Until here it is not clear what persistent homology is, nor the concept of homology groups is explained sufficiently. The reader needs to read to more papers in order to understand H 0 groups etc. In part this can be resolved by being clear in the preceding description of a graph and how the geodesic distance is measured on it. It is left to the reader to assume an unknown embedding of the graph in to a metric space. Currently, the graph is only introduced by having nodes and edges. Intuitively I would expect the distance between two nodes to be the number of edges between to nodes. Yet later on it is talked about the geodesic distance on the graph. I assume that the graph is embedded in an Euclidean space and the “straight edges” might be curves for which the curve length is taken to calculate the geodesic distance between any two nodes. Or did I got this wrong? More precision in the mathematical language would be helpful. Similar issues are present elsewhere in the manuscript whenever the explanation is referenced to another paper, e.g. to Archidart 1.0. A confusing aspect of the paper is that Archidart 1.0 has Archidart 3.0 as a follow up. Did I miss something? You state that Archidart 3.0 implements 5 new functions compared to Archidart 1.0. None of the functions presented in table 1 refer to Archidart 2.0. Should the presented version be Archidart 2.0? A very general comment: It is nothing new that geometry and topology are needed to quantify shapes. Work of Biassotti, Spagnuolo, Veltkamp etc. show that since many years. May be most closely related to the paper here is the paper Biasotti, Silvia et al. (2008) 1 that discusses the interplay of geometry and topology for skeletal shape analysis. Many other papers show the same. 