The authors present a useful Cytoscape app that fills in an important void not provided by the parent application: dynamically transitioning between distinct network states or associated visualized datasets. The application is thus novel and provides an important function in Cytoscape that could significantly assist with biological interpretation. Major Point 1: The authors state: Note that CyAnimator is only able to animate between networks in the same network collection. Can a network collection be different networks that share some or all of the same nodes? If not, I understand how this could be a technical limitation of the app, but would be of particular use when curating distinct pathway states from an original network. Often, adding, subtracting, moving and re-coloring nodes in succession to different states in the same network instances is challenging, but storing these as distinct snap shots that can be animated together is extremely powerful. If not present, is this a future option? Major Point 2: The shown movie is a reasonable simple demonstration of CyAnimator, however, this does not show of the more interesting dynamic options of the tools, such as transitioning between different developmental or temporal states (node color attributes, aka gene expression fold differences) or temporally distinct interactions for a given pathway (e.g., chain of metabolic events). While I realize this would be some work to do, this would more strongly demonstrate the capabilities of the software. Minor Point: One of the powerful uses of this software would be via programmatic generation of animations, by defining network states and visual parameters. While I know that some of these capabilities are embedded in Cytoscape 3, are these possible within CyAnimator for the purpose of making animations outside of the UI? If so, can the authors provide an example set of code to do this? A link to documentation or a tutorial would also be helpful for the end-users to properly use the software. 