The work quite clearly cites the current and latest literature regarding the HIV disease transmission dynamics in Pakistan and also cites other such studies conducting in different prisons of Pakistan. The study design is appropriate and the study has been conducted in the most difficult and remote prison in Pakistan giving good insight on conditions prevalent in such remote prison settings. The study design was appropriate and a good number of prison inmates (2084) were selected. As with other similar studies the prevalence found was more than the one in the general population which warrants that urgent preventive measures should be taken to control spread of this infection in this closed population. In Pakistan, outbreaks of HIV have been reported in different jails of the country in the past. Sensational reports came in the media regarding outbreak of HIV in different prisons but no scientific studies were carried out to determine the reasons of this spread. This study is a good effort to highlight the prevalent conditions and risks for spread of HIV in prison settings. The study outlines the risk factors associated with HIV transmission in this population as part of the general population but does not shed ample light on prevailing high-risk behaviours inside the prisons that may have led to transmission of this disease in the prisons. Thus, most of the readers would be interested whether high risk behaviours are prevalent in these prisons and whether drugs and injectable equipment is available in the prisons. Having said that it is not easy to divulge upon these areas since most prison authorities deny prevalence of such practices in their jurisdiction and do not allow such questions to be asked and explored by investigators. It is therefore conceivable that the of this study questionnaire must have been cleared and vetted by the jail authorities and therefore such information could not be explored during this study. As far as the methods of analysis was concerned the details provided were quite useful for other investigators to replicate such a study. Details were provided on statistical tools applied and used. The conclusion drawn are in line with the findings of the study. We lack data on prevalent behaviours of prison inmates in different prisons in Pakistan and such similar studies are needed to advocate and start prevention interventions in these settings in the country. 