Thodberg and Sandelin describe a comprehensive workflow for the basic analysis of CAGE data. The workflow is simple, well-presented and the code mostly runs without problems. I only have a few minor comments to improve its usefulness for the general reader: There should be a general overview on how the CTSS BigWig files are generated from raw FASTQ files. Consider using ExperimentHub for the nanotubes package. This provides greater control over which files are downloaded, rather than forcing the user to obtain all files at installation. This is especially useful if you have multiple data sets - see, for example, the chipseqDBData package. 1 Explain what a BigWigFileList is, and why it needs to be used instead of having a simple character vector. Consider not having string'ified intervals as the row names in the output of quickTSSs(). In some situations, generation of the strings can use more RAM than the actual data itself. It definitely slows down any attempt to 'show' the output. I would suggest that this be deferred as late as possible, e.g., until someone needs the strings as row names of a data frame to save to file. More details are required on how quantification is performed. For example, I assume counts are summed directly from single strands for TSSs. For enhancers, are counts summed from both strands? "As enhancers are the most complicated type, we keep only enhancers if a TSS and enhancer overlaps:" The complexity of the enhancers doesn't really provide a motivation for only keeping enhancers in cases of overlaps. The better reason is that all enhancers would be detected as two TSSs if the strandedness was ignored; if they do overlap, it would be more appropriate to interpret them as a single enhancer rather than as two distinct TSS events. The Interquartile Range (IQR)... of what? I assume that the range refers to the length of the interval that contains 10 to 90% of a TSS's counts. Incidentally, the IQR is no longer an IQR if it's redefined from 10-90%. The single quotes in the highTSSs call are malformed, which prevents copy-pasting. One could consider using a 2-component mixture model to classify elements into sharp/broad in a more automated manner. I presume that the pairwise correlations for the TSS-enhancer interactions are computed across samples for each TSS/enhancer pair. If so, is this done after blocking on the design? Otherwise it is possible to obtain strong positive correlations simply because a TSS and the enhancer happen to respond in the same direction to a given treatment. If there is a genuine physical interaction, it should manifest as correlations within each treatment condition, where stochastic differences in RNA polymerase activity affect both the TSS and its interacting enhancer. There is no correction for multiple testing in the p-values from the links. While I recognise that this is a limitation of the small sample size, it should still be pointed out as a caveat of the analysis. All normalization steps in the DE analyses assume that most of the input features are not differentially expressed between conditions. This is usually not a concern, but if aggressive feature selection is performed, it may become a problem. For example, if one were to perform the DE analysis on superenhancers only, it would give incorrect results in situations where the superenhancer activity increases globally upon treatment. 