The study provides perinatal mortality as a performance indicator for measuring the effectiveness of hospitals. This study is important since most studies usually rely on maternal mortalities as indicators. However, since most perinatal deaths are underreported, especially in developing countries, the findings of this study provide a basis for documenting these deaths to report them to use the data to come up with interventions to improve service delivery. The literature review is current and accurately presented. However, some references need to be checked and corrected for 11,14,15, 16, 20, 42. The methodology is appropriate and scientifically sound. Statistical analysis is adequate though a review by a statistician would be recommended. Study findings are adequately presented in tables however some issues indicated below need to be clear: It would be good to know what tier the public hospitals (p1, P2 and P3) were to explain certain factors like caesarean section rates based on patient turnover and hospital level. If they are referral hospitals then high CS rates could be due to the kind of emergency cases they receive. What is the difference between PFP and FBO? Aren’t they both private just that one is for profit and the other not for profit? This would help clarify the odds ratio for caesarean section rates. Since the study relied on hospital records, it would be important to understand how they handled missing data and how what impact it had on their findings. Authors should provide a table showing correlations and test of associations Discussion The link between high CS rates and “because of financial incentives” is unclear whether there is a proven causal relationship between the two to justify the statement. The authors mention in the final paragraph on Pg. 6 about inspection of health facilities by the MOH. Since these facilities are under the County government, and with devolution there are structures in place to ensure inspection of health facilities and roles are clear for national and County government. The statement provided in this paragraph may need to be revised to consider the current structures that are in place to monitor and regulate the County hospitals and clearly bring out the role of national government in these facilities. Recommendations for future/further research needs to be provided. *Revise some grammatical errors in text 