This is a sound piece of work. Some points to consider regarding the article: Methods: The detailed description of the institutional procedures is a merit to this paper as it facilitates comparison of the results to other institutions. Were the parturients allocated into the different anesthesia groups according to the intended anesthesia type or final anesthesia type (is failed epidural top-up resulting in GA analyzed as epidural top-up or GA)? Was the rate of regional anesthesia failures addressed? Regarding epidural top-ups: The "start anesthesia to ready for surgery" is surprisingly fast for the epidural group given that ropivacaine (7.5 mg/ml) is used as the epidural anesthetic. It is stated in the paper that the top-up was initiated at the labour ward before transfer to the operating room which can be considered safe even in the absence of haemodynamic monitoring during transfer IF: a) the attending anesthesiologist is following the parturient to the operating room in these cases and b) the distance (=transfer time) from the labour room to the operating room is not long. It would be helpful for the reader to see a brief description about the underlying labour analgesia system used (continuous infusion vs boluses on demand with or without background infusion) for the parturients with epidural catheters as this may have a major effect on the onset time of epidural top-up. General comments: As the authors note in the discussion, it is evident that GA is more likely to be chosen in the more urgent cases (evident also as a 2 minutes lower median "call to start of anesthesia -time" and worse infant outcome parameters). This underlying difference in the obstetric urgency affects direct comparison of the anesthesia modes on outcome DDI times and could warrant presentation of the data in Table 2 separately for the GA cases as well as for the regional cases (even separately for all three anesthesia subgroups). Ultimately this study provides important aspects in relation to the very similar overall DDI time when either spinal anesthesia or epidural anesthesia is employed (Table 1 and Figure 2) while showing that GA results in superior outcome DDI times - at least when obstetric emergency requires. 