The paper by Wild and colleagues investigates the question of how Herpes virus assembles, a story that has been under debate for decades. This family of DNA viruses assemble in the nucleus and thereafter opinions differ as to how the virus gets out of the cell. The bulk of the data are based on high pressure freezing and freeze substitution and are of exceptionally high quality. However, I had a hard time trying to figure out what the point of the paper was. The title suggests a virus-induced ‘transition’ between ER and Golgi. I don't understand what they conclude about the ER-Golgi nor what it means for the virus. Virus-induced implies a difference between infected and uninfected cells. The only image of an uninfected cell is the IF image in Fig 1. I don't see much difference in the pattern of GM-130 labeling, a marker of early Golgi compartments. They show no EM images of uninfected cell Golgi. I had a serious problem also trying to understand how they could distinguish between the three models shown in Fig 11. I could not follow their logic. In my opinion to do this in a satisfactory was they would need to use host cell markers for the different Golgi compartments with use of some viral membrane markers. To be able to give directionality to their static images they would also need e.g an inducible system whereby they could block some stages of assembly and then release the block and follow kinetically where the accumulated viral proteins move to-with respect to host compartment markers. No compartment of the Golgi can be unequivocally identified without a marker. The paper is not well described. For example the two virus mutants R7041 and R2641 are not well described. Why are they interesting? At the end of the discussion we learn that Us3 is a kinase. I could not find the interpretation for the acronym PNS, I eventually figured out it means peri nuclear space. In the background part they describe how gB/gH are reported as being essential for de-envelopment –the fusion step after budding into the nuclear envelope. When these proteins are missing one would expect enveloped virus to accumulate in the NE/ER. Yet they write- under this condition lots of capsids (without membrane) accumulate- and even infectious virus- so there must be an alternative exit route. As a question of logic the reader may ask: maybe the idea that these proteins are essential for de-envelopment is wrong? Their description of the data on Us3 deletion mutants is not well explained. The close connection between the ER and the Golgi in uninfected cells has been seen by many EM studies, going back to Albert Claude 1970, Rambourg and many others. It is also not true as stated in the 1 st paragraph of their Discussion that the Golgi ‘disintegrates rapidly after improper fixation’-unless one forgets to add the aldehyde. They show a nice example of normal fixation in Fig 10B. I take issue with their claim that the 3D structure of the Golgi is poorly understood because of poor preservation. It is poorly understood because the organelle is complex and because one lacks systems to identify the different compartments in the same sections. I of course accept their claim that freeze substitution is the preferred option. The images from BFA treated cells are impressive but I’m not sure that I get a real take home message from these experiments. The Golgi fuses back with the ER; there is accumulation of budded virions in the ER. I cannot see a clear interpretation. The long paragraph in the beginning of page 10, dealing with the mutants is especially difficult to follow- e.g what does ‘accidentally proved’ mean? Among the many issues I have with their three models (Fig 11) I ask: how do they distinguish between budding into a Golgi compartment and wrapping? Model 1 is the only one devoid of A. cytoplasmic capsids and B. ‘wrapping’ profiles. Doesn't this rule out this model? They poorly describe how they quantify virus particles in the different locations by EM. They must surely be referring the budding profiles to membrane length or compartment volume? (Page 4). The Conclusion part is also very difficult to relate to. Bottom of page 8 Dilates mis-spelt as ‘Delates’. Beginning of page 7 there is no word I know of in English – Exceptionalness’. It is a pity that such technically nice work is not supported by clarity of writing. 