The study provides basic information about the frequencies of gastrointestinal parasites among children of a school in Sudan. The findings of this study may be useful to people of public health interest in the local region but can not be generalised. The following observations were noted while reviewing this manuscript: Title: Since the study: a. detects only the intestinal parasites, b. does not reveal anything about the clinical symptoms of parasitic infections and c. involves children of only one school, the title should be changed to 'Frequencies of gastrointestinal parasites among students of a primary school in Al Kalakla Locality, Khartoum State, Sudan: a cross-sectional study'. Methods: Study population : The authors should clearly mention how the sampling was determined and how each of the participants was selected (e.g, random sampling). Identification of parasites : The information (whole paragraph) about identification of parasites should be mentioned/moved after the last concentration method (i.e just before data analysis). Saturated sugar flotation technique: The first and second sentences can be joined with removal of full stop after first sentence and use of 'and' 3rd line: 'sample of fecal' should be 'fecal sample'. Data analysis : specificity should be determined by multiplication of the fraction by 100 (not by 10). The authors should clearly mention (under 'Methods') whether all the samples were subject to examination by all the three methods in the study. Results The term 'occurrence' would be better than 'prevalence' (which has its specific epidemiological meaning) in the title/contents of first two paragraphs. 3rd line of 2nd paragraph : 'years ' should be added after the age groups mentioned (i.e, 6–8, 9–11 and 12–14 years). Discussion First sentence: The study done at one school can not be generalised. This sentence can be restructured as ' It was evident from the results that the overall occurrence of gastrointestinal parasites among children of a school (school name can be mentioned ) in Al-kalakla was high........ The study needs to discuss the reasons for higher occurrence: a. of the parasites in this study compared to that of other studies, b.of the parasites in females compared in males c. of the parasites in 12–14 years of age group compared in other age groups. Conclusion: The study done at one school can not be generalised. The authors can note the first comment made under 'discussion' and conclude accordingly. 