In this opinion article, Dowd et al. propose a new approach for tuberculosis (TB) prevention, based on BCG vaccination and poverty reduction strategies. The article is well written, logically organized, and scientifically sound. After reviewing the evidence on immune pathways involved in protection from TB, they describe host factors associated with vaccine efficacy, and address socioeconomic and psychosocial factors affecting immunity. They argue convincingly that there exist several research gaps about the pathways connecting social factors, the immune response elicited by the BCG vaccine, and TB prevention. They recommend the establishment of a new “Social Technology Lab”, an interdisciplinary partnership aiming to address these knowledge gaps. This is a promising and innovative proposal in the context of the worldwide burden of TB and obstacles faced toward designing a more efficacious TB vaccine. The authors’ rationale rests on the highly variable efficacy of BCG, as observed across several populations. They provide credible evidence that differences in vaccine efficacy may very well be related to varying socioeconomic and psychosocial factors across study populations. They also document that the host immune environment can modulate TB risk and thus modify the effect of the BCG vaccine. One aspect that seems to be missing from this conceptual framework is that vaccine characteristics are likely related to vaccine efficacy. Indeed, some authors have reported that BCG substrain and route of vaccination influenced BCG virulence and efficacy 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . The article would be strengthened by including a few sentences describing the state of knowledge on vaccine characteristics and how they relate to efficacy. This could be integrated in the section “BCG immune response and vaccine efficacy”. Although it is a minor issue for the current article, this aspect is relevant for the future activities of the Social Technology Lab and should be integrated in its investigations. 