In this paper, van Tol and co-authors present a method to test the specificity of promoters to be expressed during meiosis with two different methods. Both are based on published transcriptomic data. Promoters supposed to be expressed in meiosis are used in two different experimental systems. One aims to address GFP at centromeres of meiotic cells/. The other is based on the expression of an Agrobacterium toxic protein VirD5 that should kill plant cells if expressed during plant development and renders plant sterile if it is only expressed during gametogenesis. In principle, both strategies are very interesting. However, experiments need more controls to obtain any conclusions. Is the rationale for developing the new method (or application) clearly explained? The authors could also mention that the need of meiotic specific promoters is a prerequisite to (i) study the function of genes that are essential to cell cycle genes (ii) to inactivate some genes by RNAi or other methods that are ubiquitously expressed but essential to meiosis (iii) to overexpress genes selectively during meiosis…. Is the description of the method technically sound? There is just one detail. The cloning is supposed to remove the FLAG based on Figure 2 because the Sal1 and Not 1 sites are on each side of the FLAG. Hovewer, on Figure 1 the FLAG is kept after the cloning of the promoters Are sufficient details provided to allow replication of the method development and its use by others? If any results are presented, are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? In general, cytological experiments suffer of a lack of appropriate controls. As mentioned by the other reviewer, RFP cannot be used as a control in Figure 4B. Where are the scale bars in all the figures ? It is known that GFP loses its fluorescence in meiotic columns after a few minutes. Details are needed to be sure that control cells and tested cells are visualized in the same conditions. The absence of fluorescence does not mean that the construct is not expressed. It could be expressed for a short period of time. It is very important to visualized meiotic stages by adding either DAPI or propidium iodide. Another method would be to fix the cells and make spreads to be sure of the meiotic stage. In Figure 4C, the absence of DNA staining makes impossible to determine the stage of meiosis. And the assumption of having 5 dots in a meiocytes is wrong. There are stages in which meiocytes have 10 dots, others where thy have 5 dots and they are not haploid (Armstrong et al, JCS, 2001 1 ). In Figure 4D, it is difficult to know which cells are shown. They are no meiotic spreads for sure. Moreover, with the pictures provided it is almost impossible to count the dots. Again in Figure 5, it is always very difficult to determine the stages of meiotic cells. For the VIr5 experiments, we fully agree with the first reviewer, the sterility should be quantified by counting seed sets. For the conclusions, when expression is not detected in any cell types, the absence of expression cannot be relied to the weakness of the promoters. The first control would be to be sure that the fragment containing the promoter is functional. For that, complementation would be the best way to be sure of the functionality of the promoter. One of the best example is DMC1 promoter which has been used several times to express different constructs (example in Yang et al, Plant Physiol, 2008 2 ). The lack of expression could mean that the authors have missed the stage of expression and the same explanation could be given for other promoters. As the meiotic stages are not mentioned in this study, it is hard to know if meiosis has been fully explored. Finally, as mentioned by the other reviewer, SMC1 is known to be expressed outside meiosis (Schubert et al., 2009 3 ). This ways that transcriptomic data on meiocytes should be used with precautions. 