This work uses the frequency of detected structural variant events as a proxy for reference quality and thus as a measure of trustworthiness for variant calls in a region. The foundation for the work is a consensus set of multiple SV methods applied in both Genome in a Bottle and 1000 genomes. The concept is interesting and well applied. The analysis is clearly communicated, and the code is both openly available and interpret-able. I do have a minor issue with the communication of the issue. The article doesn't get specific about why performing analysis in these genomic regions might be "dangerous", which I would categorize as: Regions which represent a problem in the reference itself (either regions of mis-assembly, or locations where a rare SV event was present in the sequence used which the rest of the population doesn't have) Regions which may contain "SV hotspots" Low complexity regions, centromeric regions, telomeric regions. Segmental duplications with insufficient divergence, mobile elements. Regions of high heterozygosity in the population - which may or may not be SV in origin but due to their diversity may manifest as SV events. Since the paper doesn't specifically break down these possibilities, I feel that the tone of the discussion would imply to a naive reader that these regions are "dangerous" because they are SV hotspots, when I think the authors would agree with me that reference assembly issues, low complexity regions, and segmental duplications are probably responsible for most of the "dangerous" regions. It might be worthwhile to spend a few sentences to explain why a region might be dangerous, though the paper is written so tightly around the problem that it might distract the paper from its core point. Separately, another distinction it might be worthwhile to make is that the SVs from the 1000 genomes project are quite different than the HG002 SVs. In one case, we have SVs generated over a population using more limited sequencing technology. HG002 is very different, where we are instead generating a wealth of calls from a single sample. Both approaches are worthwhile and it is appropriate to combine them. It would be interesting to note whether there are differences between the types of regions the two approaches identify. From this point, one could ask a number of additional questions beyond the scope of the manuscript. For example - which of these regions are no longer SV hotspots when using longer reads. Hopefully authors of SV tools will begin to take this DangerTrack into account when developing their methods - either to give quality values to their calls, or as a means to separate calling on hard and easy regions of the genome. Overall, the work is sound and the paper very well written. 