 Summary In this article, the authors argue for an extension of the concept of heritability. They make three main points which I reconstruct as follows. First, they argue that the notion of heritability used in behavioral genetic (heritability BG ), in spite of tracking causation, is problematic for a number of reasons. In fact, among other things, it does not permit to locate genes causally involved in the production of a phenotype preventing us from effectively being able to intervene on deleterious phenotypes. It also elicits the erroneous interpretation that phenotypes with a high heritability are immutable. Furthermore, this notion, the authors claim, does not correspond to the notion of heritability used in biology (heritability Bio ) which they define as the capacity for a trait to be genetically transmitted from one generation to the other. Second, the authors claim that heritability Bio is also problematic because it focuses solely on genetic transmission which is too restrictive. Finally, they propose to extend the concept of heritability within an evolutionary framework to account for non-genetic inheritance (heritability X ). Assessment Barring a few reservations, I am overall in agreement with the authors’ reasoning and arguments. However, I believe that a few distinctions should be drawn and incorporated in the revision of the manuscript or response, in order to help the authors position themselves in relation to the existing literature and prevent them from being misunderstood. The first important distinction I would like to draw is between theoretical heritability and a heritability estimate . In principle, obtaining the theoretical heritability of a trait is pretty straightforward. One just takes the ratio of genotypic variance to phenotypic variance. One problem, however, is that genotypic variance cannot be measured directly. Instead, one must use an algorithm (e.g., apply a parent-offspring regression, Falconer’s formula, or any of the methods based on genome-wide association studies (GWAS)) to obtain an estimate of it. It is helpful when criticizing the usefulness of “heritability”, to know whether a criticism is addressed to the method for estimating heritability or to the concept itself. If the former, there is scope for improvement; if the latter, the prospects are much bleaker: a perfect estimate of the theoretical value would be unhelpful. Of course, whether one can obtain an accurate estimate in a given context is an important question, but it should nevertheless be distinguished from a criticism of the theoretical underpinnings of heritability itself. Going back to the different claims made by the authors, when they mention that, following some of the classical models used in behavioral genetics, the heritability values obtained are prey to different confounding variables, this represents a criticism of the estimates (and the underlying methods to obtain them), not the concept. I take it that some of the authors’ criticisms are directed at some estimates (in particular those obtained from twin studies), while other criticisms are directed at the concept itself. It would be welcome to see this spelled out. Second, it would be useful to see the distinction between broad-sense and narrow-sense heritability clearly drawn in the context of the article. This is a classical distinction used in the literature (Downes, 2017 1 ). When one says that the causes for a phenotype are genetic, this can be understood in two different ways. They refer either to an ontogenic timescale or to a phylogenetic timescale. In the former case, the effects of genes and of their interactions are taken into account for the production of the phenotype—this corresponds to broad-sense heritability. In the latter case, only the additive component of genotypic variance is taken into account—this corresponds to narrow-sense heritability since particular gene-gene interactions (e.g., dominance, epistasis) are, in the long run, eliminated during sexual reproduction. Mirroring the two notions of heritability are two different scientific projects in the study of the interactions between genes and the environment for the production of a phenotype. One project aims at understanding these interactions during development (ontogenic timescale), while the second project aims at understanding them in the context of evolution (phylogenic timescale). Narrow-sense heritability is clearly relevant for the latter project, while the relevance of heritability (whether in the narrow or the broad sense) for the former project is much less obvious. It would be useful that the authors tell us whether, in their view, many of the criticisms they make apply to both narrow- and broad-sense heritability and to clarify which of the two research projects I outlined they are targeting. It looks to me as if the authors’ distinction between heritability BG and heritability Bio is, at least in part, captured by the narrow/broad-sense heritability distinction, though not fully since they claim that heritability Bio is a notion used vernacularly in biology (see Minor point 2 below). Third, I think it is important to note, as the authors do, that the traditional methods for estimating heritability have been devised while the support for genetic information was unknown. Why does it matter? Simply because what is meant by “genetic” (or more accurately genotypic) in the context of a twin-study or more generally in quantitative genetics, does not perfectly overlap with what is meant with the same word in molecular biology (Griffiths Stotz, 2013 2 ). The difference has important implications when one calls for the extension of an idea in which the words “gene” or “genetic” are used (see for instance Lu Bourrat, 2018 3 in the context of the extended evolutionary synthesis). A gene in quantitative genetics, or more generally in evolutionary theory, is a substrate-neutral entity of which one physical realizer is a molecular gene. “Genetic variance” in this context refers to anything physical that behaves like a molecular gene including some epigenetic factors. Thus, I believe that the extension the authors call for is, for part, already accounted for by the classical conceptual apparatus. Two things should be noted, however: Estimation methods of heritability relying on genomic data (e.g., Visscher, Yang, Goddard, 2010 4 ) refer to a very narrow notion of the gene, namely one in which a gene is a given DNA-sequence variant with at least one non-silent substitution. Other types of mutations, such as additions and deletions, as well as other DNA changes such as chromosomic changes are not accounted for by these methods (Bourrat, accepted 5 ) and they are one of the reasons a large discrepancy exists between traditional methods of estimation and those based on GWAS (Bourrat Lu, 2017 6 ; Danchin, 2013 7 ). All these “genetic” differences are relevant evolutionarily and should be included for obtaining an accurate estimate of heritability relevant for evolution. In this respect a call for extending heritability (estimates) to non-genetic factors (where “non-genetic” here is in reference to the molecular concept of the gene) is justified. Non-genetic factors (where “non-genetic” here is in reference to the evolutionary concept of the gene) can be transmitted over time. This calls for a substrate neutral concept of heritability, which can be defined abstractly as a relative population-level measure of parent-offspring resemblance. When defined as such, no particular mechanism of inheritance is considered. Although this notion of heritability is sometimes preferred by some (see for instance the exchange between Downes, 2009 8 and Okasha, 2010 9 ) because it is even more abstract than the gene-centered concept, it can lead to a number of epistemic difficulties, such as for instance assessing the causal structure underlying the inheritance of different factors from one generation to the other. For instance, as shown by Lynch and Bourrat (2017) 10 , when there exists a genotype-environment correlation, the causal origin of the correlation can be different. One implication of this difference is that in cases where the environment can be considered as part of the extended phenotype of a genotype, one should include any gene-environment correlation resulting from this causal relationship as part of the heritability estimate. On the contrary, when environment and genotype are causally independent, the correlation should not be included in the estimate. One danger of calling for an extension of the heritability concept to diverse types of physical substrates is to neglect that many of them might be extended phenotypes. Thus, calling for an extension of the concept of heritability to include non-genetic factors (including environmental ones) can be wrongheaded in some situations. To be clear, I am not defending here a nave version of genetic determinism, just hedging against a strong version of the causal parity thesis.[1] For these reasons, I found the Figure 1 slightly misleading as each factor is represented by a line which does not cross with any other. This tends to suggest that these factors are independent from one another. In reality, many of these factors interact (non-additively) with one another, and some will be causally involved in the determination of other transmitted factors. I think it would be useful to visually represent this on the figure or write it somewhere in the caption and/or text. Additionally, if heritability is invoked with the aim of separating the effects of individual properties from those of the environment in their contribution to parent-offspring phenotypic resemblance, it must be defined in reference to an environment even when the abstract substrate-neutral concept is used. This implies that the environment (or at least part of it) must be considered independently from the properties of the individuals forming a population. Calling for an extension of heritability to include the environment (or part of it), without being very clear what is meant by the word “environment” could lead to the view that any factors of the environment correlated with individual properties should be included in a heritability measure. This should be resisted. This last point is to be related to the problematic use of the notion recurrence by the authors when they refer to heritability. Recurrence does not necessarily imply transmission, while a trait being heritable implies that it has been transmitted. I am not saying that the authors have fallen prey to the different problems outlined above with respect to extending the concept of heritability. Rather, I am saying that while an extension of the notion of heritability is welcome, the authors might want to ponder upon this type of considerations to guard themselves against these potential difficulties. More minor points: I think I agree with Eric Turkheimer (Reviewer 1) that the authors might focus too narrowly on behavioral genetics. I also recommend using the term “heritability QG ” instead of “heritability BG ”. I was unconvinced by the claim on page 6 that bipedality is universally considered has heritable while its heritability BG is nil. Most evolutionary biologists would say that bipedality has a low heritability but would recognize that the heredity of this trait is high. I am thus wondering whether the authors’ intention is not contrast heredity with a population measure of it, namely heritability, the latter of which is a very imperfect measure of the former. Related to the previous point, I would argue that the word heritability is most often used in a technical sense while the words inheritance and heredity are used more casually. In their proposal of extending heritability to non-genetic factors, do the authors have in mind a technical or vernacular notion? Since they used “heritability”, and they want their extension to be framed evolutionarily, I took it they had in mind a technical notion. In fact, in evolutionary biology heritability overwhelmingly refers to the technical meaning of quantitative genetics. But if they don’t then they should be very clear about it since this could be an important way in which their article is misunderstood. I would cite Lewontin (1970) 11 when mentioning the three conditions for evolution by natural selection since this paper was very influential in making the recipe approach to natural selection a popular one in the last 50 years. I think the authors should recognize previous calls to extend the concept of heritability. One such call in evolutionary theory has been made by Danchin (2013) 7 . [1] Note furthermore that another reason it is not a defense of nave determinism is that this reasoning could be applied whether genes or any other inherited factors is transmitted from parent to offspring. 