The author is presenting a study comparing the outcome of PCNL in patients with single functioning kidneys to patients with both kidneys. Introduction: “The PCNL is used for management of stones sized 2 cm 3 and above.” Please consider rephrasing. In the EAU guidelines, PCNL is the gold standard for stones 2cm (maximal diameter). Stone volume is more appropriate for reporting but most of the literature considers the maximal diameter. Methods: What about institutional board approval for the conducting the study? Informed consent from the patients? “We recruited patients with and without nephrostomy tubes in this study.” Should added to the inclusion-exclusion criteria. Were the cases consecutive? “…patients with single functioning kidney with deteriorated health.” Please explain. It is not clear which imaging studies were considered for the evaluation of the patients. CT scans are more appropriate for accurate depiction of the stone size/location. Which was the approach for evaluating the patients with single functioning but with the presence of non-functional contralateral kidney? Please provide a more detailed description of the technique. Was it the same for all cases? It is not clear which was the position of the patient during the PCNL (percutaneous access). What was the size of the tract? What kind of lithotripter was used? What was the size of the nephrostomy? Which were the criteria for tubeless or non-tubeless technique? I do not really understand why to clamp the nephrostomy tube for the first 12 hours. The nephrostomy tube is placed to ensure drainage not to tamponade the tract. What was the follow-up schedule for these patients? Which imaging techniques were used for evaluating the stone-free status and when? Definition of stone-free status? Clavien-classification of the complications? Results: A lot of information is missing. Stone location and the presence of multiple stones are important. Multitract PCNL may have been necessary, Operative time? Hospitalization time? The current information is very limited for the reader to follow the results. Discussion: There are several articles on PCNL and solitary kidneys that could be considered for discussion. Based on the experience of the author, which are important parameters for safety and efficacy of PCNL in cases with solitary kidneys? Technical points to propose? Which are the string points of the study? What the study adds to the available literature? Limitations of the study? 