The authors have conducted the first systematic review to answer this research question. It is a valuable effort. Abstract EBSCOhost and Ovid are not databases. They are search interfaces or search engines for other databases. Please add the name of the databases that you search using these two tools. Please add the exact search date (dd/mm/yyyy). Please state the reason for not using Cochrane Risk of Bias tool for assessing risk of bias of RCTs. Please add rationale for using fixed effect model. The conclusion is so strong. With limited evidence, it is not easy to say that MMC has safety, efficacy, or long-term efficacy. Methods The search date is older than a year (17 months old). Please update the search. I spent a few minutes and identified following recent studies: - Azzawi (2018) 1 - Islam et al. (2019) 2 EBSCOhost and Ovid are not databases. They are search interfaces or search engines for other databases. Please add the name of the databases that you search using these two tools. The search strategy reported for PubMed needs serious attention by a search expert such as a librarian or information specialist and through using PRESS checklist for peer-reviewing search strategies. If authors have no access to such person they can post a task on taskexchange.cochrane.org and request a volunteer to help them in exchange to offering Acknowledgement or Authorship, depending on their contribution. When the number of results is little, usually the authors should seek other sources such as references of included studies, citations to relevant studies, contacting the authors of relevant studies, etc. Depending on amount of time and resources available for the team, I request them to use other methods to make sure no studies are missing. Please structure Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria to subheadings: Patients, Intervention, Control/Comparison, and Primary and Secondary Outcomes. I wondered why side effects of interventions have not been listed as collected outcome data. Please add separate headings for Screening, Data Extraction, Assessment of Risk of Bias, and explain their processes. Please follow the PRISMA reporting guideline items one by one. Please state the reason for not using Cochrane Risk of Bias tool for assessing risk of bias of RCTs while it is available within RevMan. Please share your RevMan file as Appendix in Open Science Framework so that the readers could reproduce your analysis. Please add rationale for using fixed effect model. Results Please follow the original PRISMA flow diagram in which duplication is before screening. I2 is not the only way to notice heterogeneity. Actually, I2 may not work well with small sample size and low number of studies. The other ways is to look at the heterogeneity in study details such as characteristics of population (age – compare Age in Moradi with age in Mazdak –, sex, etc.), interventions (method of administration or dosage), and outcomes (methods of measurement). Also N/As in the table are missing details that you may get contacting the authors and they may contribute to heterogeneity. Based on what I see in your description, the method of administration is different among studies plus age of the patients varies across studies. Discussion The first four paragraph of the discussion are not discussing the results and they seem to be relevant to Background. Impact of small sample size, heterogeneity of included studies, adverse effects, subjectivity of outcome measure, not using placebo for control group on interpreting these results are some of the items that could have been discussed here. I also refer the authors to a commentary written by Ng and Chan on Mazdak et al . as the first RCT 3 . I thank the authors for listing some of the limitations this reviews. I think a new version of this review should be submitted, before being approved. 