I found the article by Nelson and Congdon to be quite interesting in what they attempt to do, how they approach the problem, and in the results that they get. Essentially, aggregating FAO production figures for each country from 1975 to the mid-2000s, they run fixed effects regressions to determine the source of productivity growth in agriculture, accounting for weather. One of the most interesting innovations that they did was to separate analyses for temperate and tropical countries. They find that most growth in temperate countries is due to growth in agricultural technology, along with growth in inputs other than land, fertilizer, irrigation, and farm equipment (e.g., pesticides). However, they actually find that the growth rate from agricultural technology and inputs excluding the ones mentioned is negative. Critique of One of Their Main Findings The fact that there is a difference between temperate and tropical countries is quite interesting and entirely believable, but the fact that for tropical countries the growth from technology and other inputs is negative seems implausible. While publishing such a result would not be improper, it would seem important for the authors to suggest a stronger explanation as to why it might be feasible. Even from within the data, they could do more to understand the result. For example, if they differentiated between Asia, Africa, and Latin America, could they find whether some have negative growth rates while others have positive growth rates? I have a difficult time thinking of a scenario where this could be true for Asia with the Green Revolution, but could understand where this might be true for Africa, especially with the transition post-independence and the decline of many agriculture-supporting institutions. Furthermore, they could try to differentiate by time. Is there a different trend before and after the mid-1980’s? They could either do this by dividing the dataset into two groups, or could use a quadratic term for the time variable. Answering the region and time questions could shed much light on the source of the negative technological growth rates in the tropics. Statistical Analysis Issues I endeavored to reproduce their results in Stata, but was unsuccessful. I tried both reg (with and without country dummies) and xtreg, with and without weights and using different variance matrix specifications. They did not say in their article whether they use weights in their regressions, but it would seem that weighting by harvested area (or some similar variable) would allow for better conclusions to be drawn for the aggregations used in their article. It seemed improper to use total harvested area as an explanatory variable and then interpret the variable as the authors do. That is, large values of harvested area can be thought of as having two components: either high percentage of national land in agriculture; a large country; or both. The authors, however, treat that variable as if it were cropland expansion, which it is not. They should possibly use the proportional change in harvested area from previous year, or possibly the proportion of cropland in total land for the country. In their regressions, the authors include daytime and nighttime temperatures, along with their squares. Unfortunately, the signs they get in their regressions are implausible considering where the inflection points are. For example, they find that yields rise rapidly in the tropics above 8 degrees C during the daytime. While they will rise above 8 degrees C, their regressions suggest that yield continue to rise even above 40 degrees C. The problem is that daytime and nighttime temperatures are very highly correlated, and that it is very difficult to estimate them both in the same regression. Regressions will clearly signal joint significance, but rarely will there be individual significance, and the signs on the parameters are often implausible. The authors should probably elect to focus on just daytime temperatures, so that they can contribute to evaluating the impact of climate change on agricultural productivity. One additional issue related to data: I was unable to find in their article what the source of their climate data was, and it would be important to include that. The same is true for the soil score. Interpretation Issues The authors endeavor to explain why countries changed their proportions of crops grown, without actually looking at the data to see if they did change. They know the global, temperate, and tropical aggregates changed, but these could have come about without a single country changing proportions, but rather by countries changing their harvested areas. That is, if the countries with the largest harvested areas in 1975 were different than the countries with large harvest areas in the mid-2000’s, and if the large countries in 1975 had vastly different distributions than those in the mid-2000's, then the aggregate ratios would change without a single country changing their proportions. I'm not suggesting that the authors are wrong about the proportions changing within countries, but it would be helpful to give an example (perhaps India or China), or some kind of table that shows how grains or some other crop group has changed through time, by country. It is important to point out that the regressions are not entirely proper the way the authors did them. All of the input variables are endogenous, and they did not attempt to use instrumental variables to control for the endogeneity, so the parameters are biased. This may be acceptable for analyzing historical data for the sake of determining the influence of various variables on yields – much like a hedonic regression – but it is not proper for making policy recommendations for the future. So when the authors make conclusions from estimates based on the endogenous variables (e.g., they suggested that the tropics should reduce grain production and increase fruit and sugarcane production to maximize global calories and yields), one wonders whether they have gone too far in drawing implications from an improperly specified model. The proportions of each crop group in historical data were chosen by individual agents maximizing their utility, taking into consideration market prices along with knowledge of the climate and soils. Implementing policy to change these proportions in order to maximize yields and calories is likely to backfire. Recommendation The article clearly makes an important contribution to understanding sources of yield growth globally. There are some relatively minor issues addressed in the preceding sections which can be dealt with, making the article much better for publication. 