 Summary: The goal of this paper by Chu and Sanger is to examine the hypothesis that learning mechanisms that adapt to altered environments (like visuomotor rotation) is different from learning mechanisms that are required for improvement of motor skills. Using both experiments and model simulations, the authors make the argument that there are indeed two learning mechanisms -- a learning mechanism for each task (which accounts for the specificity of learning of different skills) but a single learning mechanism for learning the environment (which accounts for generalization within a single environment). The topic addressed in the paper is of great interest to readers in the motor control community. Overall the paper is well-written and the experiments/modeling are well done. Major concerns: The paper does not seem to make reference to a very similar idea of and learning ( Huang et al., 2011 , Haith Krakauer, 2013 ). Those papers make almost the exact same distinction where model-based learning accounts for tasks like adaptation, whereas model-free mechanisms account for skill learning tasks. It would be useful for the authors to look at this distinction and discuss these ideas in relation to the current paper. Huang et al. (2011) also used a similar paradigm to Experiment 3 to show that practicing in an visuomotor rotation could lead to savings (faster re-learning) if the hand-direction was the same (due to model-free learning). Therefore, the authors may want to use caution before making statements such as adaptation to an altered environment is not useful for training task performance. While the statistics are used in a kind of way with the z-statistic, I have a couple of concerns: The sample standard deviation is estimated from only 10 trials - therefore the use of a t-distribution may be more appropriate than a z-distribution. The sign of the after-effect is masked by this analysis i.e. both undershoots and overshoots would count as being significant since only the absolute value is being taken into account. It would therefore be useful to do a typical "between-subjects" analysis (like a paired t-test) which would also help the reader know the actual magnitudes of the after-effects across the 4 experiments (and not merely whether they were significant or not). Minor: I do not understand how the two stripes are representing . Does one stripe represent West in visual space, and the other in hand space? If so, how did the participants distinguish the two stripes? Also it seems that in Figure 3B, the middle panel has the directions marked incorrectly. Figure 2 is a little hard to digest and has repetition of the same blocks across multiple panels it would help the readers if the authors could omit the equations (or use them just once if they are repeated) so that readers could clearly grasp the critical differences between the 3 models. The rationale behind Experiment 4 is a little unclear to me. What do the authors mean when they say we had to change the visual display(do they mean target position?). There also seems to some discrepancy between Figure 3D and the table in Figure 3 (e.g. figure 3D should show Baseline "A2" and Readaptation A2, not A1). Also the titles for each experiment condition in Figures 3A-D are all labeled the same "Baselne A1 Interference B1 and Re-Adaptation A1". The lesser strength of effects in the 90 experiments could be explained by different strategies used in small versus large visuomotor rotations ( Abeele Bock, 2001 ). The ideas in the paper would also be helped by reference to older ideas of task and practice specificity of motor skills (Henry, 1959) which suggest poor generalization of motor skills. It would help to line up the experimental data in Figure 5 alongside the model predictions in Figure 4 so that it is easier to identify the best predicting model. Why is there a difference in the learning rate between the 3 models during adaptation to the first task (Figure 4, Experiment 1 trials 1-20)? Is it a fair comparison among the 3 models if the final performance of all models is not equivalent after this first block? Since Experiment 3 is the real important finding that confirms the authors model of motor learning, it would help to show in a Figure the fact that participants actually increase the error in the first few trials (currently it is not possible to see this clearly because all 60 trials are all compressed into the figure). 