The study aims to summarize the evidence regarding the role of telomere length as a prognostic biomarker in colorectal cancer. It is a systematic, non-quantitative review of the literature, that concludes that there is inconsistent evidence regarding the utility of this biomarker for predicting survival. The paper provides very helpful summary tables, describing pertinent clinical information about the patients included in individual studies, along with the methods used to measure telomere length or ratio. Below are some comments that we think could strengthen this manuscript and the discussion regarding these biomarkers. General comments At least three biomarkers are reviewed: 1) tumor telomere absolute length , 2) tumor vs non-tumor telomere length ratio and 3) peripheral leukocyte absolute telomere length . Age-adjustment and additional variables (e.g. telomere 3’-overhang) are also included in some of the studies reviewed. Although correlations between these metrics may exist 1 , we think each one should be discussed and evaluated separately, unless evidence to justify their grouping is presented. The review concludes that “multicenter prospective studies with large numbers of participants are warranted”. Such studies may be warranted if these biomarkers showed consistent or aggregated independent prognostic value; had been suggested to improve current clinical prognostication methods (e.g. the Immunoscore) or have therapeutic relevance (e.g. MSI); and could be prospectively measured and interpreted (e.g. values can be prospectively classified as good or poor prognosis). The data presented does not seem to suggest that any of the three main telomere-related biomarkers meet these criteria. It would also be helpful to briefly discuss why a quantitative meta-analysis of the different telomere-related biomarkers was not performed. It seems like the heterogeneity of the studies would not lend itself well to such an analysis, and could lead to inaccurate conclusions; this is worthwhile mentioning. Introduction The introduction could benefit from discussion of telomere length across the spectrum of colon premalignancy to metastatic disease 2 , 3 . It would also be helpful to briefly summarize the data regarding the association between telomere length and other prognostic and molecular features of colorectal cancer (e.g. stage, MSI status, sidedness, KRAS/BRAF ), as well as how these associations may impact the independent prognostic value of telomere length. For example, shorter telomere length has been associated with early-stage tumors, right-sided tumors and microsatellite unstable (MSI-H) tumors in some studies 2 , 3 . Minor comment: references 1 and 2 do not seem to be supporting the sentences preceding them. 1 is referring to improved outcomes in CRC but the reference is about telomeres and 2 is regarding outcomes in stage IV disease but the reference is about genetic alterations. Methods Minor comment: if the authors update their publication, they could consider including another paper that has since been published 2 . Results The study by Suraweera et al . is the largest study in the review, and seemingly the most comprehensive and rigorous. It would be helpful to discuss this study more in detail, including its use of age-adjusted variables. It is worth noting that Lopez-Doriga et al. did not directly measure telomere length. Rather, their length and ratio estimates are based on whole-exome sequencing data in MSS tumors. They found an association with somatic mutation rate and with gene expression of several immune-related pathways that is also worth noting 4 . Minor comment: the PRISMA flow diagram 5 or a slightly more detailed description of the study inclusion/exclusion process would be helpful to include. It would be unusual to have 1,348 unique studies with no overlap between PubMed and Embase, for example. Minor comment: there is a typo mentioning anti-TGFR instead of anti-EGFR. Discussion Focusing the discussion on the current literature review, its limitations and the reliability of the results may be more informative than an extensive discussion of previous meta-analyses (these could be briefly summarized). The authors note that Wang et al. included very different (tumor and blood-based) studies in their meta-analysis. As mentioned above, unless the authors provide evidence to the contrary, these should likely not be grouped together and thus the conclusions in the paper by Wang et al. seem to not be applicable. The following sentences in the discussion do not seem to reflect this major limitation of the meta-analysis of Wang et al : “As a result, there was no significant association between telomere length and survival for CRC patients.” and “Wang et al . performed meta-analysis with eight studies only to fail to prove any association between telomere length and survival outcome”. It would be helpful to discuss the associations between telomere length and clinical/molecular characteristics found in several studies, and how these can potentially confound the study of telomeres as prognostic biomarkers. Given the importance of the immune response to colorectal cancer in predicting survival 6 - 8 , it may be worthwhile to summarize any data regarding the relationship between telomere length and the immune response to colorectal cancer. If possible, it would be helpful to suggest which of the telomere-related biomarkers is the best candidate for further studies (based on CRC studies or studies in other cancers). If none of the markers is preferable, we would mention that as one of the challenges in validating the role of telomere-related biomarkers. The conclusion regarding patients with metastatic disease (in the discussion and abstract) is based on a subgroup analysis of 28 patients in the study by Balc’h et al. and another study where all patients were treated with anti-EGFR therapy. We would be hesitant to draw such a strong conclusion based on these data. Minor comment: The sentence “This study reviewed the data of 1,955 CRC patients from 12 publications” may be misinterpreted as having performed a patient-level analysis as opposed to aggregated data analysis. 