This paper is a systematic review of the comparative cost of dialysis modalities. In some ways it is a self-fulfilling prophecy- led by Baxter, clearly with a strong proprietary interest in seeing expansion of peritoneal dialysis. Having said that, however, the authors do a reasonable job of articulating the limitations of the current analysis. There are a number of issues, however, that need to be addressed for the conclusions to be supportable: The authors need to more clearly distinguish between and . Although this is complex and may be difficult with the papers that were available for analysis, this is key if the purpose is to inform policy makers or clinicians in various countries about the relative value provided by ICHD vs. PD. For example, despite being less costly than ICHD, PD may not be viable in a country where the actual payment is less than the actual cost of delivering the modality. It is not clear how the comparison of total costs is accounted for vs. the costs of the modality per se . It would be much more useful to provide information on the distribution of costs by category and how these differ by modality and country. At the end of the day it is the total costs of care that matter- one might envision a country where there is little payment for in-patient care. Any differences in hospitalization rates might not be reflected in the data presented but may be important in determining which modality is most cost effective. In addition to the comment above, the authors very glibly state that clinical outcomes for ICHD and PD are the same. This may not be the same in all countries, however. For example, if peritonitis rates are high and hospitalizations are frequent for infection or catheter malfunctions the total costs of PD may be significantly higher than ICHD. The paragraph in the Introduction about the changing reimbursement systems is too simplistic and rapidly becoming outdated. The authors need to contextualize this work by clearly discussing the need to examine total costs of care and the overall value of competing modalities (quality/cost). The tables would be easier to interpret if the currency were normalized. I understand the complexity of this, but just showing the comparison between ICHD and PD within a country and not among countries seems to be a missed opportunity. 