 General comment This study sets out to evaluate the performance of Swaziland’s Rural Health Motivator Programme. As most resource-poor countries with human resources shortages in their health sectors are employing CHWs as a strategy to respond to the health needs of communities, evaluations of this strategy are highly relevant for health policy makers. Gathering data from households and CHWs has the potential to generate a much better understanding of how these programmes work or don’t work. This study is impressive in the large amount of data gathered from different stakeholder perspectives. It is a well-written paper, but with some critical omissions as set out below. Introduction A brief discussion on published evaluations of CHW programmes (e.g. well established programmes such as the Health Extension Workers programme in Ethiopia and the Lady Health Workers in Pakistan) would help to situate this research in the field of study and enable the authors to better articulate the study’s contribution to the field in their discussion and conclusions part of the paper. Some description of RHMs and how they differ from CHWs would be helpful. Methods A rationale needs to be provided for the study design. Why were household surveys and RHM surveys conducted? Was it the authors intention to cross reference the results? What was the specific purpose of the qualitative interviews? What is the rationale for the sample size 25? No information is provided on how the interviews map to the CHW Performance Logic Model. It is not clear if the interviews were conducted after the analysis of the quantitative data and whether they were used to explore issues arising from questionnaire results in more depth or to address some other aspect of the Logic Model. The rationale for the study design and the specific purpose of each of the methods needs to be included. Authors need to include some explanation of the CHW Performance Logic Model and why it was considered most relevant for this study. Performance is the key outcome variable in this study, yet the authors have not defined what this term means in the context of this study. The authors state that if no household members was available at first visit, they did not revisit. They ought to give some consideration to the potential bias this may have introduced into the study. For instance, it may be that those who were employed and out at work were less likely to be available than those who were unemployed. No information is provided about the time the visits took place, so it is difficult to know if this bias could have occurred. Some further expansion of the methods and/or consideration of this issue in the limitations of the study is needed. Results A strength of the study is the use of three sources of data and the opportunity this presents to triangulate data. The relatively large sample sizes should allow for a robust interrogation of the data. It is therefore disappointing that the analysis is rather superficial and confined mainly to descriptive stats. There are some obvious questions that remain unanswered because the relevant data have not been triangulated. For example, the RHMs reporting of rate of household visits could have been triangulated the household members response to Questions 2.8-2.14 to give a much better understanding of the productivity of the RHMs. Also there are many questions in the household member study that explore the performance of RHMs the results of which are not presented at all in this paper. If these results have been presented elsewhere, it would be helpful to refer to the publication. The statement “30.5% of RHMs reported to have done work other than for the RHM program during the previous 12 months” requires further explanation. Does this mean these RHMs worked elsewhere before joining the program or that they concurrently take on other work while conducting their RHM duties? 57.8% of sample disagree that they are paid a fair amount for the work they do, yet there are several non-monetary payments. Is it possible that these compensate. It is mentioned that half of respondents were satisfied or very satisfied with their job and then “Roughly a quarter (26.2%) of RHMs reported to occasionally or often think about leaving their job”. Was this issue explored in the qualitative interviews? Why is such a high proportion thinking about leaving their jobs? I also have concerns about the treatment of the qualitative data. It is not clear if quotes provided are indicative of a majority view or not. Whilst it would not be appropriate to attempt to quantify qualitative data, some sense of how widely held the opinions represented in the quotes are in the sample of interviewees would be appropriate. The following quote is provided as illustrative of physical distance being a barrier to RHMs visiting the households, but the quote is illustrative of the ease of visiting due to short distance and is therefore not appropriate to illustrate the point above ““I find it to be very easy since the households I am responsible for are nearby and I do not need to walk a long distance”” Discussion There are several problems with the discussion section of this paper. In the first paragraph of the discussion on social desirability bias needs to be re-written. The authors suggest that social desirability bias may have impacted the answers to two specific questions, but the results (i.e. low satisfaction with RHM and low rates of productivity reported by RHNs) suggest the opposite is more likely. This needs further discussion and explanation. There seems to be an element of selectivity about what results are discussed. For example, taking two results presented in the results section: “The majority of RHMs expressed dissatisfaction with the compensation offered. 57.8% either disagreed (38.0%) or strongly disagreed (19.8%) with the statement that “Given the amount of work I do as a rural health motivator, I am being paid a fair amount”. and “65.3% indicated that they would like to receive more supervision. Qualitatively, in cases where RHMs expressed interest in additional supervision, the reason tended to be that they felt additional feedback would help motivate them further and support continued learning”. The first of these results is discussed and a recommendation put forward to increase the monetary reward of RHMs. The second result represents a greater majority and is clearly linked to improved motivation, yet it is not mentioned in the discussion and additional supervision is not put forward as a recommendation. There are many apparent contradictions in the data that are not discussed e.g. low satisfaction levels with RHM services, but very high percentage of households would recommend the RHM programme to other communities The discussion section contains statements for which no evidence is provided in the results section e.g. “The low pay is likely also an obstacle for shifting HIV care tasks to RHMs, as many of these tasks, such as ART home-delivery, require reliable and constant care.” “Qualitative interview manuscripts are not shared publicly because they cannot be effectively de-identified given the relatively small number of staff involved in the studied community health worker programs.” This is not a convincing explanation as 25 interviewees from a sample of 306 would suggest that their anonymity could be protected. If the data cannot be provided, then the extracted text coded to the main reported themes should be made available. In the limitations, the authors provide a comprehensive account of the weaknesses of the CHW Performance Logic Model. This begs the question as to why they decided to use such a flawed model as the framework for the evaluation, given that this information on the Model was available to them. Conclusions. Again some selectivity evident as in the discussion, but some important points are also made regarding the deficiencies in the RHM programme. 