Summary: It was previously shown that Wingless (Wg)/Wnt signaling is required for the proliferation and differentiation of intestinal stem cells (ISCs) during development and tissue homeostasis. In this study, the authors examine the expression pattern of Wg ligand and the activation of Wg signaling in the posterior midgut of adult Drosophila . Consistent with previous studies, they find that Wg is expressed in the pylorus, but also sporadically in the diploid cells in the midgut epithelium. For unknown reason, they do not observe Wg expression in the visceral muscles (VMs), which is different from previous reports (Lin et al., 2008; Takashima et al., 2008; Tian et al., 2016). Their observation complicates the expression pattern of Wg in adult posterior midgut. They should carefully examine Wg expression in the visceral muscles. Nevertheless, their examination of Wg expression and signaling activation in adult posterior midgut will contribute to the overall effort of understanding the function of Wnt signaling in stem cell biology and tissue homeostasis control. Comments: The panels in Figure 1 are randomly arranged. The panels should be uniformly arranged with the pylorus to the right side. Same rule should be applied for other Figure. Higher magnification of Fig. 1B is required to better compare Wg expression with Fig.1A. It is very difficult to compare between the Wg antibody staining and wgGFP results. The authors examine flies expressing a membrane-tethered form of Wg (NRT-Wg) using anti-Wg antibody staining, and claim that “Anti-Wg again showed high Wg signals at the pylorus, with no obvious signaling gradient (Fig. 1E)”. They do not detect the signaling activation of Wg in this experiment, thereby it should be more proper to state “with no obvious Wg protein gradient”. Furthermore, the immunofluorescent intensity of Wg staining in Fig.1E is weaker than that in Fig.1A, could the authors explain the difference? Did the authors use the wgKO-Gal4 line to drive the expression of UAS-GFP to compare whether the results they obtain is same as that of wg-Gal4 UAS-GFP ? Results obtained from wgKO-Gal4 line should be more convincing as this KO line faithfully recapitulates endogenous Wg expression. The authors do not find Wg expression in the VMs even though they use the same lines as previous studies. LacZ signal can be easily detected the VMs when wg-lacZ lines are examined. Can the authors explain why they fail to observe Wg expression in the VMs? Carefully examination of the lines they used, including wgKO-Gal4 (by UAS-GFP ), is required. The authors claim that “However, we still detected faint Wg antibody staining in midgut areas anterior to the lowest point of the Wg gradient, and we also observed low activity of wg transcriptional reporters (Figure 1)”. However, where in the posterior midgut is the so-called low activity of wg transcriptional reporters the authors are referred to in Figure 1? Flp-out system is used to detect Wg expressing cells. However, the experiment is not carried out in a strict manner. When the flies are put into the 18℃ incubator? Immediately after cross setup or at some stage after cross setup? The authors should specify it, as leaky lacZ expression is observed in flies raised in 18℃ for 13-20 days. It maybe due to the strong activity of wgKO-Gal4 , or just handling problem. If it is due to the strong activity of wgKO-Gal4 , the authors should observe the lacZ expression in the VMs. Moreover, it is critical to examine control flies from 18℃ at the time points of 2 days and 8 days in order to compare side-by-side to those of flies in 29℃. To further confirm that the identity of lacZ+ cells at 2 days in 29℃, it is better to perform Dl and Pros staining. In Figure 4, it is not clear to observe a gradient of Wg signaling activation using Dfz2-GFP and sgg-GFP. Lower magnification panels should be included to show whether a gradient exists, like Figure 5. Green signal (likely GFP) can be observed in the left side of the lower dashed box in Fig. 5A. What are those cells? Midgut epithelium or VMs or other tissue? Is it true signal? Interestingly, this signal is not observed in Fig. 5C'. In Figure 7, why do some cell shows strong Arm staining, but no GFP signal? In Page 7, the authors state that “Global arm overexpression suggests that cells in the midgut tissue respond to Wg signalling asynchronously. Also, this forced global Arm induction appeared to perturb regular Arm distribution in the midgut....”. This statement is inaccurate, as the authors use flp-out system to induce clones expressing uas-ArmFL in adult flies, which could only randomly result in a subset, not all, of cells expressing uas-ArmFL . Same phenomena as in Figure 7 are seen in Fig 8B, why some GFP negative cells show very high Arm signal? Closer examinations or explanations are needed. If the authors indeed can not observe the expression of Wg in the VMs after further trials as suggested, they should explain the discrepancy in the discussion part. References 1. Lin G, Xu N, Xi R: Paracrine Wingless signalling controls self-renewal of Drosophila intestinal stem cells. Nature . 2008; 455 (7216): 1119-23 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Tian A, Benchabane H, Wang Z, Ahmed Y: Regulation of Stem Cell Proliferation and Cell Fate Specification by Wingless/Wnt Signaling Gradients Enriched at Adult Intestinal Compartment Boundaries. PLoS Genet . 2016; 12 (2): e1005822 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Takashima S, Mkrtchyan M, Younossi-Hartenstein A, Merriam JR, et al.: The behaviour of Drosophila adult hindgut stem cells is controlled by Wnt and Hh signalling. Nature . 2008; 454 (7204): 651-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Li Z. Reviewer Report For: Autocrine and paracrine Wingless signalling in the Drosophila midgut by both continuous gradient and asynchronous bursts of wingless expression [version 1; peer review: 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :317 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8787.r15309 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-317/v1#referee-response-15309 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Nystul T and Kim R. Reviewer Report For: Autocrine and paracrine Wingless signalling in the Drosophila midgut by both continuous gradient and asynchronous bursts of wingless expression [version 1; peer review: 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :317 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8787.r12861 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-317/v1#referee-response-12861 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 31 Mar 2016 Todd Nystul , Department of Anatomy, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, 94143, USA Rebecca Kim , School of Dentistry, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8787.r12861 Summary: In this study, the authors investigate the expression of Wg and the activation of Wg signaling in the Drosophila intestine. They find that wingless is expressed in the pylorus, consistent with previous studies, and also sporadically by diploid cells throughout ... Continue reading READ ALL 