 General comments: The data note describes how COMBINE is used to make available a mathematical model for simulation of syncytial mitotic cycles in Drosophila. Although well written, the aim of the article is somewhat unclear to me. The way the introduction is written and the archive is named suggest that the purpose of making the archive is to serve as a showcase for how to use COMBINE archives. However, the way the rest of the article is written focuses very much on how this specific archive was made and how it is organized. If the goal is to showcase COMBINE archives, I feel the manuscript lacks a description of not only how the specific archive was made but also why this would be a good way to make such archives in general. If, on the other hand, the aim is to make the specific model available, it lacks some more background on the specific model and possibly suggestions or examples of how it can be used. Major comments: I am confused about what is to be considered the primary repository / access point. The article refers to both a GitHub repository, an omex file on figshare, and a link to a php script on their own server where one can retrieve the latest version of the omex file. This leads to a number of questions: Am I right that GitHub is the primary place where development is done and improvements will made? Is the omex file provided by the php script always up-to-date with the GitHub repository, or may the newest version on GitHub be even newer than the latest version made available as an omex file? Will the omex file on figshare be updated, or will there only be a v1 there? Considering that figshare has both versioning and API for submission, I think the best solution would be to abandon the php script. This would eliminate redundancy, as the omex file would only be on figshare. Since figshare has both versioned and version-less DOIs for datafiles, this would allow the authors to provide a stable DOI that always points to the latest version of the omex file and at the same time allow users to always cite the specific versioned DOI of the omex file they used in their work. Given that figshare has a submission API, it should be possible to make sure that the omex file is automatically updated based on the GitHub repository whenever needed. Technical issues: Accessing the URL "bqfbergmann.dyndns.org/SED-ML_Web_Tools/Home/SimulateUrl?url=http://scripts.sems.uni-rostock.de/getshowcase.php" by copy and paste works correctly. However, clicking the link within the article instead opens "http://bqfbergmann.dyndns.org/SED-ML_Web_Tools/Home/Simulate" and leads to an error page instead of the promised results. The link "www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/download?mid=BIOMD0000000144" is similarly broken. When clicked, it instead tries to open "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2421/www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels-main/download?mid=BIOMD0000000144", which leads to an error. The URL "www.fim.uni-passau.de/index.php?id=17297L=1" leads me to an error page irrespective of whether I copy it or click it. Minor corrections: The authors several times use the abbreviation "cmp." to refer to other parts/figures in the article. I have never encountered this abbreviation before and was unable to find any other articles that use it. Given the context, I suspect "cf." may be what is meant.