The paper under review studies the association between the frequency of STI screening in MSM and changes in geometric mean MICs for certain antibiotics in N. gonorrhoeae samples in select US cities. An important potential source of bias in such analysis could be reverse causality, namely places with higher prevalence of drug resistance for gonorrhea, as well as syphilis in MSM may initiate more STI screening efforts. Below are some questions/suggestions to the author. 1. Please define geometric mean MIC. Also, since one refers to geometric mean, it might be more reasonable to examine fold changes (increase or decreases) in geometric mean MIC (or logarithm of thereof) in the correlation analysis. 2. Nine cities reported STI screening information in 2005 (Figure 1), and 12 cities reported STI screening information in 2013. The reviewer would suggest to correlate the frequency of STI screening in 2013 with Geometric mean MICs in 2013 (Fold) change in geometric mean MICs between 2009 and 2013 (Fold) change in geometric mean MICs between 2005 and 2013 For the 2005 screening frequencies, it would be interesting to correlate them with geometric mean MICs (in 2013, and possibly 2005), and not only changes in thereof. 3. In ref. 3, no association was found between rates of antibiotic prescribing and geometric mean MICs. Perhaps the results of the paper under review are affected by reverse causality, namely places with higher prevalence of drug resistance for gonorrhea, as well as syphilis in MSM may initiate more STI screening efforts. For example, the California sites had both high geometric mean MIC for ciprofloxacin in 2005 (ref. 3), and high frequency of screening (see also 1 ). Currently, this possibility is not mentioned in the Discussion. The reviewer was also wondering if there is a correlation between the fold change in screening frequency and the fold change in geometric mean MICs between 2005 and 2013. 4. Are other variables in NHBS-MSM surveys (possibly rate of change of sexual partners, or a number of recent sexual partners) correlated with geometric mean MICs/changes in thereof? 5. In the Discussion, it is mentioned that “the sample size was small (9 or 12)”. Currently, only 9 cities are used in the correlation analysis, as far as the reviewer could see. 