A number of changes have been made to the article, but a number of issues remain, as follows (in no particular order): Even after revision, virus classification remains incorrect in many parts of the article. There is no subfamily Pneumovirinae (used at least twice) and HMPV is not a member of the family Paramyxoviridae . It is stated multiple times that VSV is a prototype for the nsNS group of viruses. This only needs to be stated once. Also, the abbreviations VSV and HRSV are introduced multiple times. The first sentence in the paragraph beginning "Viral mRNA cap methylation process..." is not grammatically correct. In the section "HRSV MTase as an antiviral target" the statement that the MTase catalytic motif and SAM binding domain seems to be conserved between RSV subtypes, pneumoviruses and nsNS viruses is redundant: if it is conserved in nsNS viruses, then it will be conserved in RSV subtypes and pneumoviruses. In the same section, in the discussion regarding the "double whammy" effect of MTase inhibition, there should be a more accurate explanation of what happens when a non-methylated RNA is recognized as non-self. In the same section, lack of a methylated cap would be expected to result in poor translation, rather than having an impact on transcription. In the same paragraph, last sentence, it is not clear why VSV would be used as a prototype for studies to develop antivirals. It would be much more logical to perform experiments with HRSV or HMPV polymerase. A number of statements lack citations, e.g. "The processes of capping and methylation are distinct in different viruses" and "requirement of cis-elements in viral RNA for cap methylation", or the citations are incorrect or do not cite the most relevant paper e.g. "The interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFIT) are a part....." Overall, the impression given is that the article has been hurriedly composed, without attention to existing literature and current taxonomy and without careful proofreading. As the authors note, this is a really interesting and timely topic. I think that this could be a very useful article, but it needs further editing. 