In this article, the authors present a host subtraction database for human cell line sequencing. The purpose of this approach is subtract non-viral reads vom RNA-seq samples of virus-infected cells to improve efficiency of subsequent analyses. Their substraction database is targeted specifically towards three commonly used human cell lines: HepG2, HuH-7 and Jurkat. In brief, their approach was as follows: For creation of the host subtraction database (SDB): - Perform DNA sequencing for the cell lines considered - Align reads to the human reference genome - Assemble unaligned reads into contigs The SBD was then created as a concatenation of FASTA sequences of the assembled contigs, the human reference genome, the UniVec Database (nucleic acid sequences which may be of vector origin), the PhiX genome (used as control in Illumina sequencing) and a collection of Mycoplasma genomes The subtraction process was then performed by aligning reads with bowtie2 against the SDB and then removing all read pairs if at least one read in the pair could be mapped with a local alignment to the SDB. Evaluation of their approach was performed using RNA-seq data of the three cell lines either infected or not infected with Sendai Virus (SeV) as well as Huh-7 cells infected with Ebola or Marburg virus or not infected. They show that after host subtraction, virus reads make up the largest portion of the remaining reads. They also show that the combined runtime of first running bowtie2 and then BLAST on the remaining reads, e.g. to identify the virus, is only around 20% of the time that would be required if BLAST were run on all reads. While the article is well written and the method is well described, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed: 1) The advantage of adding contigs assembled from DNA sequencing to the SDB is relatively small. Only between 0.19% and 1.34% of reads were subtracted in the SeV test case. However, the effort for obtaining these contigs is substantial as it requires DNA sequencing and contig assembly. Thus, the SDB cannot be easily extended to other cell lines without additional experiments. To show that this additional effort is warranted, the authors should at least show the following: That removing reads mapping to the contigs before post SDB mapping has a substantial influence on the results by either resulting in reduced numbers of false positive mappings to the Sendai genome or substantially reducing runtime of the total pipeline (including SDB mapping and potentially BLAST analysis). That a similar effect cannot be obtained by augmenting the human genome by publicly available human sequence data not part of the reference genome, e.g. transcript sequences from Ensembl or RefSeq or alternatively publicly available RNA-seq data for the considered cell lines. In particular, the latter might even outperform DNA sequencing for the cell lines as assembly of reads not mapping to the human genome would result in novel transcript sequences to which RNA-seq reads map better with the (unspliced) read aligner used in this approach. Furthermore, it would allow easily extending the SDB approach to other cell lines for which RNA-seq data already is/becomes available. 2) There should be some justification for the use of an unspliced read aligner, i.e. bowtie2, for mapping RNA-seq reads against the SDB, rather than a dedicated RNA-seq mapping program that also allows identifying spliced read alignments, such as STAR or HISAT2. In particular, the latter is both fast and requires relatively little memory. While removing reads for which bowtie2 identifies a local alignment likely identifies all sequences originating from the SDB sequences, there is a potential that too many reads may be removed, e.g. in case of local similarities between SDB sequences and the virus in consideration. A safer approach would be to only exclude reads that can be aligned completely or almost completely (including gaps due to splicing). Regarding this point, the authors should show that: there is a substantial speedup of using local alignment with bowtie2 compared to fast RNA-seq alignment with HISAT2 or STAR that results do not differ much between the two approaches, i.e. the bowtie2 approach does neither miss many mappings a dedicated RNA-seq mapper would find nor reports many mappings not found using an RNA-seq mapper. If the latter is the case, they should show that these additional mappings missed by an RNA-seq mapper are valid mappings to the human cell lines and influence subsequent results. Finally, DNA and RNA sequencing data for the considered cell lines should be submitted to a public database to ensure full reproducibility of their approach. 