Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have recently been found to work against the Ebola virus (amodiaquine, chloroquine, clomiphene and toremifene), and define a pharma- cophore, which has been used to search databases, and identify further compounds for in vitro and in vivo testing. The in silico methodology described here provides an excellent method to quickly screen known compounds for possible therapies against Ebola in particular, and other viruses in general. Some minor comments. The result that SERMs show lower scores for binding to VP35 is rationalized by the finding that clomiphene and toremifene inhibit EBOV VLP entry with some specificity to GP 1 , and therefore does not probably inhibit VP35. Chloroquine to date has not progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model used in these studies. This statement is not clear, does it mean that the others have progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model? The first few compounds in Supplemental Table 2 should be part of the main manuscript as a table. Color coding of pharmacophore features should be in Fig 1 too (it comes earlier than Table 1, where it is described). The structures look better with a white background. A 3 RMSD for redocking a given ligand is quite high 2 . The authors should consider the use of other docking methods, as a comparison. A table of Libdock scores would help easily analyze results (with a mention of whether a higher score is better, and the significance of a score). The major concern with the manuscript is the use of proprietary software, and data formats, in the study, which makes it difficult for users to probe the resultant docked structures. Further, non-standard formats are subject to the existence of the company which uses it, and not a given in the future. References 1. Johansen LM, Brannan JM, Delos SE, Shoemaker CJ, et al.: FDA-approved selective estrogen receptor modulators inhibit Ebola virus infection. Sci Transl Med. 2013; 5 (190): 190ra79 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 2. Sándor M, Kiss R, Keseru GM: Virtual fragment docking by Glide: a validation study on 190 protein-fragment complexes. J Chem Inf Model. 2010; 50 (6): 1165-1172 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Chakraborty S. Reviewer Report For: A common feature pharmacophore for FDA-approved drugs inhibiting the Ebola virus [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :277 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6137.r6708 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-277/v1#referee-response-6708 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 12 Dec 2014 Sean Ekins , Collaborations in Chemistry, Fuquay-Varina, USA 12 Dec 2014 Author Response Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have ... Continue reading Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have recently been found to work against the Ebola virus (amodiaquine, chloroquine, clomiphene and toremifene), and define a pharma- cophore, which has been used to search databases, and identify further compounds for in vitro and in vivo testing. The in silico methodology described here provides an excellent method to quickly screen known compounds for possible therapies against Ebola in particular, and other viruses in general. Response: Thank you for your constructive comments. Some minor comments. The result that SERMs show lower scores for binding to VP35 is rationalized by the finding that ‘clomiphene and toremifene inhibit EBOV VLP entry with some specificity to GP’ 1 , and therefore does not probably inhibit VP35. Response: While the lower docking scores are noted I do not think this necessarily excludes them from inhibiting, as we know docking scores may not be that accurate and in this case, docking was used to answer the question could they fit. It’s pretty clear that a wide variety of drugs could fit based on the binding site size and accessibility. ‘Chloroquine to date has not progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model used in these studies.’ This statement is not clear, does it mean that the others have progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model? Response: From discussions with the author on the paper that described Chloroquine as active versus EBOV in vitro and in mouse, this work has not gone beyond the mouse model of EBOV. The first few compounds in Supplemental Table 2 should be part of the main manuscript as a table. Response: Because this data is available easily on the website, I do not see any benefits of taking these compounds out of this supplemental table and putting them into the body of the manuscript. It might also add more confusion cutting the table up. Color coding of pharmacophore features should be in Fig 1 too (it comes earlier than Table 1, where it is described). Response: Thank you – this has now been added. The structures look better with a white background. Response: I think this is a personal preference, the structures are clear in our opinion with a black background. I have not had this suggestion previously with other publications regarding the background color. A 3 RMSD for redocking a given ligand is quite high 2 . The authors should consider the use of other docking methods, as a comparison. Response : The study was not intended as an exhaustive docking comparison, there are plenty of these in the literature as noted by the reviewer. I agreed the redocking RMSD was high, but I also provided some justification for the result (difficulty of predicting orientations for compounds binding in what is a relatively hydrophobic and shallow pocket). If others want to use different methods and perform a comparison for this target I would be supportive. A table of Libdock scores would help easily analyze results (with a mention of whether a higher score is better, and the significance of a score). Response: The Libdock scores for the best poses are in the ‘4IBI Libdock docking data best poses” file. A higher score is better and this has been added to the results section The major concern with the manuscript is the use of proprietary software, and data formats, in the study, which makes it difficult for users to probe the resultant docked structures. Further, non-standard formats are subject to the existence of the company which uses it, and not a given in the future. Response: All of the models were generated with the proprietary software Discovery studio, and all files have been provided. The comment about such software is true, while I support using open software, I have yet to find an open source pharmacophore tool as good as that in Discovery Studio to date. It is also more convenient to use this software generating pharmacophores, receptor-ligand pharmacophores and docking in the same place. The types of analysis I have described could be repeated with any software, open source or proprietary. My hope is that by making this work openly accessible others will be inspired to pursue computational approaches with EBOV. Perhaps the community could propose the use of standards for open pharmacophore files as well. By publishing in this journal we are making all our data open even though they are in proprietary formats, I do not think this should preclude publication. Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have recently been found to work against the Ebola virus (amodiaquine, chloroquine, clomiphene and toremifene), and define a pharma- cophore, which has been used to search databases, and identify further compounds for in vitro and in vivo testing. The in silico methodology described here provides an excellent method to quickly screen known compounds for possible therapies against Ebola in particular, and other viruses in general. Response: Thank you for your constructive comments. Some minor comments. The result that SERMs show lower scores for binding to VP35 is rationalized by the finding that ‘clomiphene and toremifene inhibit EBOV VLP entry with some specificity to GP’ 1 , and therefore does not probably inhibit VP35. Response: While the lower docking scores are noted I do not think this necessarily excludes them from inhibiting, as we know docking scores may not be that accurate and in this case, docking was used to answer the question could they fit. It’s pretty clear that a wide variety of drugs could fit based on the binding site size and accessibility. ‘Chloroquine to date has not progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model used in these studies.’ This statement is not clear, does it mean that the others have progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model? Response: From discussions with the author on the paper that described Chloroquine as active versus EBOV in vitro and in mouse, this work has not gone beyond the mouse model of EBOV. The first few compounds in Supplemental Table 2 should be part of the main manuscript as a table. Response: Because this data is available easily on the website, I do not see any benefits of taking these compounds out of this supplemental table and putting them into the body of the manuscript. It might also add more confusion cutting the table up. Color coding of pharmacophore features should be in Fig 1 too (it comes earlier than Table 1, where it is described). Response: Thank you – this has now been added. The structures look better with a white background. Response: I think this is a personal preference, the structures are clear in our opinion with a black background. I have not had this suggestion previously with other publications regarding the background color. A 3 RMSD for redocking a given ligand is quite high 2 . The authors should consider the use of other docking methods, as a comparison. Response : The study was not intended as an exhaustive docking comparison, there are plenty of these in the literature as noted by the reviewer. I agreed the redocking RMSD was high, but I also provided some justification for the result (difficulty of predicting orientations for compounds binding in what is a relatively hydrophobic and shallow pocket). If others want to use different methods and perform a comparison for this target I would be supportive. A table of Libdock scores would help easily analyze results (with a mention of whether a higher score is better, and the significance of a score). Response: The Libdock scores for the best poses are in the ‘4IBI Libdock docking data best poses” file. A higher score is better and this has been added to the results section The major concern with the manuscript is the use of proprietary software, and data formats, in the study, which makes it difficult for users to probe the resultant docked structures. Further, non-standard formats are subject to the existence of the company which uses it, and not a given in the future. Response: All of the models were generated with the proprietary software Discovery studio, and all files have been provided. The comment about such software is true, while I support using open software, I have yet to find an open source pharmacophore tool as good as that in Discovery Studio to date. It is also more convenient to use this software generating pharmacophores, receptor-ligand pharmacophores and docking in the same place. The types of analysis I have described could be repeated with any software, open source or proprietary. My hope is that by making this work openly accessible others will be inspired to pursue computational approaches with EBOV. Perhaps the community could propose the use of standards for open pharmacophore files as well. By publishing in this journal we are making all our data open even though they are in proprietary formats, I do not think this should preclude publication. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 12 Dec 2014 Sean Ekins , Collaborations in Chemistry, Fuquay-Varina, USA 12 Dec 2014 Author Response Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have ... Continue reading Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have recently been found to work against the Ebola virus (amodiaquine, chloroquine, clomiphene and toremifene), and define a pharma- cophore, which has been used to search databases, and identify further compounds for in vitro and in vivo testing. The in silico methodology described here provides an excellent method to quickly screen known compounds for possible therapies against Ebola in particular, and other viruses in general. Response: Thank you for your constructive comments. Some minor comments. The result that SERMs show lower scores for binding to VP35 is rationalized by the finding that ‘clomiphene and toremifene inhibit EBOV VLP entry with some specificity to GP’ 1 , and therefore does not probably inhibit VP35. Response: While the lower docking scores are noted I do not think this necessarily excludes them from inhibiting, as we know docking scores may not be that accurate and in this case, docking was used to answer the question could they fit. It’s pretty clear that a wide variety of drugs could fit based on the binding site size and accessibility. ‘Chloroquine to date has not progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model used in these studies.’ This statement is not clear, does it mean that the others have progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model? Response: From discussions with the author on the paper that described Chloroquine as active versus EBOV in vitro and in mouse, this work has not gone beyond the mouse model of EBOV. The first few compounds in Supplemental Table 2 should be part of the main manuscript as a table. Response: Because this data is available easily on the website, I do not see any benefits of taking these compounds out of this supplemental table and putting them into the body of the manuscript. It might also add more confusion cutting the table up. Color coding of pharmacophore features should be in Fig 1 too (it comes earlier than Table 1, where it is described). Response: Thank you – this has now been added. The structures look better with a white background. Response: I think this is a personal preference, the structures are clear in our opinion with a black background. I have not had this suggestion previously with other publications regarding the background color. A 3 RMSD for redocking a given ligand is quite high 2 . The authors should consider the use of other docking methods, as a comparison. Response : The study was not intended as an exhaustive docking comparison, there are plenty of these in the literature as noted by the reviewer. I agreed the redocking RMSD was high, but I also provided some justification for the result (difficulty of predicting orientations for compounds binding in what is a relatively hydrophobic and shallow pocket). If others want to use different methods and perform a comparison for this target I would be supportive. A table of Libdock scores would help easily analyze results (with a mention of whether a higher score is better, and the significance of a score). Response: The Libdock scores for the best poses are in the ‘4IBI Libdock docking data best poses” file. A higher score is better and this has been added to the results section The major concern with the manuscript is the use of proprietary software, and data formats, in the study, which makes it difficult for users to probe the resultant docked structures. Further, non-standard formats are subject to the existence of the company which uses it, and not a given in the future. Response: All of the models were generated with the proprietary software Discovery studio, and all files have been provided. The comment about such software is true, while I support using open software, I have yet to find an open source pharmacophore tool as good as that in Discovery Studio to date. It is also more convenient to use this software generating pharmacophores, receptor-ligand pharmacophores and docking in the same place. The types of analysis I have described could be repeated with any software, open source or proprietary. My hope is that by making this work openly accessible others will be inspired to pursue computational approaches with EBOV. Perhaps the community could propose the use of standards for open pharmacophore files as well. By publishing in this journal we are making all our data open even though they are in proprietary formats, I do not think this should preclude publication. Ekins et al. have presented a crisp and lucid manuscript on a very relevant topic. They have suggested a methodology to extract common features from four approved compounds that have recently been found to work against the Ebola virus (amodiaquine, chloroquine, clomiphene and toremifene), and define a pharma- cophore, which has been used to search databases, and identify further compounds for in vitro and in vivo testing. The in silico methodology described here provides an excellent method to quickly screen known compounds for possible therapies against Ebola in particular, and other viruses in general. Response: Thank you for your constructive comments. Some minor comments. The result that SERMs show lower scores for binding to VP35 is rationalized by the finding that ‘clomiphene and toremifene inhibit EBOV VLP entry with some specificity to GP’ 1 , and therefore does not probably inhibit VP35. Response: While the lower docking scores are noted I do not think this necessarily excludes them from inhibiting, as we know docking scores may not be that accurate and in this case, docking was used to answer the question could they fit. It’s pretty clear that a wide variety of drugs could fit based on the binding site size and accessibility. ‘Chloroquine to date has not progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model used in these studies.’ This statement is not clear, does it mean that the others have progressed beyond the mouse EBOV model? Response: From discussions with the author on the paper that described Chloroquine as active versus EBOV in vitro and in mouse, this work has not gone beyond the mouse model of EBOV. The first few compounds in Supplemental Table 2 should be part of the main manuscript as a table. Response: Because this data is available easily on the website, I do not see any benefits of taking these compounds out of this supplemental table and putting them into the body of the manuscript. It might also add more confusion cutting the table up. Color coding of pharmacophore features should be in Fig 1 too (it comes earlier than Table 1, where it is described). Response: Thank you – this has now been added. The structures look better with a white background. Response: I think this is a personal preference, the structures are clear in our opinion with a black background. I have not had this suggestion previously with other publications regarding the background color. A 3 RMSD for redocking a given ligand is quite high 2 . The authors should consider the use of other docking methods, as a comparison. Response : The study was not intended as an exhaustive docking comparison, there are plenty of these in the literature as noted by the reviewer. I agreed the redocking RMSD was high, but I also provided some justification for the result (difficulty of predicting orientations for compounds binding in what is a relatively hydrophobic and shallow pocket). If others want to use different methods and perform a comparison for this target I would be supportive. A table of Libdock scores would help easily analyze results (with a mention of whether a higher score is better, and the significance of a score). Response: The Libdock scores for the best poses are in the ‘4IBI Libdock docking data best poses” file. A higher score is better and this has been added to the results section The major concern with the manuscript is the use of proprietary software, and data formats, in the study, which makes it difficult for users to probe the resultant docked structures. Further, non-standard formats are subject to the existence of the company which uses it, and not a given in the future. Response: All of the models were generated with the proprietary software Discovery studio, and all files have been provided. The comment about such software is true, while I support using open software, I have yet to find an open source pharmacophore tool as good as that in Discovery Studio to date. It is also more convenient to use this software generating pharmacophores, receptor-ligand pharmacophores and docking in the same place. The types of analysis I have described could be repeated with any software, open source or proprietary. My hope is that by making this work openly accessible others will be inspired to pursue computational approaches with EBOV. Perhaps the community could propose the use of standards for open pharmacophore files as well. By publishing in this journal we are making all our data open even though they are in proprietary formats, I do not think this should preclude publication. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Fuentes G. Reviewer Report For: A common feature pharmacophore for FDA-approved drugs inhibiting the Ebola virus [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :277 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6137.r6707 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-277/v1#referee-response-6707 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 01 Dec 2014 Gloria Fuentes , Center for Life Sciences Technologies, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6137.r6707 The current Ebola crisis in West Africa has shattered all expectations by continuing to grow months following the initial case. This has stimulated a massive and global emergency response, and it has challenged the health protocols and by extension, the ... Continue reading READ ALL 