Thank you for giving us the opportunity to read this article in which the authors describe the characteristics, citations and metrics of journals that have been indexed in the Scopus database, at some point, and have afterwards been “discontinued” within Scopus for different reasons, summarised as “publication concerns”. Since the articles that have been published before the journal’s indexation was discontinued remain in the database, and can still be found, they may still be cited. The authors find this to be particularly problematic since they believe that these journals may be what are often called “predatory journals”, and therefore may threaten the credibility of science, by polluting the database with “weak research”. Therefore, the authors aimed to compare the number of citations per year, and per journal, and per document, before and after the journal was delisted. They conclude that the number of citations was actually higher after the journal was discontinued from Scopus. Although we understand the problem these authors try to highlight, we have some major concerns regarding some aspects of this study (mainly related to baseline assumptions and lack of clear definition) and also some minor ones. Major concerns: Baseline assumption: In this article, the authors suggest that if a journal is being indexed, even for a long period of time (half of them have been indexed for 8 to 54 years), and is encountering “publication concern”, then all the previously published articles should become suspicious of bad science. We are not sure this should be considered straight forward, for the reason developed under our second major concern. “Predatory journals”: the problem of the lack of a clear definition of what a predatory journal is, remains. The authors use different sources to try to identify journals as “predatory” and we can only realise that the sources do not seem to agree. Although authors auto cite their own “consensus definition” of predatory journals and publishers “(..) entities that prioritize self-interest at the expense of scholarship and are characterized by false or misleading information, deviation from best editorial and publication practices, a lack of transparency, and/or the use of aggressive and indiscriminate solicitation practices.” they fail to underline that not everybody agrees with this definition. Also, the recent COVID-19 debacle of very low-quality scientific publications, published in usually highly regarded journals, suggests that bad peer-review and misleading articles may not be a characteristic of any journal. Also, it remains unclear to us how a journal may be indexed for 8 to 10 years, and all of a sudden become “predatory”. Or was it predatory in the first place, but was only uncovered after such a long time? If this is what the authors suggest, then what should we think about “recently” indexed journals? They may all be predatory as well, and will only be uncovered in 5 to 10 years? “Publication concerns”: This term needs to be better defined in order to really understand what lies behind it. It remains unclear why these journals have been excluded from the Scopus database at some point. Interestingly, half of these journals have been deemed good enough to figure in the database for more than 8 years… that’s a lot! And all of a sudden, they are not judged acceptable anymore and are discontinued from Scopus. Ok, why not. It may take some time before someone alerts Scopus of the misbehaviour of a given journal, although more than 10 years for 25% of them seems a lot. Or could it be a problem behind the vague concept of “publication concerns”? Could it be that the publication has stopped? Or the journal has changed its name? Or has merged with another one? Or has changed in quality over time? Illustrating some of the reason for discontinuation would help the reader understand the context. According to Scopus’ document cited in the article (ref. 5), there are 3 causes prompting Scopus to launch a journal re-evaluation: Under performance – metrics ; Outlier performance – radar ; Publication concerns. It might have been interesting to analyse the journals removed using the criteria “outlier performance – radar” as well as, according to Scopus document (ref. 5 cited by the authors) it is “particularly effective in flagging potential predatory journals.” Scopus describes it as ”an algorithm that flags journals based on approximately 40 outlier predictors, including sudden change in output volume, sudden change in publishing country and/or affiliations, and high journal/author self-citation rates.” Increase in citations: The authors are worried that the citations of these journal have increased after the journal’s indexation was discontinued in the Scopus database. The problem here is that they do not seems to consider the fact that this may be the case for all journals (those indexed and those discontinued) which is probably due to the rapid increase in the number of publications over time. Unfortunately, this study lacks a “control group” (journals whose coverage has NOT been discontinued in the Scopus database) which could have help the reader understand whether the increase in citation of these journals was similar, was higher, or was lower than that of “legitimate journals”. Underlying discourse : The term "inflated" used in the title, in Figure 2 and conclusion suggests manipulation or distortion of citations and an artificial advantage for authors of articles published in predatory journals before they are removed from Scopus. This is not demonstrated by the reasoning and data used in the article as a basis for comparison is missing. Methods and reproducibility: While the authors have provided data alongside the article, we have not been able to reproduce some of their results, such as “citations per year” presented in table 5. Data presented in “underlying data table 1” would benefit from better variable descriptions, such as where exactly was the information collected from, and the date of its collection. Some variable names and analysis are misleading, such as “Actual Pubmed”, described in methods section as “inclusion in PubMed” and in table 6 as “main database indexing”. It does not reflect whether the journal is currently indexed in PubMed, but may in some cases only indicate that a single article is present in PubMed or selected citations, due to their deposit in PMC (eg. “Advanced Materials Letters“). Some data seem a bit bizarre… and information provided by the authors like “Citation before and after the date of discontinuation were manually counted based on either the Scopus journal overview or the downloadable tables made available by Scopus upon request (see source data)” (p.3) did not allow us to double check some numbers that were weirdly extreme, and potential typos. Some counts of the number of citations seem erroneous, leading to an aberrant number of citations per document for journals like "Mental Health in Family Medicine" (80 citations per document before discontinuation) or "Pharmacognosy Reviews" (170 after). Other example of bizarre data: according to “underlying data table 1” the journal “Advanced material research” has been indexed for 10 years (from 2004 to 2014) and has received during this period only 3 citations. However, after having been delisted from the Scopus database, during a 6 year period (2014 to 2019), it has received 13875 citations. Any thoughts on how/why this could have happened? Minor concerns: Abstract : Background: “contains the largest number of abstract and articles…” - "One of the largest" could be better, some databases are bigger than Scopus (Google Scholar and Dimensions, see https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2018.03.006 1 or https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.14329) Background: The term “publication concerns” may not be clear to everyone. Background: “These journals remain indexed and can be cited.” This sentence is confusing. The articles published before the exclusion remains indexed and their citations continue to be taken into account but new issues of the journals are not indexed any more. Methods: The use of the term “discontinued” both for DOAJ (Results) and for journal publication (Background) is confusing. Should we say “excluded” or “delisted”? Results: “317 journals were evaluated” but next sentence states ninety-three percent of the journals (294/318)” - typo for 318? Results: “the mean number of citations per year after discontinuation was significantly higher than before, and so was the number of citation per document”. Unclear whether the median difference of 64 is per journal, or cumulative across all “discontinued” journals? What are “documents”? Do you mean “articles”? or are there any other types of publication? Conclusions: it’s unclear how the conclusion regarding “predatory journals” is drawn. Also, we don’t think the career advancement are “artificial”, they are real! Although maybe “undue”? Introduction : “publications from no longer indexed journals may not be removed retrospectively … hence articles … could remain part of the database 7 ” p.3 - this conditional statement seems to contradict abstract which categorically states “These journals remains indexed” as well as the author’s conclusion “we propose that CSAB could apply these measure case-by-case”. Reference 7, linked with statement, was not helpful to clarify. Methods : “Independently collected by eight of the authors in pairs”: not very clear: two by two, or checked by two different people independently? “the year of our data collection”: more precision maybe? Results : Why were data from 31 journals not retrieved? What was the problem? Table 1: Interestingly, none of these journals (discontinued from Scopus for publication concerns) have been published by Elsevier. Could there possibly be a selection bias? An interesting option could be to check if Elsevier’s journals that are still in Scopus might have been discontinued from others sources (DOAJ, WOS), and on which grounds? Table 1: Maybe the table could be enhanced to provide information about whether other journals by that publisher are still included in Scopus or not? Eg. 39 journals discontinued from Scopus were published by Academic journal Inc. Are there any other journals by this publisher still in Scopus? Table 3: don’t need 2 decimal precision in %. Table 3: Subject area are repetitive in Scopus, and a journal can have more than one, while this table and underlying data mention only 1 per journal, presumably the first appearing in Scopus ? If so, probably worth indicating and better to remove the percentages in table 3 falsely suggesting mutually exclusive categories? Table 5 and results (text): unclear where the median difference of 64 comes from? Or the 0.4? Table 5: total number of citation does not match number of citation before and after discontinuation. Any thoughts on how/why this could have happened? A note of explanation about that would be useful. Citations by year in table 5: The number of years before and after the journal is removed from Scopus is very different, the average is more than 9 years before and 4 years after (median of 8 and 4 respectively) which makes the comparison in Table 5 not relevant. Indeed, the number of citations per year is higher during the 2 or 3 years following the publication of the article and decreases sharply with time (DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0153730 2 ) so that the ratio of citations per year also decreases if a larger number of years is used. Distribution of articles: of the 317 journals analysed, 5 contain more than half of the articles concerned by this question. This very inhomogeneous distribution means that the statistical analyses and the percentages per journal do not take this kind of distribution into account. Page 5, first paragraph: table 2 should probably read table 5? Page 5, 2 nd paragraph: In 243 case (243/317)… is useless here. Maybe the authors meant 76.6% (243/217) Table 6: maybe a good idea to separate the “positive” facts (being indexed in Pubmed, WoS or Cabell’s whitelist) from the negative ones (Beall’s list, Cabell’s blacklist DOAJ discontinued.) Discussion : p.7 Unclear why the term “ghost journal” suddenly appear and how it is defined. p. 7-8 “Of greatest concern is our finding that many of the discontinued journals display predatory behaviors in claiming to be open access” - do you mean “displaying… are claiming”? to our understanding the article does not say that open access systematically means predatory. According to ref 9 et 22, the large majority of DOAJ indexed journals were not found in Beall’s list or Cabell’s Blacklist. p. 8: “Such journals” unclear: predatory journals or OA journals? The authors highlight that a limitation of their methodology is that they have included the year of discontinuation in the period “after discontinuation”, which could have led to overestimations. Then why not present the 2 analyses with the year of discontinuation included in the period BEFORE and in the period AFTER discontinuation, so that the reader can check for him-herself what bias this has induced? A mention of or comparison with other databases’ practices with regards to removing journals for indexing could be interesting. Do their approaches differ from Scopus’? Conclusions : Proposals are missing to solve the problem addressed and to avoid the stigmatization of the authors of the "suspect" articles. For example, a new open peer-review for articles published within X months before the journal's exclusion would be a possibility. Maybe another idea would be to flag published articles that have been published in journals that are not indexed anymore “NB: this article was been published in YEAR, in a journal that has encountered publication concerns in YEAR” References : Reference 5 URL should be https://www.elsevier.com/__data/assets/pdf_file/0004/891058/ACAD_LIB_SC_ART_Importance-of-high-quality-content_WEB.pdf Link in reference 12 does not work properly due to a superfluous space in the middle. Reference style is not harmonized (cf. 1 st of methods section makes 4 references to the same underlying data table 1 (ref number 12 in the reference list, 2 of whom are not correct and should refer to source data, the rest having various citation style). There might be some mix up in references: ex. 4 on page 3 lists ref 6-8. Is it possible it should read 5, 7-8 instead? The literature review would benefit from additional references to complete or contrast with the author’s findings: ex. doi:10.3390/publications8020017 3 that concludes that “articles published in predatory journals have little scientific impact.” Auto-citations: There are different ways to increase a researchers’ number of citations or H-index. Publishing in a “predatory journal” may be one of them, but auto-citation is also one. Of the 30 references cited at the end of this paper, 11 (37%) are auto-citations (citation of a reference including at least on author of the present paper), 7 (23%) are articles from others, and the remaining 12 were websites. Typo/language In Underlying data table 1: last column title - DOAJ instead of DOAH ? p.3 3 “journal are no longer be indexed” - “journal are no longer indexed” p.3 5 “still they can get” - “they can still get” References 1. Thelwall M: Dimensions: A competitor to Scopus and the Web of Science?. Journal of Informetrics . 2018; 12 (2): 430-435 Publisher Full Text 2. Heneberg P: From Excessive Journal Self-Cites to Citation Stacking: Analysis of Journal Self-Citation Kinetics in Search for Journals, Which Boost Their Scientometric Indicators. PLoS One . 2016; 11 (4): e0153730 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Björk B, Kanto-Karvonen S, Harviainen J: How Frequently Are Articles in Predatory Open Access Journals Cited. Publications . 2020; 8 (2). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Iriarte P, Muller F and Elia N. Reviewer Report For: Inflated citations and metrics of journals discontinued from Scopus for publication concerns: the GhoS(t)copus Project [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2020, 9 :415 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.26314.r64881 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-415/v1#referee-response-64881 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Mouton J. Reviewer Report For: Inflated citations and metrics of journals discontinued from Scopus for publication concerns: the GhoS(t)copus Project [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2020, 9 :415 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.26314.r63789 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/9-415/v1#referee-response-63789 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 16 Jun 2020 Johann Mouton , Centre for Research on Evaluation, Science and Technology (CREST), DST/NRF Centre of Excellence in Scientometrics and Science, Technology and Innovation Policy, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.26314.r63789 This is a very relevant study in the growing scholarship around predatory publishing. It is one of the first studies that look at how predatory or at least questionable journals that have been delisted from citation database continue to have ... Continue reading READ ALL 