Review of Draft Genomes: Draft genome assembly and transcriptome sequencing of the golden algae Hydrurus foetidus (Chrysophyceae): This data note represents a significant contribution to the algal genomics research community in couple different ways. This project represents the first publicly available draft genome of a chrysophyte (golden algae) to date, making it a critical contribution to the study of this particular clade of algae and will be a much-utilized resource for other chrysophyte genome analyses as they emerge. Because this is the first representative of Chrysophyceae to be sequenced is will be a de facto resource, which leads to the next important contribution of the note – which is the importance of the modern sequencing technologies used in development of this genome and transcriptome assembly. The tools used are likely to be the gold-standard tools of de novo genome and transcriptome sequencing and assembly. The use of Pacific Biosciences “Isoseq” long read, full length transcriptome sequencing approach will allow this team to generate high quality gene annotations, a great advantage for a new reference such as this genome. Additionally, the use of long read technologies (either Nanopore or PacBio) will be used to generate higher quality genome assemblies with fewer, longer contigs and scaffolds. While broad strokes are painted about the contribution of this draft genome to phylogenetic (or phylogenomic) analysis and the importance of the algae as primary producers it is unclear what additional analyses this team will be doing to utilize this genome assembly. Next steps may be to perform biosynthetic pathway analyses and phylogenetic analysis of the Chysophte class or higher level algal/protist analysis. It would be beneficial if the authors could point to some specific follow-ups. I was unable to locate the genome assembly using accession number ERZ780628as listed in Table 1. Though, I was able to find the assembly under NCBI accession number: GCA_900617105.1 