The authors describe one 15-second and one 30-second episode of transient asystole after spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery in a woman with a baseline heart rate of 62 and an intravenous preload of 1 liter of crystalloid over an undefined period of time. In their manuscript, they note correctly that bradycardia is a common dysrhythmia with spinal anesthesia and that asystole and sudden death are relatively rare. Much of the article centers on the purported physiologic mechanisms involved, yet there are no data in this case to support any specific argument. In their manuscript title, the authors imply that their patient's persistent consciousness throughout two transient episodes of asystole is unusual or unique, but most clinicians would view this as normal in a young, healthy individual; in their manuscript, they describe treatment with IV atropine, IV epinephrine, and shouting at the patient, but this omits airway evaluation, oxygenation, ventilation and ventricular pacing that are BLS and ACLS measures to treat asystole in the non-obstetric patient. The authors mention the Bezold-Jarisch reflex only once in the manuscript as a possible contributing influence; and their clinical responses ignored this physiology. Many authors agree that even two liters of IV crystalloid may be insufficient to prevent hypotension with spinal anesthesia, so the authors should have anticipated both hypotension and hypovolemia-induced changes in cardiac physiology. Resuscitation should have included rapid IV fluid administration and raising the patient’s legs to increase venous return to the heart without increasing the cephalad spread of the spinal anesthetic. As in any resuscitation, communication with the patient (“Annie, Annie, are you OK?”), providing 100% oxygen by face mask, assisting with ventilation if necessary, and frequently checking the blood pressure (the ABC’s) should have been performed. There is no role for shouting or frightening the patient who has severe bradycardia or transient asystole. In fact, sudden frightening has been known to induce a transient myocardial stunning and LV dysfunction in young, healthy individuals. By not explicitly doing maneuvers to increase venous return to the heart, the anesthesiologists delayed the patient’s recovery and her response to IV atropine and epinephrine. Most obstetric anesthesiologists know to prevent these types of episodes by administering IV fluids in amounts of 2 liters or more prior to spinal anesthesia, as well as administering pressor agents (ephedrine or phenylephrine) at the earliest sign of hypotension or bradycardia. Continuous calm communication, especially to distressed obstetric patients is an art all obstetric anesthesiologists should master. Consciousness in unmedicated, young, healthy patients without any peripheral vascular disease has no clearly defined relationship to heart rate alone, so that awareness can only be assessed by direct communication.