This interesting contribution by Bajorath et al . extends previous database analysis work in order to identify and annotate promiscuous compounds. The authors extract activity information from public databases like ChEMBL and then trace back this information to the original primary scientific literature. It has been often documented that multiple compounds interact not only with single targets, but sometimes with many desirable and / or undesirable targets (off-targets). Further analysis of these polypharmacology findings is of great utility in understanding drug profiles and striving for the design of molecular with better overall profiles. Additional test campaigns after identification of bioactive compounds often reveal additional target-ligand interactions, both on undesirable ADMET targets (hERG, CYP, transporters) and selectivity off-targets (GPCRs, neighbouring proteins). However, these campaigns are expensive and will only systematically be conducted for molecules with interesting biological data and overall profile. Therefore for most compounds in the primary literature, only a single assay data point is reported to discuss the SAR of a particular series. It is very unlikely that this situation will significantly change in the near future. The report title and abstract cover the content well. The chemoinformatics approach is well conducted, clearly described and can most likely be reproduced by others. The results are presented in a clear and interesting way and capture the interest of F1000Research readers. The large dataset for this analysis was made publically available. The authors might also want to mention, whether software tools and subroutines from their study are available. Therefore this contribution is an essential view on available data for polypharmacology studies and should be indexed in its present form. I suggest that chemical structures displayed in figures 4 and 6 should be annotated with their trivial naves or drug names, if available. Furthermore groupings of the targets for compounds in both figures by target families might be instructive to see, whether compounds like staurosporine or flavones have only been tested for kinases or in a much broader manner. Furthermore implications of these results should be clearly discussed in the paper. This could also prompt for additional suggestions and guidelines on conducting in-silico polypharmacology studies on these sparse data-matrices.