 Thank you for the opportunity to re-review this manuscript following the authors changes, additions, and clarifications. As before, this is a well written discussion of a challenging airway management scenario. The manuscript is greatly improved with the authors careful edits. I do however, have several reservations with the manuscript primarily related to unsupported statements and low quality references. Technical issues: I appreciate the authors clarification regarding the previous technical concerns. Thank you for drawing my attention to the ability to bag mask ventilate expressed as mask ventilation using pressure-support ventilation of 15cm H 2 O - to clarify, does the manuscript mean manual airway support, the application of a face mask, and the ventilator turned on? The degree of difficulty in ability to bag mask ventilate changes the entire clinical context of this patients airway management. I suggest this is expressed according to the Han grade for clarification ( Hans et al ., 2004). I suggest the inclusion of a statement regarding the fact that the true difficulty of intubation (according to the standard of direct laryngoscopy) remains unknown. The authors have explained the reasons for progressing directly to videolaryngoscopy, but being at high risk of difficulty is distinct from true difficulty. In response to the authors reply previous reply, the ASA guidelines do not actually recommend the use of videolaryngoscopy in a predicted difficult intubation - they suggest the consideration of it. This is an important, but admittedly subtle, distinction. I agree the guidelines do not specifically recommend or suggest (see previous) a check DL view before progression to videolaryngoscopy, but it does not make it a bad idea (especially in a stable patient receiving adequate bag mask ventilation). Content issues: Please consider removal of the statement Channelled video laryngoscopes are more suitable in patients with a limited mouth opening compare to traditional videolarygoscopes like the GlideScope. This may or may not be true, but it isnt supported by the current reference, which describes a manikin study. e.g. to be correct would need to rephrase Channelled video laryngoscopes have been shown to be advantageous when performing intubations in manikins with limited mouth opening which is more accurate, but reduces the relevance of the statement. Please consider removal of the statement the King Vision view was a grade II, therefore the CL view would be higher. This is speculative. As stated previously the DL CL view remains unknown as it was never performed, and can not be estimated from the visualization findings of a different device. Please consider removal or rephrase the statement Channeled VLs have a number of advantages over those with angulated blades, such as the GlideScope, and may shorten the time taken to position the endotracheal tube - this is referenced with a manikin study, to be correct this should be rephrased and was found to shorten the time taken to position the endotracheal tube in a small manikin study Please consider clarification of the referenced statement, Previous studies have demonstrated the Airtraq VL to provide improved laryngeal visualization of than the GlideScope. The manuscript refers to 2 manikin studies, and one prospective study where no statistically significant difference in grade I/II vs III/IV between the GlideScope and Airtraq groups were found. For inclusion this should be phrased Studies in manikins have suggested an improved laryngeal visualization with use of the Airtraq over the GlideScope. Again this is more accurate, but reduces the relevance of the statement. Please consider modifying the statement that makes it superior for those with limited mouth opening to the dimensions of which may make it superior as the referenced articles do not address this statement. 