The study of open data and its application has relied largely on case studies with relatively little quantitative survey work and analysis. From that perspective, this GODAN survey is a step forward and a useful contribution to the literature. However, the authors' report seems to miss some important opportunities to analyze data that they appear to have gathered through their questionnaire. The study design is methodologically sound. The survey instrument is straightforward and clear, and the response rate (over 50%) is good for this kind of survey in this field. While the authors spend some time discussing the differences between the distribution of respondents and the distribution of all GODAN partners - both regionally and by sector (government, private sector, etc.) - those differences in fact appear to be fairly minor (with the caveat that I am not a statistician). So the survey was well designed and got a good overall response that represented GODAN's constituent groups fairly. That said, the analysis and conclusions are disappointing. The data presented are largely descriptive of GODAN partners' activities, without shedding much light on how GODAN can better help these partners achieve their goals, which is the stated purpose of the study. There are some interesting findings, which the authors note: An apparent lack of attention to gender and nutrition per se, which may show a need for better strategic communication on these issues, and the clear indication that cost is a barrier to instituting open data programs. (This last may seem obvious, but the cost of open data programs has been a subject of some debate in the community working to apply open data for development.) However, most of the analyses presented are unsurprising and not as illuminating as they could be. Some further work could remedy these shortcomings. It appears that the authors could mine some of their own data more deeply. A critical question for open data in every area, including agriculture/nutrition, is to identify exactly what kinds of datasets are most valuable and measure the impact of applying that data. In fact, GODAN has recognized the need to help its partners focus on key datasets, and the open data package in beta (reference 7) is designed to do this. The questionnaire used in this study (presented in a supplementary file) had two useful questions at the end about the perceived impact and potential impact of data from different sources. The authors should present findings from those questions, both by supplying the underlying data (which appears to be missing) and their analysis of its meaning. In addition, the authors could make an important contribution to the literature by mining their partners' responses for concrete examples of agriculture and nutrition open data applications. Programs such as the Open Data 500 and the Open Data Impact Map have created databases with hundreds examples of open data projects in all sectors. The authors must have collected a number of valuable examples through their survey, but don't seem to have made that information accessible in an easily usable form. If they could do so, these other programs would be able to integrate their findings and improve the knowledge base for this information. Finally, the literature review is not adequate: Almost all the sources cited are GODAN's sources. The authors should provide a richer context by citing and discussing key sources on open data impact, cost analyses, studies of open data for development, and analyses of trends in applying open data for agriculture and nutrition. In sum, this is a useful study that seems to have collected more data than the authors have analyzed and reported on. Additional work to mine the data and present it in context would make this a stronger and more valuable contribution. 