Paragraph 2 should also indicate that antibodies purportedly recognizing PTMs at specific sites, need to have their recognition specificity also tested against the same PTM at different sites, in the same protein, or others, and with the same core sequence or others. Many so-called specific phosphotyrosine antibodies actually recognize the phosphotyrosine modification independently of its sequence context. "In spite of the intricate task of producing histone modification antibodies and their crucial role in chromatin biology, surprisingly, they remain to be insufficiently characterized" should be changed to "In spite of the intricate task of producing histone modification antibodies and their crucial role in chromatin biology, surprisingly, they remain insufficiently characterized" "the specificity data obtained for one batch of antibody do not necessarily reflect the properties of another one" Voskuil ( Commercial antibodies and their validation. Version 2. F1000Res. 2014 Oct 2 [revised 2014 Oct 15];3:232. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.4966.2. eCollection 2014) describes the relatively unknown practice of some antibody manufacturers to use historical data sheets for antibodies to which they do not apply. This should also be mentioned and cited. The recommendations in paragraph 4 are commendable. However, if manufacturers are expected to carry this out on every lot they sell, the author must acknowledge that the cost of antibodies will have to increase. "As proposed by others ( Bradbury Pluckthun, 2015 ) end-users should consider boycotting companies not complying with this demand, or at least stay away from products lacking a proper lot-specific documentation." Actually, this was not our main proposal. Our main point (amplified in Getting to reproducible antibodies: the rationale for sequenced recombinant characterized reagents. Bradbury AR, Plckthun A. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2015 Oct;28(10):303-5. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzv051) was that we should move away from the use of polyclonal antibodies altogether and use only well characterized sequenced recombinant antibodies. Only in this way can we ensure antibody reproducibility. In the last paragraph, the author indicates that recombinant antibodies (or other proteins) may solve this problem. However, this will only be the case if such binders can be unequivocally identified, which will only occur if sequences can be referred to unambiguously. Otherwise, as antibody companies are bought and sold, catalog numbers will change and it may become difficult to reproduce experiments, because it will not be clear which original antibody was used.