 The paper investigates the additive effects of isoproterenol, interleukin-6 and TNF-alpha on lipolysis in mature mouse 3T3-L1 adipocytes. For this, the maximal lipolytic doses of each of the three agonists were established and 3T3-L1 adipocytes were incubated for 24h with these doses, alone or in combination. Lipolysis was assessed as glycerol release into the medium over the 24h incubation period. The main conclusion to be drawn from the study is that IL-6 and TNF-alpha signaling are additive to the beta-adrenergic signaling with respect to 3T3-L1 adipocyte lipolysis. The investigators furthermore conclude " that this suggests that therapeutic inhibition of cytokine signaling will prevent excessive lipolysis, yet minimally interfere with maintaining normal responses to varying energy demands ". This addition seems to be too far-fetched for several reasons: 1. confirmation in human adipocytes is required, because there may be species differences; 2. the study tested maximal lipolytic doses of the three lipolytic agents and under physiological conditions such a combination is unlikely to occur; 3. it is well-known that in obesity responsiveness to beta-adrenergic stimulation is blunted, therefore it could also be that the increased lipolysis due to increased cytokine levels in obesity helps to maintain normal lipolytic responsiveness to increased energy demand rather than result in excessive lipolysis. Other comments: Glucagon is mentioned several times as a stimulant of lipolysis without appropriate reference. There are few and mostly inconsistent data on a potential lipolysis-stimulating effect of glucagon in humans. Since the studies do not address glucagon, I would suggest not to include glucagon in the introduction and abstract. I find the term confusing. Although it is explained in the introduction what the authors mean by coincident, its use is not necessary. The question can simply be whether cytokines and isoproterenol are additive in their effects on lipolysis or not. In the Methods it is stated that the optimal dose to induce fatty acid hydrolysis is identified. This should probably be triglyceride hydrolysis. Figure 1 represents the results of three groups. In the Methods these three groups are not mentioned. In the legend to figure 1 it is mentioned twice that mean values from three replicate experiments are shown. Both in Figure 1 as well as in the methods there is reference to statistical testing. However, the results of these tests are not reported. The text in the Results section refers to bar numbers in Figure 1, but these are not indicated in the figure. Why do the authors conclude that the more than additive effect of Il-6 and TNF-alpha suggests that independent, as well as overlapping, signaling pathways were activated? Please explain more clearly. 