 The article shows a review of 36 publicly annotated corpora in the biological domain. The analysis is performed taking into account different features such as type of text (abstracts, full text publications, etc.), types of entities, types of relationships (if any), number of documents, if automatic or manual annotation, if annotations are related to other resources (such as ontolologies), etc.It is an interesting and useful work that can help researchers to find a corpus to perform evaluations of their machine learning methods. As the author describes in the introduction sections, annotated corpora are valuable resources that allow to train and test algorithms and also to compare state-of-the art works each other.I think that the paper is a good contribution to the journal. Below I give several suggestions in order to improve the article as well as some data to correct a couple of mistakes. In the Introduction section, it would be beneficial to introduce to the reader the inter-annotator agreement as well as the main ways to calculate it. Before introducing the annotation schema it is necessary to give a definition of Schema (is it a conceptual schema? What are the elements a schema should contain) In the paragraph about DDI corpus, some remarks should be included: in the first version of the corpus used in the DDIExtraction 2011 task the drugs were automatically annotated by Metamap tool 1 but in the new version (used in DDI Extraction 2013 shared tasks), every annotation was manually revised by two pharmacists) At the end of this section, I would like to see something about the precision experts have annotating entities and relationships. This would also help to know what is the limit systems are able to manage recognizing entities and relations. In section Corpora and semantic types it is a good idea to give the number of citations from Google Scholar, although the most recent corpora have almost no citations. The DDI corpus has 0 citations because the reference is from October 2013; Segura-Bedmar et al. (2011) 1 is another reference that the author could include in the article corresponding to the first version of the corpus. Concerning the figures of DDI corpus, it consists of 792 texts selected from the DrugBank database (DDI-DrugBank dataset) and other 233 Medline abstracts (DDI-MedLine dataset) on the subject of DDIs. The corpus was manually annotated with a total of 18,502 pharmacological substances and 5028 DDIs, including both pharmacokinetic (PK) as well as pharmacodynamic (PD) interactions. Concerning drugs, there are two corpora that do not appear in the article: (a) PK Corpus and PF DDI Corpus 2 with approx. 600 abstracts about clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenetics, in-vitro and in-vivo drug-drug interactions. (b) PK DDI corpus 3 consisting of 64 FDA drug labels with annotations for drugs with their precipitant or object roles in drug-drug interaction. Instead of having a paragraph for each corpus, I suggest including a tabular representation of corpora and characteristics. For instance, with a column for each feature (document type, annotation tool, categories of entities, number of mentions, format, availability, etc.). This representation would help to compare different corpora. I also suggest mentioning that linguistic phenomena such as co-reference resolution are also required in annotation task, especially in the detection of entities. For instance, how are words such as , , and others annotated in these corpora? Some typos: In the section: List of biological corpora - Drug-Drug Interaction: ... has been extensively used for both training and evaluation for NER and relatiosnhip extarction tasks. References 1. Segura-Bedmar I, Martínez P, Sanchez-Cisneros D: The 1st DDIExtraction-2011 challenge task: Extraction of Drug-Drug Interactions from biomedical texts. Proceedings of the 1st Challenge Task on Drug-Drug Interaction Extraction. 2011; 761 : 1-9 Reference Source 2. Wu HY, Karnik S, Subhadarshini A, Wang Z, et al.: An integrated pharmacokinetics ontology and corpus for text mining. BMC Bioinformatics . 2013; 14 (35). PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 3. Boyce R, Gardner G, Harkema H: Using natural language processing to identify pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions described in drug package inserts. Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing . 2012. 206-213 Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Martínez P. Reviewer Report For: An analysis on the entity annotations in biological corpora [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :96 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.3456.r5114 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-96/v1#referee-response-5114 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Klinger R. Reviewer Report For: An analysis on the entity annotations in biological corpora [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :96 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.3456.r4561 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-96/v1#referee-response-4561 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 06 May 2014 Roman Klinger , Cognitive Interaction Technology – Center of Excellence (CIT-EC), Bielefeld University, Bielefeld, Germany Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.3456.r4561 The paper An analysis on the entity annotations in biological corpora is a review of several corpora which are available to the research community and which consist of textual data with annotation. These annotations are either on an entity level or with ... Continue reading READ ALL 