In this paper the authors modeled county level data about COVID-19 disease spread and county-level determinants as the disease spread is highly local. They linked confirmed infection numbers via growth curve modeling to a large number of area-level factors. They finally, used random forest modeling to model the estimated rate of infection to show interactions between area-level factors that associate with increased disease spread. They found interesting results such as the rate of change of the proportion of infected individuals in a county depends heavily on whether the counties are in urban or rural areas. These results are important for following the infection rate at a county level and helpful for developing possible mitigation strategy. I find that the paper is useful and interesting However, I have some specific minor comments for clarifications, typos and sentence constructions. I strongly, encourage the authors to read the manuscript carefully for the languages. Specific Comments: Introduction, 2 nd paragraph “how where” should be “how and where”. Please break up the sentence for a better understanding “In addition, with the realization that racial and ethnic minority groups are suffering disproportionately in the pandemic, social determinants of health (which are important contributors to health disparities) have garnered more attention.” Please use some commas/and in “They then merged this contextual data with county-level time series data from the JHU (Johns Hopkins University) CSSE (Center for Systems Science and Engineering) COVID-19 dashboard 3 “ For Random Forest forest regressions please consider changing “…..many subject matters.” into classification, regression etc. etc. Line 6 of the same section has “This results…..” should “The resulting….” Or “These results……” The authors use “randomForestSRC” procedure for automatic missing value estimation. I wonder whether for a specific random forest iteration, it imputes only once or multiple times and also whether one can find the difference in the final result with respect to the proportion of missing data. Some comments regarding that will be helpful. Please write the complete name of PAM for general readers. Table 2 has some empty values for relative importance, what does that mean? There are still some correlated variables considered as the classifying variables, although you mentioned about removing them. Any comment on that? Figure 6 co-plot could be rescaled to understand better. Second paragraph after Figure 7 talks about “rural forest”, what is that? 