 General Comments This is a useful article that reviews two essential approaches to the delivery of vaccines in older children/age groups in Africa Abstract Methods please list the electronic databases and add a line describing how quality assessment of retrieved articles. Results Please include number of countries represented by the 32 studies included in the review Conclusions The authors say, ‘Both SIAs and SBVs are routinely used to complement…’. This is incorrect based on the results reported in this review. SIAs are definitely more commonly/routinely used not SBVs. While the assertion in the 2 nd sentence is well known truth, authors have not provided any results in this review to support this. Introduction 2 nd paragraph, 1 st sentence- it is not entirely true that the immunisation gap results from the EPI not primarily targeting school aged children and adolescents. Gaps may result from poor coverage of childhood vaccinations, changing epidemiology, waning immunity requiring booster doses, etc. I suggest this paragraph should be revised to highlight the need to find suitable platforms reach older children/adolescents with vaccines primarily targeted at them, to address immunisation gaps and to deliver boosters. This is mentioned in the 3 rd paragraph but can come earlier and merged with the 2 nd paragraph 3 rd paragraph, 4 th sentence- The shift in susceptibility to older ages for rubella will be the consequence of introducing rubella vaccine with suboptimal coverage like is currently seen for measles in Africa and as already reported elsewhere. I suggest a revision here to make this clear given the setting for the review. 5 th paragraph, 3 rd sentence- HPV is not the main vaccine administered through SBVs in Africa. The few pilot HPV SBV do not compare to the use of SBV for MR, YF and MeningA campaigns. 5 th paragraph, 4th sentence- is high coverage with SBVs a given considering its dependence on school enrollment? In the few cases where high coverage is reported, is the denominator population all school-age children or just enrolled children? Methods Study selection, item 2- are school age children/adolescents the same as those enrolled? Should authors not consider differentiating between both or clarify that they mean the same thing for purposes of this review? Study selection, item 4- it is unclear why outcomes around cost of vaccine delivery were not extended to cost effectiveness if the data was reported in retrieved articles. In my opinion, not doing this is a missed opportunity to increase the relevance of results here to policy makers. This will increase the relevance of results here to policy makers. The last sentence under study selection should be started as a new paragraph Quality assessment of included studies- as earlier I mentioned earlier, not including papers reporting cost effectiveness is a significant omission. Data synthesis and analyses- It is my understanding that a complete case analyses what you do when you restrict analyses to complete datasets followed by imputation for missing values and analyses of datasets with imputed data for comparison? Please clarify It would be helpful to have some more description of how imputation was done and a summary of the extent of missingness so readers can assess the extent to which the results depend on imputed data. Why did authors use a 10% significance threshold? Are the categories of inconsistency arbitrary selections by authors or supported by a reference? Results Literature search- Most of this text can be left out or shortened since all of this information is displayed in SF2. Characteristics of included study 1 st sentence is a repetition What is an epidemiological report? Last sentence page 4, are there 31 or 32 studies? Risk of bias and quality assessment- a table showing the quality rating for each included study would be helpful. Perhaps this table can replace figures 2a and 2b (move to supplementary file) or quality is reported in an additional column in tables 1-4 Comparison of vaccination coverage I think it is more useful to compare the SIA vs SBV for the same vaccines. Coverage for vaccines requiring multiple doses in SIA or SBV should not be compared to those requiring a single dose. There are also other sociocultural and religious issues associated with the uptake of HPV vaccination in particular. Figure 5 may be more useful if pooled coverage estimates by vaccine are included Subgroup analyses for vaccination coverage Please revise the 2 nd sentence “For SIAs, …” Cost of vaccine delivery strategy SBVs-Some information about the unit cost of the vaccine would be useful. Also, whether the vaccine procurement was subsidized by GAVI or not. Summaries of the total economic cost per fully immunised child cannot be correct if economic costs do not include vaccine costs. For the pooled coverage estimates, authors do not comment on heterogeneity/I-square results at all yet there is significant heterogeneity for many of the results. Is there an explanation for this? Discussion 1 st paragraph, 2 nd sentence- Pooled coverage estimates by vaccine is given in the results so beyond the caveat given for single vs. multiple dose vaccines, it would be useful to read authors’ opinion about the impact of heterogeneity studies in these estimates. 2 nd paragraph- I am not sure I agree measles coverage by SIA should be described as high. As I alluded to earlier, HPV coverage in SBVs has to be interpreted with caution 4 th paragraph- I am not convinced, at least by the results presented here that SBVs are likely to be more cost-effective even with high school enrolment. Authors need to provide more data and vaccine delivery costs are not the same as cost effectiveness of the strategy Strength and limitations While it is good to see comments about heterogeneity, it is important to mention this in the results according to cut-offs given in the methods. While school enrolment in general is lower than it should be in Africa, one other limitation is data on school enrolment in the settings covered by included studies was not available Implication for policy and research I think the conclusion here regarding enrolment and effectiveness of SIAs compared to SBV is speculative. There is simply not enough data in this review especially for SBV to support this. 