Comments: Abstract: Abstract should be rewritten even the IC 50 of standard drugs are not matching with the result section of the manuscript. Keywords: Leishmania major and Solanum nigrum should be in italics throughout the manuscript; eg: Leishmania major and Solanum nigrum Methods: No subheading or paragraph describes the maintenance of cell lines which is being used for cytotoxicity. This is important information which is missing. Please add these details. Mice and Leishmania parasites: We wonder that the parasites are being cultured in Drosophila medium instead of M199 or RPMI. Drosophila medium is often used to achieve the fast primary isolation rather than maintenance. The M199 and RPMI media are far better for the maintenance of the parasites. Preparation of the stock solution of test extracts: The stock solution of the extracts in the culture medium should be prepared freshly immediate before the use. It should not be stored for later use as it may change the pH value of the medium which can hamper the activity of the extracts. It also can lead to the high rate of contamination. Furthermore, if at all, it should be stored only in the solvent not in the medium. cytotoxicity assay using Vero cells to determine IC 50: This paragraph needs to be rewritten. There are no details of counting of the cells. In the beginning of the manuscript, the authors mention volume of the suspension of cells from which 100ul of cells were directly used and finally declared it as 1x10 6 cells per ml. To our minds the centrifugation and counting of the cells with its procedure is extremely important to claim any activity of anti leishmanial compounds. Otherwise results are difficult to be reproduced. It is also not clear, how the authors could test 6 dilutions of 4 extracts?. As per the description of plate designing the cells were plated only in two wells of A-H row? (as mentioned in line no 11 in the above subheading). This totals to only 16. It is serious concern for this reviewer. Again authors have not mentioned the time duration of incubation before aspirating out the MEM medium. It is the required time for the adhering to the solid phase. Otherwise cell will also be aspirated off with the medium, and making the study claims untenable. Again the same section authors have no-where mentioned the standard drugs and concentrations thereof, if at all used for the assay. But in the result section the results of the standard drugs are mentioned on the top. How come? Authors should also mention the exact timing of incubation performed by them after MTT addition , not 2-4 hrs, which is very arbitrary and not acceptable. Evaluation of MIC Evaluation of IC 50 and anti-promastigote assay. A big question is, if the authors performed two different tests to evaluate MIC and IC 50 value individually? If not then the heading can be merged as Antipromastigote assay to evaluate the IC 50 and MIC of the Test extracts. Evaluation of IC 50 and antipromastigote assay. What does authors mean by serial dilutions of 2.010 3 , 1.010 3 , 5.010 2 , 2.510 2,1.2510 2, and 6.2510 1 ? The dilutions are written in different manner, either as log or serial, but not like this. if these are extract’s dilutions than there should be uniformity in the unit representation of the concentration of the drugs for all assays. Somewhere it is mg/ml and somewhere its ug/ml for the same drugs. Again there is no discussion of standard drugs under this subheading. Authors should mention method of visual reading by microscopic observation (if done) before mentioning the survival comparison. Anti-amastigote assay: The amount of sterile cold PBS injected in the peritoneum seems very low in volume.10 ul will go no where and no one can withdraw it back. write carefully. What was the ratio of macrophage and promastigotes used for this assay. No counting and ratio is mentioned. Were 4 hrs sufficient for the infection incubation as the promastigotes takes at least 8-12 hrs for engulfment to Maximum 24 hrs. in the manuscript again the plate was incubated for 24 hrs but after the washing step. After reading their protocol, we really cannot believe the results, if these are genuine. And what was the need of second incubation. In this section the concentration of plant extracts used are missing. Authors must have mentioned the magnification (x) used for the microscopic observation. Amastigotes are only possible to visualize at 1000 x magnification with oil which is not possible in 24 well plate directly. We can’t understand how authors could count the amastigotes. Statistical analysis: All the experiments could have been performed in duplicate wells in the same assay. And also could have been repeated thrice for mean and SD Value, which is not done in cytotoxic and antipromastigote assays mentioned in this manuscript. Culture was done in duplicate only in anti-amastigote assay, for which p value can be calculated by simple way. ANOVA and Tukey’s Test is not needed. Results: As there are so many flaws in methodology section there is no meaning of evaluating-the results. At every step the results must match with the methodology used. This is missing in this otherwise poorly written paper. Even the concentration unit is not uniform. The IC 50 value of standard drugs are not even appropriate . Figure 1 is not even clear to visualize the macrophages. How come author counted the amastigotes? Recommendation: The authors are encouraged to go through a recent publication by Srivastava et al, 2017 1 and resubmit the manuscript as fresh. 