The correspondence by K. Davis and colleagues regarding the recently published study by Segerdahl et al . raises important and valid concerns regarding the conclusion of the paper. The issue is important as the report appeared in a high visibility journal, and the authors make the strong claim that they have identified a single "pain center" in the cortex. The latter has been a quest sought by many pain researchers since the advent of neuroimaging technology. Most importantly a lack of adequate statistical power and a proper control are the most obvious technical weaknesses pinpointed by Davis et al .. Perhaps it would be informative to elaborate on this issue, specifically regarding how an underpowered study can lead into discovering a brain "specific center" for pain perception, the validity of which is doubted by senior scientists in the field. Neuroimaging studies, whether based on BOLD or ASL, when attempting to identify brain activity relative to a task commonly first identify in each participant brain activity related to the task, average these patterns across all participants, and then use a set of statistical criteria to determine what brain areas are statistically significantly conveying information about the task. In the present study only one brain region passed the specific criteria used and thus we have a single brain area related to the task. Not surprisingly the area is the posterior insula. A brain region that 10 years ago was described to be most commonly observed activated area to any painful stimuli 1 and currently in a PubMed term-based meta-analysis, neurosynth ( www.neurosynth.org ), it is identified (together with the secondary somatosensory cortex) as the region with highest reverse inference probability (z-score 13.0) for association with the term , based on 420 publications. Thus, there is good evidence for this region being involved in pain related studies, and in an underpowered study where high thresholds becomes necessary to identify brain activity it is not surprising that only this one region is identified. Additionally one fully expects that with increased power most of the extended set of brain regions identified in neurosynth, whether called or pain connectome, would also be observed independent of the neuroimaging technology used (tip of the iceberg phenomenon). A simple analogy can be derived from astronomy. Modern telescopes provide us with a picture of the sky full of millions of stars and galaxies. However, even today if we look at the sky by a telescope manufactured by Galileo, or having an equivalent resolution, we will still only observe the handful of stars that Galileo was describing 450 years ago. The other important issue of the paper by Segerdahl et al . regards the conceptual implications, an issue that Davis et al . mention and again is important to elaborate. In the effort of proving that pain is in and of itself a unique sensory system, a large number of pain scientists have espoused the notion of dedicated real estate in the cortex for pain. Yet, isolation of such a single region has the strong implication that the conscious, subjective, and affective perception of pain is all captured in this one brain area. The latter implies the thought experiment of excising the region and placing it in a dish (perhaps also keeping all the tissue that connects it to the periphery), with which act we can claim to recapitulate pain consciousness in a dish, which seems absurd and inconsistent with modern theories relating the brain to perception 2 . Borsooks commentary on the problems associated with Segerdahl et al . publication is also very astute 3 . He points that the competition to publish in high end journals pushes the scientist into making more extravagant conclusions than even the author herself or himself actually does not trust. Yet ultimately responsibility rests on the peer review process, and the latter is not guaranteed to be full proof. References 1. Apkarian AV, Bushnell MC, Treede RD, Zubieta JK: Human brain mechanisms of pain perception and regulation in health and disease. Eur J Pain . 2005; 9 (4): 463-484 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 2. Baliki MN, Apkarian AV: Nociception, Pain, Negative Moods, and Behavior Selection. Neuron . 2015; 87 (3): 474-491 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 3. Borsook D: Referee Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [v1; ref status: approved 1, http://f1000r.es/5o3]. F1000Res . 2015; 4 : 362 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Apkarian AV. Reviewer Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :362 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7347.r9627 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-362/v1#referee-response-9627 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Borsook D. Reviewer Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :362 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7347.r9663 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-362/v1#referee-response-9663 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 28 Jul 2015 David Borsook , Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7347.r9663 When Research Reports may be Painful - Open Discourse should Prevail Karen Davis and coauthors, including notable researchers in the pain imaging field, including Robert Coghill and Catherine Bushnell 1 , argue strongly against the concept reported in Nature Neuroscience by Segerdahl ... Continue reading READ ALL 