 In this paper, the authors characterize a suppressor of the vtc1-1 mutation, which they named svt2 . The authors characterize the phenotype of the vtc1-1 mutants that carry the suppressor mutation and show that the plants have characteristics reminiscent of the L er accession. Molecular characterization of the suppressed plants show that the suppressor mutation is apparently a reversion of the original vtc1-1 mutation, and surprisingly, have additional genomic signatures of the L er ecotype as well as additional mutations. There are several problems with the experimental methods used in this manuscript. First, according to Figure 1 of the manuscript, the authors screened the M 0 generation (the mutagenized seed) for wt ascorbic acid content. This is a significant problem for the subsequent mutant analysis in this manuscript. When Arabidopsis seed are mutagenized, the individual cells of the meristem on the seed are mutagenized independently. When the seed germinate, the plants are genetic mosaics. In addition, only those mutations in the L2 layer that gives rise to the germ cells will pass on the mutations. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that a seedling with wt ascorbic acid levels would be isolated from the M 0 , because it would take the accumulation of many independent mutations, each of which would need to lead to suppression of vtc1. It is possible that a large sector of an M 0 seedling could contain a suppressor mutation that leads to wt ascorbic acid levels, but this sector would have to include cells in the L2 layer for the mutation to be passed on to the next generation. Also, an L er -like sector should be obvious on a mostly Col-0 plant. Nonetheless, a sector that included the L2 would lead to segregation of the phenotype in the M 1 generation, because the cells in the sector would be heterozygous for the suppressor mutation. Second, the concentration of EMS commonly used for mutagenesis in Arabidopsis (0.2%) is known to cause multiple mutations per genome. When one isolates a mutant of interest from an EMS screen, one should back-cross it at least once to allow these other mutations to segregate away. Otherwise, one may observe unexpected results when analyzing the mutant of interest due to the effects of these other mutations. Third, when analyzing the sequence of the vtc1 gene in the original mutant and in the suppressor, svt2 , the authors compared the sequence to the L er and Col-0 sequences reported in Genbank and TAIR. Instead, the authors should sequence the vtc1 gene from their original vtc1-1 stock and the L er accession that is present in their lab. This is because it is known that nucleotide polymorphisms arise regularly in lab stocks such that a comparison between a lab stock of Col-0 and the reference sequence can show many differences. Because the authors are reporting unexpected sequencing results, they should show the actual sequence traces (from both strands) for the individual base pair differences highlighted in Figure S1. It would be appropriate to show these sequence traces in the supplemental data. Showing the sequencing traces for the base pair differences would demonstrate that the sequence differences are not due to ambiguous base calling or other sequencing errors. Fourth, the authors refer to the suppressed plants and their revertants has having a L er -like or Col-like phenotypes. Because the phenotype of vtc1 is lower ascorbic acid levels, and the putative suppressor has wt ascorbic acid levels, the ascorbic acid levels in the revertants should be measured to show that they are revertants, instead of relying on the L er or Col phenotype. Fifth, because seed and pollen contamination can explain the results, the authors need to explicitly state the degrees to which they tried to eliminate these possible sources of contamination. Were plants of more than 1 genotype grown together? Were seeds of more than 1 genotype collected in the same room? Was soil stored where plants were setting seed? etc. The single, L er- like seedling found in the M 0 population can be explained as an L er seed that contaminated the Col-0 vtc1-1 seed stock used for the mutagenesis. This can be tested by sowing several thousand Col-0 vtc1-1 seed from that seed stock, and screening them for the presence of any L er contaminants. The results in Table 4 are the same as one would expect from seed contamination: the svt2 plants (with the L er phenotype) have all L er markers, and the revertants (with the Col phenotype) have all Col markers. The svt2 Col R1 M 2 plant highlighted in red shows the expected results if the parent of that plant was heterozygous for Col/L er . Again, the authors should state what extraordinary measures they used to eliminate seed and pollen contamination. Once these comments are addressed, the other unexpected results can be examined in a new light. 