A B S T R A C T
Background
Quit and Win contests were developed in the 1980s by the Minnesota Heart Health Program, and have been widely used since then
as a population-based smoking cessation intervention at local, national and international level. Since 1994 an international contest has
been held every two years in as many as 80 countries (2002).
Objectives
To determine whether quit and win contests can deliver higher long-term quit rates than baseline community quit rates.
To assess the impact of such programmes, we considered both the quit rates achieved by participants, and the population impact, which
takes into account the proportion of the target population entering the contest.
Search strategy
We searched theCochraneTobaccoAddictionGroup SpecializedRegister,with additional searches ofMEDLINE, EMBASE,CINAHL,
PsycINFO and Google Scholar. Search terms included competition*, quit and win, quit to win, contest*, prize*. Most recent search
date was November 2007.
Selection criteria
We considered randomized controlled trials, allocating individuals or communities to experimental or control conditions. We also
considered controlled studies with baseline and post-intervention measures.
Data collection and analysis
Data were extracted by one author and checked by the second. We contacted study authors for additional data where necessary. The
main outcome measure was abstinence from smoking for at least six months from the start of the intervention. We used the most
rigorous definition of abstinence in each trial, and biochemically validated rates where available.We decided against performing ametaanalysis,
because of the heterogeneity of the included studies, and the small number of scientifically valid studies.
Main results
Five studies met our inclusion criteria. Three demonstrated significantly higher quit rates (8% to 20%) for the quit and win group
than for the control group at the 12-month assessment. However, the population impact measure, where available, suggests that the
effect of contests on community prevalence of smoking is small, with fewer than one in 500 smokers quitting because of the contest.
Levels of deception, where they could be quantified, were high. Although surveys suggest that international quit and win contests may
be effective, especially in developing countries, the lack of controlled studies precludes any firm conclusions from this review.
Authors’ conclusions
Quit and win contests at local and regional level appear to deliver quit rates above baseline community rates, although the population
impact of the contests seems to be relatively low. Contests may be subject to levels of deception which could compromise the validity
of the intervention. International contests may prove to be an effective mechanism, particularly in developing countries, but a lack of
well-designed comparative studies precludes any firm conclusions.
P L A I N L A N G U A G E S U M M A R Y
Do Quit and Win contests encourage people to give up smoking
Controlled trials suggest that quit and win contests may help some smokers to quit, but they have little effect on community smoking
rates. Fewer than one smoker in 500 quits because of the contests. Deception levels, where they can be measured, are often high.
International quit and win contests are often well supported, especially in developing countries, but there is no clear evidence from
trials that they are effective.
B A C K G R O U N D
The Quit and Win contest was first developed by the Minnesota
HeartHealth Program (MHHP), and was run in threeMinnesota
communities in the early 1980s, usingmassmedia and posters and
brochures distributed to schools, workplaces and medical facilities
(Lando 1994). The prize was a holiday to Disneyworld, in a raffle
for those achieving biochemically validated cessation at onemonth
post-programme. A validated quit rate of 32%was achieved at one
month, although 16% of those originally claiming to have quit
did not turn out to be smoke-free, and relapse rates at 12 months
were high. The success of the programme has been influential,
particularly in the USA, where it has been the model for many
recruitment and cessation campaigns.
The rationale for developing the Quit and Win model was based
on a number of assumptions:
• widespread quit attempts may benefit from a network of
support from family, friends, colleagues, and other smokers
trying to quit, and from non-smoking members of the
community;
• most smokers prefer to try and quit on their own rather
than seeking treatment;
• most quit attempts fail within the first 30 days, with less
than half surviving even for one week;
• the possibility of winning a large prize could offset the
discomforts of quitting, and could attract large numbers of
smokers to make the attempt;
• after 30 days of abstinence, the intrinsic reinforcements for
quitting are more likely to maintain abstinence.
The key features of the seminal MHHP contests, many of which
remained unchanged through their national and international versions,
were:
1. Smoking status was validated prior to entry, and quitting was
biochemically validated among potential winners.
2. Smokers were adults (18+), and pledged to quit for 30 days on
the target quit date.
3. A large grand prize was offered, e.g. a family holiday, plus several
smaller prizes such as bicycles or health club membership.
4. Prizes were donated, or paid for by donation.
5. Contests were heavily promoted through the media, through
school children, and through community organizations and worksites.
6. Support was sought from health professionals and community
leaders.
7. Contests were run and promoted by a local volunteer task force,
led by a single paid staff member.
Quit and Win competitions have subsequently been developed
and extended to national and international applications. In 1985,
the North Karelia Project in Finland adopted it as part of a community-
based smoking cessation programme, and in the following
year the programme was offered nationally on Finnish television,
reaching an estimated 46% of adult smokers, and enrolling
1.6% of the adult smoking population. Among smokers who saw
at least one of the eight programmes, 7.5% made a quit attempt,
and 17% of those who made a quit attempt were abstinent at sixmonth
follow up (Korhonen 1992).
In 1994, under the auspices of the World Health Organization,
the first international Quit & Win contest was conducted, with
13 countries participating. The contest has been run every two
years since then, and has grown exponentially. Estimated quit rates
at one year follow up have shown great variation across different
countries, with year 2000 continuous abstinence rates reported to
range from 5% (Argentina) to 44% (regional China), and an average
across all participating countries of 21% (Sandstrom 2002).
The 2002 contest, the latest for which full details are readily available,
awarded a grand prize of US$10,000, and six regional prizes
of US$2500 drawn from among the national winners. This contest
attracted 700,000 participants from more than 80 countries.
The most recent International Quit and Win contest was held in
May 2004, and was administered by the National Public Health
Institute in Helsinki, Finland (KLT 2003). Preliminary results for
this contest are available on the organizers’ web site (Q&W2006)
While competitions and incentives may offer benefits in increased
participation rates, there are attendant risks to such a mechanism.
Verification, especially in a community-based intervention,
is often a thorny issue. An Australian study which interviewed a
pseudo-random sample of 300 entrants to a national stop-smoking
lottery, with amain prize of a car worth A$30,000, found that
34% of those who had entered were either never-smokers or exsmokers
at the time they signed up, even though a condition of
entry was being a verified current smoker (Chapman 1994).
Furthermore there are limitations to quit rates of participants as
the indicator of the success of a community-based programme
such as this. The MHHP, for example, has demonstrated that
achieved quit rates cannot be assessed in isolation from community
participation rates (Lando 1990). At first sight, the intervention
community’s quit rate of 37% appeared less impressive than
the control group’s 45%. However, the participation rate for the
intervention group was 1.06%of the eligible smoking population,
compared with the control community’s 0.2%, yielding a public
health impact (participation rate x cessation rate) more than four
times greater than for the control group. As thismeasure highlights
the interdependence of participation and cessation rates in any
assessment of the success of a cessation programme, we propose
to use it in this review to evaluate the studies, where the data will
support it.
Any enhanced participation rate that incentives may deliver also
has to be weighed against the stability of the long-term quit rates
that are achieved. Smokers who elect to take part in a cessation
programme that offers material rewards may be differently motivated
from those who sign up to more conventional cessation
methods, and this may be reflected in differential relapse rates.
Cost effectiveness
The use of rewards and incentives increases the costs of running
smoking cessations programmes, and the question must arise of
whether the outlay is justified by the benefits that the component
delivers. In other words, how many more quit attempters will join
a programme that rewards their participation, and how much, if
at all, is the quit rate enhanced by the end of programme follow
up ?
There is some evidence that community-based programmes fare
better thanworkplace ones in incentive-based recruitment (Nelson
1989).The PawtucketHeartHealth Program(PHHP) proactively
recruited smokers at the annual Octoberfest between 1983 and
1987, and also at local worksites from 1985 to 1987. On a cost
effectiveness analysis, those recruited at worksites cost more per
participant than those recruited at the Octoberfest. However, because
of the lower quit rates among the Octoberfest recruits, the
cost per successful quitter was much lower for the worksite recruits.
Any attempt to rate the efficacy of a programme needs to
be clear about the unit by which success is measured.
This review will attempt some assessment of the cost effectiveness
of programmes that incorporate reward mechanisms. The issue
of calculating and comparing programme costs, however, is problematic.
Those studies which report a costing component rarely
take full account of all the direct and indirect costs involved, and
sometimes make a series of rather tenuous assumptions to support
their estimate.
O B J E C T I V E S
To assess the effects of community-based contests such as Quit
and Win on rates of smoking cessation.
We will address the following questions:
(I) Cessation:
1.Do competitions, contests and incentives affect rates of smoking
cessation or rates of relapse a) among the participants and b) among
the target population?
2.Does the amount and type of incentive alter the rates of smoking
cessation?
(II) Recruitment:
1. Do prizes improve recruitment to community smoking cessation
programmes?
2. Does the amount and type of incentive alter the effect on recruitment
?
(III) General:
1. What are the costs to the community of incentives and contests
?
2. How great is the risk of disbenefits arising from the use of
competitions and incentives, eg false claims, ineligible applicants
?
M E T H O D S
Criteria for considering studies for this review
Types of studies
Randomized controlled trials allocating communities to intervention
or to control conditions.
Controlled trials with baseline measures and post-intervention
outcomes
Types of participants
Adult smokers, either gender, within the targeted community.
Types of interventions
Population-based quit and win contests at local, national and international
levels.
Types of outcome measures
Cessation:
Cessation rates, point prevalence and sustained abstinence, for a
minimumof sixmonths fromthe start of the intervention,whether
or not they were biochemically validated. The gold standard is
biochemically verified sustained abstinence for at least six months.
Recruitment:
Rates of recruitment to and participation in smoking cessation
programmes.
Public health impact (participation rate x cessation rate), wherever
the data are available.
Search methods for identification of studies
We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialized
Register , which includes studies identified by systematic electronic
searches of multiple databases, handsearching of specialist
journals, and ’grey’ literature (conference proceedings and unpublished
reports not normally covered by most electronic indexing
systems). In addition, we have used specifically developed strategies
to search four electronic databases, EMBASE, MEDLINE,
CINAHL and PsycINFO. Search terms included competition*,
contest*, prize*, quit and win, quit to win. For the 2008 update,
we also searchedGoogle Scholar, using the search string [“quit and
win” smoking]. The most recent search was November 2007.
Data collection and analysis
There were four stages in the review process:
Stage 1: One author prescreened all search results (abstracts), for
possible inclusion or as useful background
Stage 2: Two authors independently assessed relevant studies for
inclusion. We resolved discrepancies by consensus. The Co-ordinating
Editorwas available to resolve any persistent disagreements.
We have noted reasons for the non-inclusion of studies.
Stage 3:One author extracted data, and the second author checked
them. This stage included an evaluation of quality. Two independent
authors assessed each study according to the presence and
quality of the randomization process, whether or not trialists and
assessors were ’blinded’, whether the analysis was appropriate to
the study design, and the description of withdrawals and dropouts.
Stage 4:We decided not to performameta-analysis of the included
studies, because of their paucity, heterogenity of design and variable
quality.We have presented the results in a narrative form, and
have also tabulated themain findings of each study (Summary Table
1).We have also given details ofmany of the key excluded studies
of local and national quit and win contests (Appendix 1), and
the series ofWHO-sponsored international quit and win contests
(Appendix 2). For the updated version of this review, we include
the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group’s glossary of tobacco-related
terms (Appendix 3).
R E S U L T S
Description of studies
See:Characteristics of included studies;Characteristics of excluded
studies.
The history of Quit andWin contests, from their inception in the
Minnesota Heart Health Program (MHHP) in the early 1980s to
their global status (most recently inMay 2006), has been outlined
briefly in the background section of this review. The practicality
and relative success of the MHHP contests, with participation
rates of between 1%and 7%and follow-up abstinence rates (nonverified
self report) at six to eight months of between 21% and
24%, have encouraged other health promotion teams to run and
evaluate similar contests. Other landmark local and national quit
andwin contests are summarized inTable 2. Later studiesmodified
some of the contest parameters; the eligible age was lowered from
18 to 16 in the 1988 Swedish contest and to 17 in Finland 1986,
and raised to 20 in the Hunter Valley intervention; contest duration
was varied in the 26 COMMIT contests, and increased to six
weeks in the Medicine Hat contest. Prizes could be cash (PHHP,
COMMIT, Buffalo, Kick It!), holidays (Stanford Five City 1982,
Finland 1986, Sweden 1988, Buffalo, HeartbeatWales 1990, UK
Q&W1990,Medicine Hat, Kick It!) or consumer goods (Buffalo,
Hunter Valley 1991 [a car],Q&WUK 1990,Medicine Hat, Kick
It!).
International Quit andWin, run under the auspices of theWorld
Health Organization (WHO), and administered through the National
Public Health Institute (KTL) in Finland, has been held
every two years since 1994. Although each participating country
runs its own national competition, to the agreed rules of the controlling
body, all national prize winners are entered for a super
prize draw (US$10,000) plus six regional prizes of US$2500 each,
with their chances of winning proportionate to the number of participants
registered in each country. The International Quit and
Win campaign also conducts a one-year follow-up survey. From
the 2000 contest onwards, there have also been prize draws for
supporters of successful quitters, and for health professionals involved
in the administration of the contests (Sandstrom 2002).
Table 3 summarizes the international contests held to date.
Although much has been written about the Quit and Win experience,
and the concept has been widely applied, evaluations
have generally not been conducted to rigorous trial standards. We
found five studies which compared a quit and win contest with a
no-contest control group.
Lando 1991a randomized 200 smokers to receive the National
Cancer Institute’s Quit for Good self-help programme, 200 to receive
the Minnesota Quit and Win self-help materials, and 170
to act as a non-intervention control group. Participants were contacted
by phone seven months later, to assess smoking status, recall
and use of the brochures, and for a rating of their usefulness.
This trial tested the efficacy and acceptability of different self-help
cessation materials, and did not include the prize element of the
full Quit and Win contest.
Bains 2000 compared quit rates of 231 entrants for aQuit andWin
contest in two counties of Eastern Ontario with a non-participant
control group. The controls were smokers who had not entered the
contest and who lived in the same area or in two adjacent counties.
They had been contacted by a process of random telephone calls.
The Quit and Win contest offered the chance to win C$1000
to those participants who abstained for the month leading up
to the draw. The winners’ smoke-free status was confirmed by a
nominated ’buddy’. All entrants received a ’Quit Kit’ of support
materials, including cessation advice, maintenance tips, a list of
local cessation programmes, and a fridge magnet with the number
of a health information unit line. Follow up was by telephone
interview at one year.
McAlister 2000 described a quasi-experimental evaluation of a quit
and win contest held in Pitkaranta (in Russian Karelia). Following
on the success of the 1996 international quit and win contest held
in the area in May, the study team ran a continuous contest from
September 1996 toMarch 1997,with registering smokers required
to quit for at least four weeks to be eligible to win prizes. The
monthly draw was for a three-day break inNorthKarelia.Winners
were verified by carbon monoxide (CO) monitoring. Competing
smokers could also nominate a ’supporter’ (usually a spouse or
friend), who was also eligible for a prize draw. Leaflets and the local
press featured role-model stories and encouragement throughout
the duration of the contest. Baseline surveys were conducted in
Pitkaranta and in a neighbouring comparison district (Suojarvi),
and a panel of daily smokers (176 in Pitkaranta and 202 in Suojarvi)
were re-surveyed one year later.
Hahn 2005 used a quasi-randomized study to compare 494 quit
and win contestants (56% of all registrants) in Lexington-Fayette
county, Kentucky, with 512 randomly selected smokers from outside
the contest area. The intervention group received various
forms of quitting assistance, including weekly mailed postcards
giving gender-specific advice throughout the contest period, an
online cessation web site, a toll-free quit line and the chance to
win a grand prize of US$2500 or one of five US$500 prizes. The
contest was widely promoted through mass media, physicians,
community organizations and worksites. Intervention and control
subjects were surveyed by phone at baseline and at three, six and
twelve months, with all claims of abstinence verified by urinary
cotinine and the testimony of a nominated ’buddy’. The trialists
also reported separately (Hahn 2004) on a sub-group of 248 contest
participants and 290 controls defined as low-income (earning
less than US$25,000 a year).
Hawk 2006 reported a campaign in Erie and Niagara counties
(New York state), in which participants could choose to enter a
one-month quit and win contest with a grand prize of US$1000,
or could receive a free two-week supply of nicotine patches or gum,
or could combine both options. The contest alone attracted 849
smokers, the free nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) alone 690
smokers, and the combination 230 smokers. Background smoking
demographics were collected by two telephone surveys which
over-sampled smokers. Publicity materials included leaflets and
newsletters targeting African American and Latino residents, who
had higher rates of smoking than non-Hispanic white residents. As
well as comparing abstinence rates, the study set out to determine
the characteristics of the participants in their self-selected groups,
and to identify predictors of quitting.
Risk of bias in included studies
One of the five included studies (Lando 1991a) was a randomized
controlled trial, but gave no details about themethods of randomization,
and was therefore rated ’B’ (unclear) for concealment of
allocation. Bains 2000, McAlister 2000 and Hahn 2005 were all
controlled trials, without random allocation (rated ’C’, not applicable).
Hawk 2006 was an observational comparison study (rated
’C’, not applicable).
Lando 1991a conducted the study in an area that for three years
had been taking part in the Minnesota Heart Health Program
(MHHP), so that there was already a heightened awareness of the
smoking cessation campaign and of Quit and Win contests in
particular. Indeed, the participants had all taken part in baseline
screening for the MHHP, and 15% of all participants across the
three arms of the study had entered previous quit and win contests.
It is likely they would already be familiar with the Quit and Win
materials that some of them were being asked to test. The authors
commented that smokerswere somewhat under-represented in the
MHHP, with a smoking cohort of less than 28% compared with
the population prevalence rate of over 31%.Given that 60%of the
adult population presented for the initial MHHP screening, and
that study participants were drawn only from the screened group,
the under-representation of smokers within that group meant that
less than 54% of the smoking population of the area was eligible
to participate in the trial. It is also likely that those who did would
be unusually receptive to making a quit attempt.
Similarly, McAlister 2000 derived his experimental group from a
population survey linked with the 1996 International Quit and
Win contest held in Pitkaranta (Russian Karelia). This was one
of nine demonstration areas, designated by theWorld Health Organization
’an intensive campaign area’ (Korhonen 2000). Furthermore,
the study programme in Pitkaranta received support
throughout from staff at the North Karelia Project, and from the
National PublicHealth Institute of Finland (organizers of International
Quit and Win). The comparison community for the study
was neighbouring Suojarvi, which had no history of intensive antismoking
activities. Although the economy and demography of the
two areas were described as ’very similar’, no direct comparisons
were reported or quantified. The authors point out that the greater
success in following up the experimental group was probably attributable
to the more intense activity and interest in smoking issues
among health workers in Pitkaranta.
Bains 2000 assembled an experimental cohort of almost all (231/
239) of the smokers who were participating in a 1995 quit and win
contest held in two Eastern Ontario counties, while the control
group was composed of smokers who had not entered the contest
but had responded positively to a random telephone dialling programme.
The two groups were therefore very differently constituted,
and displayed many baseline disparities (see the Included
Studies table).
Hahn 2005 similarly targeted contestants in a local quit and win
contest (Bluegrass 2001), but unlike Bains selected the controls
from outside the contest catchment area. There were significant
differences between the groups by age, gender, education, income
and stage of change, but these were controlled for in the analyses.
Attrition rates were 37% for the intervention group and 40% for
controls.
Hawk 2006 did not randomize participants to the three interventions,
but explored differences between the self-selected groups.
All claims of abstinencewere by unvalidated self-report, and length
of follow up varied between four and seven months. Follow up
was achieved for about 60% of sampled participants, in similar
proportions across all three groups. The telephone survey-based
reference group is likely to be subject to similar constraints to those
reported for Bains 2000 above.
Only one of the included studies (Hahn 2005) attempted to validate
every claim of abstinence by testing for urinary cotinine, and
this study also routinely cross-checked with the testimony of a
nominated ’buddy’. Two of the studies did not use biochemical
validation, but relied upon self report (Lando 1991a) or ’buddy’
confirmation (Bains 2000). Both studies acknowledged that the
reported quit rates might therefore be somewhat inflated by false
claims. In the McAlister study, only the potential winners of the
prize draw had their claims of abstinence biochemically tested,
using expired CO. Hawk 2006 did not attempt any form of validation.
Lando 1991a,McAlister 2000 andHawk 2006 presented quit rates
as both an intention-to-treat analysis (i.e. including all participants
randomized in the denominator, and assuming those lost to follow
up to be continuing smokers) and on a responders-only basis.
Hahn 2005 reported quit rates in an intention-to-treat analysis as
both 7-day point prevalence and continuous abstinence measures,
and distinguished throughout between self-reported and biochemically
validated rates. Bains 2000 reported quit rates based only
on those who gave follow-up information at one year, but with a
follow-up rate of 86.5% of the intervention group and 84.4% of
the controls, this is unlikely to have significantly compromise the
final comparisons.
Effects of interventions
Hahn,McAlister and Bains all found significant differences in the
one-year quit rates between the experimental and control participants.
Hahn 2005 reported a 7.3% (36/494) biochemically validated
quit rate at 12 months for the quit and win group, compared with
0.6% (3/512) for the controls (P < 0.0001). This contrasts with
12-month self-reported abstinence rates of 24.6% and 8.1% respectively.
Only 59% of self-reported quitters who agreed to provide
a urine sample actually did so. Logistic regression analysis,
controlling for baseline differences in stage of change, age, education
and marital status, showed that at 12 months follow up
the intervention group had more than five times the odds of confirmed
abstinence than the control group (OR 5.3, 95% CI 2.3
to 12.5). Those who completed the study were significantly older,
more likely to bemarried, and to have higher educational level and
income than those who dropped out. Women, ethnic minorities
and those with an income below US$25,000 were as likely to quit
as men, whites, and those with a higher income.
McAlister 2000 reported a 7% (13/176) quit rate in Pitkaranta
comparedwith 0.5%(1/202; P < 0.05) in the comparison community
of Suojarvi, for smokerswho had abstained for longer than the
previous month. The corresponding point prevalence quit rates
were 14% (26/176) and 1% (2/202; P < 0.01). This result should
be viewed with some caution, for the reasons given earlier, and because
follow-up rates were relatively low and disparate; the study
team re-contacted 58% of the experimental panel at one year, but
only 42% of the controls.
Bains 2000 reported a 1% quit rate among the random survey
control group (4/385 on an intention-to-treat basis, or 4/325 on
a responders-only basis), and a 19.5% quit rate among the experimental
group, based on 200 responders. An intention-to-treat
analysis would yield a quit rate of 16.9%, still substantially higher
than in the control group. The authors urge caution, however, in
interpreting these results, since the two groups were profoundly
different. The experimental group, comprising contestants in a local
quit and win contest, were on average younger, heavier smokers,
better educated and more likely to be employed. The process
of random telephoning to assemble a control group tended
to identify people more likely to be at home (older, not working,
lower socio-economic status), leading to “systematic differences”
between smokers who enter quit smoking contests and smokers
who don’t. The study found no baseline demographic features to
be significantly predictive of cessation at one year.
Lando 1991a found no significant differences between the three
arms of the study. The Quit and Win group achieved a point
prevalence quit rate of 8.9% (17/191), the Quit for Good group
10.2% (20/197), and the no-materials control group 10.8% (17/
157). The equivalent intention-to-treat quit rates were 8.5%, 10%
and 10% respectively. However, the authors point to several factors
that affect interpretation of these results: Follow up that was
intended to evaluate at seven months was in fact conducted only
three or four months after the distribution of the brochures, and
may not have represented the stable long-term quit rates. More
significantly, nearly half of the quitters at follow up (24/53 [sic])
had stopped smoking before thematerialswere sent out.Quit rates
for those who only stopped after the receipt of the self-help materials
are reduced to 6.0% (11/184) for Quit and Win, 5.3% (10/
189) for Quit for Good, and 5.4% (8/148) for the control group.
The equivalent intention-to-treat rates for these groups would be
5.5%, 5% and 4.7% respectively. The authors speculate that the
baseline phone call may have prompted the spontaneous quit attempts,
but it should also be remembered that the trial was conducted
in a region already very committed and accustomed to the
MHHP, among a group of people who had already signed up to
that programme and been screened for it. This could well have
contributed to the awareness and receptivity of all participants in
the study, and is further reflected in the unusually high quit rate
achieved by the control group, who received no self-help assistance
at all.
Hawk 2006 detected no significant differences between the quit
rates of any of the three groups, whether on a per protocol or an
intention-to-treat analysis. Responders-only quit rates were 29%
for the quit and win contestants, 26%for theNRT users and 27%
for the combination group. Ethnic minority smokers were overrepresented
across the groups, suggesting that targeted recruitment
had been effective. The study demonstrated an unexpected interaction
between intervention and age, with younger people in the
combination group achieving higher abstinence rates than their
counterparts in the single intervention groups(33%, versusQ&W
25%and NRT 19%), while older participants in the combination
group achieved lower abstinence rates than those in the contest
and NRT groups (20%, versus Q&W 33% and NRT 31%).
Population impact
A useful measure of the efficacy of quit and win initiatives within
the community is the population impact of a given intervention.
This is calculated by multiplying the achieved quit rate by the
percentage of smokers who participated in the contest, and affords
a comparator between different events in different communities.
Our tabulation of key quit and win studies (Table 2) includes this
measure where it was reported or could be calculated.
Bains 2000 reports a population impact of 0.17%, based on a
participation rate of 0.83% of adult smokers. In practical terms,
and assuming there is a causal link between entering the contest
and quitting, this would mean that one in every 588 smokers
within the community might be expected to achieve long-term
abstinence because of the quit and win contest.
A similar calculation for the McAlister 2000 study gives a population
impact of 0.21%, based on the reported participation rate
of about 3% of smokers in the Pitkaranta contest; in other words,
about one in every 500 smokers in the community might be expected
to achieve abstinence through taking part in the contest.
NeitherHahn 2005 nor Hawk 2006 reported the smoking prevalence
rates in the target communities, so a population impactmeasure
could not be estimated for these studies.
It is not appropriate to attempt to derive a population impact
figure from the Lando study, partly because the experimental design
precludes it, but also because in this trial the Quit and Win
group were not offered the defining component of a quit and win
contest, namely a tangible incentive for abstinence. The selective
components and the distributive effects of randomization mean
that a population impact cannot be estimated for this trial.
D I S C U S S I O N
It is difficult to draw firmconclusions fromthe few controlled quit
and win studies that have been reported so far. The five included
studies in this review reported on relatively small numbers of participants.
They were all conducted within communities that had
current or prior experience of quit and win contests. For the most
part the control groups or communities were either not attuned
to smoking as a public health priority (McAlister 2000), or were
probably too different to support ameaningful comparison (Bains
2000). The single randomized trial (Lando 1991a) excluded the
’win’ component, and concentrated on the efficacy of the selfhelpmaterials.
It is therefore not possible to drawmeaningful conclusions
from this trial about the effectiveness of the fully functional
contest. The New York state study (Hawk 2006), while
demonstrating benefits for the three intervention groups, lacked a
true control group, and warned against over-interpretation of its
findings. Probably the most promising results have emerged from
Hahn 2005, in which biochemically validated outcomes and controlling
for baseline differences still demonstrated a benefit of the
quit and win contest. Their finding that women and low-income
smokers, both groups less likely to succeed in quitting, were as
likely to achieve abstinence as men and higher-income registrants,
shows particular promise.
Bains 1998, in her review of 17 population-based incentives trials,
estimates amean cessation rate of 23%among all participants in at
one year, and a 1% quit rate among all smokers in the target communities.
Such a measure, while interesting, makes no allowance
for heterogeneity among populations and trial designs. An alternative
measure of effect is the population impact (cessation rate
x percentage of smokers enrolled), where this is reported or can
be calculated. The Results section of our review gives the population
impact at longest follow up for Bains 2000 and McAlister
2000, and Table 2 gives this measure where it is reported or can be
estimated for the landmark excluded studies. Population impact
approximates the number of smokers who quit because of participating
in the intervention (in this case, a quit and win contest),
assuming that there is a causal link between the two. In our review,
population impact ranges from 0.07% at one year in HeartbeatWales
(Roberts 1993), which is roughly equal to one in every
1400 smokers in the community, to 0.61% in Bloomington at 3-
4 months (Lando 1991b), or roughly one in 160 smokers.
Design and evaluation
Population-based interventions are less amenable to a randomized
controlled trial (RCT) design than worksite- or clinically-based
ones. The organizers of the Swedish 1988 and 1989Quit andWin
competitions preferred amodified time-series design for their evaluation
(Tillgren 1995), and Bains 1998 discusses the prohibitive
logistics of setting up a community-based RCT to avoid selection
bias. In the same vein, Chapman 1993 has pointed out that in
developed countries such as Australia (and the same would hold
true for many regions in the USA and Europe) the ubiquity of tobacco
control laws, regulations, taxes, mass-reach campaigns and
a high level of media discussion have made controlled trials virtually
impossible to conduct, since comparable communities can
not be isolated from contaminating influences. The discussion of
the included studies in this review illustrates those difficulties.
Participants and non-participants
Smokerswho enter a quit andwin contest are usually a self-selected
group, and may share different characteristics from smokers who
choose not to join the contest. From the included and excluded
studies in this review, people who register for a contest tend to
be predominantly female (Altman 1987; Bains 2000; Cummings
1990;Hahn 2005;HEA 1991; Korhonen 1992;O’Connor 2006;
Roberts 1993;Tillgren 1992), younger (Altman 1987;Bains 2000;
Cummings 1990;Hahn 2005;Hawk 2006;HEA1991;Korhonen
1999; O’Connor 2006), better educated (Bains 2000; Cummings
1990; Hahn 2005; Hawk 2006; Korhonen 1999; Lando 1995a),
smoking more cigarettes per day (Bains 2000; Cummings 1990;
Hawk 2006; Korhonen 1999; O’Connor 2006), in the contemplation
or preparation stage of change (Hahn 2005; Lando 1991b;
Resnicow 1997; Roberts 1993),and to have made more previous
quit attempts than those smokers who do not enter the contest
(Korhonen 1999). The picture for socio-economic status is less
consistent, with Bains 2000 and HEA 1991 finding a preponderance
of professional and semi-professional participants (socioeconomic
class ABC1) signing up for the contest, while Tillgren
1992 and Lando 1991b report a higher proportion of manual or
blue-collar workers.
Interestingly, the Bluegrass trial found only a weak link between
signing up for the contest and the desire to win the cash prize, with
81% of low-income participants (less than US$25,000 a year) indicating
that they would have entered the contest anyway (Hahn
2004).O’Connor 2006 reported that fewer than one-third of participants
in the New York contests claimed to be financially motivated
to enter, with the contest that offered more than twice the
value in prize money achieving no greater reach or efficacy than
the other ten contests.
Quitters and non-quitters
There also appear to be clear differences among the participants
between those who succeeded in quitting and those who didn’t.
While several studies found no correlation between gender and
quitting success, higher quit rates amongmen than among women
were reported by Korhonen 1992 (16% versus 11%) and Tillgren
1992 (30% versus 25%). Tillgren also found that male quitters
tended to be younger (35 to 54) than female quitters (55 to 85).
Successful quitters tended to be older (HEA 1991; Leinweber
1994; Roberts 1993), of higher socio-economic status (Lefebvre
1990; Tillgren 1992), to smoke more heavily (Chapman 1993;
Roberts 1993), and to have made no or fewer previous quit attempts
than unsuccessful contestants (Chapman 1993; Leinweber
1994; Roberts 1993; Tillgren 1992). Two factors emerged across
several studies as consistent predictors of successful quitting: one
was the assistance of supportive others, whether a spouse or cohabiting
partner (Hawk 2006; Lefebvre 1990; Tillgren 1992),
non-smokers living with the contestant (Leinweber 1994), family
and friends (Lando 1991a; Roberts 1993) or workmates (Lefebvre
1990).UnfortunatelyHahn 2005, themost rigorously designed of
the included studies, did not measure the efficacy of the supportiveness
of the designated ’buddy’, and reported this as a limitation
of its own analysis (Hahn 2004). The second mechanism predictive
of success was abrupt or ’cold turkey’ cessation rather than tapering,
reducing smoking or switching brands (Hahn 2004; King
1987; Lando 1991b; Roberts 1993).
Publicity and recruitment
One reason for variation in the mix of smokers attracted to a contest
may derive in part from the methods used to promote it. All
the included quit and win contests used some form of mass media
promotion, including newspapers, radio and television, either
with paid or public service advertisements and articles.Most of the
campaigns used posters and fliers, distributed through pharmacies,
hospitals, dentists’ and doctors’ offices. Schools, churches, worksites,
libraries, sports events and shopping centres were routinely
leafleted. The Quit and Win/free NRT campaign (Hawk 2006)
targeted those ethnic minority groups with higher rates of smoking,
producing an eight-page newsletter featuring African American
and Latino testimonies, in English and Spanish versions. Some
contest organizers recruited proactively at festivals and health fairs
(Hahn 2004; Hahn 2005).
Several studies have suggested that the preponderance of younger,
employed, better educated smokers in quit and win contests may
reflect the channels through which entries are recruited. Among
the included studies, Bains 2000 has commented that the control
group who did not enter the quit and win contest tended to be
older, of lower socio-economic status, and unemployed or retired.
This group is especially vulnerable to chronic illness andmortality,
and to smoking-related diseases in particular. Hahn 2005, like
Bains, used quit and win contestants as the experimental group
and assembled the control group by random digit dialling (but
outside the intervention community), and found similar baseline
differences, with the control subjects being significantly older (43
versus 38) and with fewer college graduates (37% versus 65%).
Of the studies considered in this review, only one included and
two excluded studies reported that they had reached significant
numbers of blue-collar and lower-paid workers. Hahn 2004 reported
separately on a cohort of low-income smokers (earning under
US$25,000 a year), long identified as at higher risk of smoking-
related diseases and largely untouched by most tobacco cessation
approaches (Kiefe 2001). Despite the intervention group
achieving significantly higher long-term quit rates than the control
group, the authors caution against over-interpretation of the
results. They point out that the quit and win contestants were
younger, more educated, more likely to be in the preparation or
action stage of change and more likely to be unmarried than the
control group.
Deception
Although biochemical validation of claims of abstinence is the
gold standard for controlled trials (Benowitz 2002), in practice
most population-based contests, with limited resources and many
participants, only test the prize winners to verify their smoking
status. Most study quit rates are therefore based on self-reported
abstinence claims, and should be treated with some caution. The
only study which attempted biochemical validation of all claims of
abstinencewasHahn 2005; this study also contrasted self-reported
quit rates with confirmed ones, demonstrating more than a threefold
difference in twelve month quit rates for the intervention
group between self-reported (24.6%) and confirmed (7.3%) rates
of cessation. The control group disparity was more than thirteenfold
(8.1%versus 0.6%). Blanket biochemical verification at entry
would clearly be impractical and prohibitively expensive.Whether
some kind of affirmation procedure built into the contest protocol
would reduce levels of deception is questionable. It continues to
be a programme design issue that contest organizers have to live
with, and need to take account of in their analyses.
International Quit and Win
We have not been able to identify any controlled trials of international
quit and win contests, and it seems unlikely in practice that
any such studies can be implemented. There are, however, several
reports and population-based studies of six international contests
run so far (1994 to 2004), which merit consideration in the discussion
section of this review. We have no detailed information
about the findings of the 2006 contest.
The history of international quit and win contests is discussed
in the background section of this review, and descriptive features
of the contests held to date are summarized in Table 3. Briefly,
the contests have been run every two years within the WHO’s
CINDI framework (Countrywide Integrated Noncommunicable
Diseases Intervention) since 1994 by the National Public Health
Institute (KTL) in Finland, which supports national organizing
committees within the participating countries. Information and
contest entry is increasingly accessible on the world wide web
(www.quitandwin.org). Participants must be aged 18 or over, and
have been daily smokers for at least one year.Winners’ smoking status
is verified by a urine sample. From1998 the contests have been
supported jointly by the European Union and the Finnish Centre
for Health Promotion, and have also been sponsored by major
pharmaceutical companies. The 1998 contest, in which 200,000
people from 48 countries participated, recruited 0.1 promille (1
in 10,000) of all smokers worldwide. The first competition in
1994 involved 13 European countries, and the event has grown
steadily until 2002 when it encompassed 80 participating countries
worldwide (700,000 people). The most recent competition,
held inMay 2004, reached 73 countries (688,000 people) through
80 campaigns. It remains to be seen whether or not the reach of
the contest is beginning to plateau out. From 2000, the main cessation
contest has been augmented by a supporters’ contest and
by a health professionals’ contest.
Although there are great differences in quit rates between participating
countries, the organizers report that on average about
20% of contest participants are estimated to have remained continuously
abstinent at one-year follow up (Sandstrom 2002). Because
of the considerable variation in participation and abstinence
rates between participating countries, it was recognized
early on that some global measure was needed to afford comparability.
The population impact (Korhonen 2000), or public
health impact (Sandstrom 2001), calculated as participation rate
x conservative estimate of successful quitters, was proposed as
the most useful measure. One significant finding of Korhonen’s
comparison of eight campaign sites in 1996 is that, despite heterogeneous
one-year quit rates ranging from 11.9% (Finland) to
34.6% (Pitkaranta), the population impact measures suggested
that higher participation rates were not correlated with lower abstinence
rates. In other words, more smokers did not mean less
highly motivated smokers. Given that across a number of contests
the average cessation rate stayed relatively stable at between 10 and
30% (Sandstrom 2002), and given that the rates do not appear
to be diluted by increased participation, the potential of quit and
win contests would seem to depend primarily upon enhancing
participation rates (Lavack 2007).
The increasing heterogeneity of the participant countries makes
comparisons and meaningful conclusions very problematic. A report
of the 1996 contests in regional China and in Finland, for
example, attributes the spectacularly higher Chinese one-year quit
rate (41.7%versus 18.2%) to a number of cultural differences, including
a higher prevalence of less addicted or ’easy’ quitters, radically
different prevalence rates by gender, different sorts of prizes
(money versus a trip to the Olympics), and even pharmacologically
different nicotine patches in the two countries (Sun 2000).
Similarly, a report of the 1998 Iranian contest (Pourshams 2000)
speculated that the unusually high quit rate of 39.8% had been
contaminated by a mixture of false claims of abstinence (30% of
the biological samples indicating current smoking) and a high proportion
of nonsmokers entering the contest.The cautious estimate
(assuming non-responders to be smokers) of validated cessation
was adjusted to 27.8%, with the high level of success attributed to
the relative lack of other quitting facilities, Iran’s lower economic
status compared with European countries, and the possibly higher
participation rate of nonsmokers eager to win a prize. A recent
conference summary of the subsequent Quit andWin campaigns
in Iran has reported one-year quit rates of 65.5% (2000), 58%
(2002) and 68% (2004) (SarrafZadegan 2006).
The official report for the 2000 contest drew attention to the generally
higher quit and win cessation rates in developing countries,
compared with the developed world (Sandstrom 2002). Not only
are these contests considered to be cost-effective, with two-thirds
of them costing less than US$10,000 to run, but they have also
raised awareness of tobacco control issues, often by linking with
other smoking control programmes such as World No Tobacco
Day (Kenya), and by influencing anti-tobacco legislation (Nigeria,
Brazil).This comes at a time of aggressivemarketing by the tobacco
industry in the developing regions, and indeed British American
Tobacco (BAT) ran a counter-campaign to coincide with Quit
and Win in Kenya, as did BAT and Philip Morris in Romanian
schools.
As with regional and national contests, the quitting aid that has
consistently been cited in International Quit andWin evaluations
as the most important and effective is support from friends and
family. The addition in 2000 of the supporters’ contest to the
basic structure of the quit and win campaign is a response to that
finding, and an attempt to consolidate its effectiveness.
Cost effectiveness
Only one of the five included studies in this review reported any
information about the cost effectiveness of their intervention.
Hawk 2006 estimated that the cost per quitter for the Quit and
Win contestantswasUS$130, and for the freeNRTusersUS$179,
but pointed out that such comparisons may be misleading, since
the two groups were self-selected and demographically different
from each other.
A U T H O R S ’ C O N C L U S I O N S
Implications for practice
The conclusions and implications for practice and research are
based only upon the Included Studies in this review.
1. No randomized controlled trials have shown that quit and win
contests increase the number of people giving up smoking. However,
controlled studies suggest that there is an increase in quit
rates among participants compared to control populations. Possible
biases in these results include differences between control and
intervention populations and accuracy of outcome ascertainment
because of deception rates.
2. Using estimates from controlled trials, calculations of population
impact suggest that fewer than one in 500 smokers in com-
munities targeted by quit and win contests quit as a result of the
contest.
3. Enhancing participation rates may be important for delivering
improved absolute numbers of quitters through quit and win contests.
4. The two elements which appear to lead to success in a quit
andwin contest are supportive others (family, friends,workmates),
and abrupt quitting (’cold turkey’) rather than reducing or brand
switching.
5. There are insufficient data to draw conclusions about cost effectiveness
of quit and win contests
Implications for research
There are considerable difficulties in designing controlled studies
of quit and win contests.