Abstract
Background: The Charlson comorbidity index is widely used in ICD-9 administrative data, however, there is no
translation for Read/OXMIS coded data despite increasing use of the General Practice Research Database (GPRD).
Our main objective was to translate the Charlson index for use with Read/OXMIS coded data such as the GPRD
and test its association with mortality. We also aimed to provide a version of the comorbidity index for other
researchers using similar datasets.
Methods: Two clinicians translated the Charlson index into Read/OXMIS codes. We tested the association between
comorbidity score and increased mortality in 146 441 patients from the GPRD using proportional hazards models.
Results: This Read/OXMIS translation of the Charlson index contains 3156 codes. Our validation showed a strong
positive association between Charlson score and age. Cox proportional models show a positive increasing
association with mortality and Charlson score. The discrimination of the logistic regression model for mortality was
good (AUC = 0.853).
Conclusion: We have translated a commonly used comorbidity index into Read/OXMIS for use in UK primary care
databases. The translated index showed a good discrimination in our study population. This is the first study to
develop a co-morbidity index for use with the Read/OXMIS coding system and the GPRD. A copy of the comorbidity
index is provided for other researchers using similar databases.
Background
Studies of patient health should take into consideration
any independent predictors that will affect the outcome
of interest. Individual disease status is an important predictor
of mortality and health care usage especially in
studies of older patients, and in many cases, subjects
may have more than one co-existing illness at the same
time. Investigators may wish to conduct risk adjustment
for the additional health effects of these co-morbid
diseases.
Previous research has led to the development of summary
comorbidity measures which classify patients
according to their disease burden [1-4]. The most widely
used and validated index of comorbidity was developed
by Charlson and colleagues in the late 1980s [5,6]. The
Charlson index includes 17 categories of comorbid disease
weighted based on their association with 1 year allcause
mortality. Because the Charlson index is weighted
and allows for additive scoring, it can take into account
both the number and the severity of comorbidity to provide
a summary of disease burden for each individual
patient [6]. The index has been validated in several different
populations, and has been widely used in studies
involving cancer patients and survivors [7-11].
Recognizing the potential for its use in large database
studies that require risk adjustment for individual
patients, the Charlson index has previously been adapted
for use with administrative data [12-15]. These adaptations
involve searching individual level hospital claims
data for codes corresponding to the Charlson index
categories. However, these adaptations generally apply
only to ICD-9-CM coded data, an international coding
system for classification of diseases, symptoms and
signs. There is no current translation of the Charlson
index for Read and OXMIS coded data, two systems
which are based on ICD-9-CM and are widely used in
British primary care. Data using the Read and OXMIS
coding system has recently been made more readily
available from the General Practice Research Database
(GPRD), a UK-based database of clinical primary care
records. The GPRD is the world’s largest source of
anonymised longitudinal data from primary care, and
currently contains information on 3.6 million active
patients from 450 general practices in the UK [16].
With increasing use of the GPRD for academic and epidemiological
research, there is a need for a GPRD-compatible
research tool that will allow categorization and
adjustment for patient comorbidity.
The main aim of this paper is to develop a comorbidity
index based on the Charlson index for use with
Read/OXMIS coded data. We also describe the performance
of the new measure by testing whether comorbidity
is associated with increased mortality in a cohort
of patients from the GPRD. It is our hope that the
newly developed and tested translation of the Charlson
score can be used by other researchers working with
Read/OXMIS coded data and the GPRD.
Methods
Development of Read/OXMIS codes lists
The original Charlson index consists of 17 diagnostic
categories which provide the basis for assigning
weighted scores to each comorbid disease. Deyo et al
[12] describe a validated translation of each diagnostic
category of the Charlson index to ICD-9-CM codes. We
used the ICD-9-CM codes suggested by Deyo et al to
guide development of the Read/OXMIS code lists used
in this comorbidity index. Figure 1 summarizes our process
for translation of the index to Read/OXMIS codes
using one of the Charlson diagnostic categories, myocardial
infarction, as an example.
Using definitions provided by Deyo et al for each
Charlson diagnostic category, we searched the General
Practice Research Database Medical Dictionary (Version
0.3.7, Copyright © 2004) for potentially relevant Read/
OXMIS codes. This dictionary includes the GPRD medical
code for the type of event, the Read/OXMIS code for
the event and a description of the medical term. We
identified potential Read/OXMIS terms using two search
strategies. Firstly, we used specific terms in the ICD-9-
CM description of the event to search the GPRD dictionary.
Read codes have a hierarchical structure, with a
top level code for a disease category branching into
more precise and specific codes. Therefore, our second
strategy involved identifying relevant top level Read
codes and including all lower level codes. By using the
wild card (*), and hierarchies of Read codes, we generated
a list of all potentially related codes. We conducted
these Read/OXMIS searches for 16 of the diagnostic
categories used in the Charlson index. We treated the
cancer codes separately, and included all Read codes
starting with ‘B’, but excluding all codes for benign cancer
(B7), cancer in situ (B8) and neoplasms of uncertain
behaviour (B9). We tried to be over-inclusive in the
searching and used broad search terms when possible.
Two clinicians experienced in the use of Read codes
(PWR and SH) independently reviewed the list of all
Read/OXMIS codes identified through searches of the
GPRD medical dictionary. The clinicians selected relevant
Read/OXMIS codes and rejected codes not corresponding
to ICD-9-CM codes used in the Deyo
adaptation of the Charlson index. A third clinician
resolved any disagreement on coding. We calculated the
degree of inter-rater agreement between the two clinicians
reviewing Read/OXMIS code lists using the kappa
score, which provides an estimate of the level of agreement
between the two raters above that occurring due
to chance. The final list of Read/OXMIS codes in this
adaptation of the Charlson index is available in Additional
file 1.
13 Read/OXMIS codes were used in more than one
diagnostic category. These overlaps only occurred
between diabetes and peripheral vascular disease (i.e.
‘gangrene diabetic’ was coded as both ‘diabetes’ and
‘peripheral vascular disease’), and between diabetes and
diabetes with complications. One clinician (PWR) determined
that the codes should be classified as diabetes
codes.
Data source
The GPRD is the world’s largest anonymised database of
primary care records [16]. Practices participating in the
GPRD record data on clinical diagnoses, test results, prescriptions
and referral data from primary care. Clinical
data is coded using Read/OXMIS codes, along with the
date of original onset for chronic or recurrent conditions.
GPRD Recording Guidelines direct practices to provide a
record of all significant morbidity events in the patient’s
medical history, including a summary of events that
occurred before the patient joined the practice [17]. The
data from practices undergoes quality control procedures
and several validation studies have shown a high level of
data completeness within the GPRD [18].
Validation dataset
As part of a study looking at the unmet needs of longterm
survivors of cancer, we received a dataset containing
primary care records between 01/01/1987 and 30/
06/2006 for all patients in the GPRD with a diagnosis of
breast, colorectal or prostate cancer and more than five
years survival. We also received data on a control population
of patients with no record of breast, colorectal or
prostate cancer, matched to the cancer survivors by age,
gender and practice on a ratio of 1:4. The dataset
included data on 18707 breast cancer survivors, 5773
colorectal cancer survivors, 4856 prostate cancer survivors,
and 117105 control patients (total n = 146 441
patients). We used individual level clinical data in this
dataset to test the adapted Charlson index.
Assessing the comorbidity measure
Following translation of the Charlson index to Read/
OXMIS codes, we tested whether an increasing comorbidity
score was associated with increased patient mortality.
To achieve this, we applied the adapted weighted
Charlson index to the patient cohort obtained from the
GPRD. Our adapted comorbidity score used the original
Charlson score which does not include age, however,
Charlson and colleagues have also developed a combined
age-comorbidity index [19].
Cox proportional hazards models were fit with mortality
from July 1 2001 to 31 August 2006 as the dependent
variable. Charlson score was coded as a continuous
ordinal indicator variable, and was included along with
age as explanatory variables. Survival was measured in
days and associations are reported using hazard ratios
with Charlson score of 0 as the referent group. All analyses
were conducted using Stata MP (Version 10, College
Station, TX).
Discriminatory power of the model
The area under a receiver operating characteristic
(ROC) curve, or c-statistic, can be used to quantify how
well a predictor based on a number of variables discriminates
a dichotomous outcome [20]. We used a logistic
model to estimate the relationship between death
(dichotomous outcome coded 0/1) and the Charlson
index, after adjusting for age, quintiles of the the Index
of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) and gender, before producing
the ROC curve. Model discrimination was
assessed by the area under the ROC curve.
Adjusting variables
We included age in 2001, gender and socioeconomic
status in the models for adjustment. Age was categorized
in 5 groups of similar sizes (30-49, 50-59, 60-69,
70-79, 80+). The GPRD dataset includes an Index of
Multiple deprivation (IMD) score to estimate socioeconomic
status at practice level. The IMD covers a range
of indicators including income, employment, health
deprivation and disability, education, skills and training,
housing, and geographical access to services for each
small area in the UK [21]. IMD scores were grouped
into quintiles based on the spread of scores within each
country in the UK.
Results
Coding exercise
The inter-rater agreement between the two clinicians for
including Read/OXMIS codes in the Charlson index was
84.6%, with a kappa of 0.45, indicating a moderate level
of agreement [22]. Including the cancer codes, a total of
3156 Read/OXMIS codes were included in this adaptation
of the Charlson index.
Characteristics of the cohort
The mean age of the cohort was 73.7 (SD 12.5), and
73.5% of the patients were female. The high percentage
of female patients is due to the high proportion of
breast cancer survivors and gender matched controls in
the cohort. Table 1 shows the frequency and percentages
of patients with each of the diagnoses included in
the comorbidity index.
The original Charlson index weights each disease category
on the strength of its association with mortality.
Using the original Charlson weights for each disease
category, the breakdown by index score in our dataset is
shown in Figure 2.
Most of the patients in the validation dataset had no
comorbid disease (n = 60585). There were a few patients
with a very high Charlson score above 5. There was a
strong positive association between increasing Charlson
score and increasing age (p < 0.0001).
Patient mortality
In total, 11,490 patients died during the five-year period
from July 1 2001 to August 31 2006. Figure 3 shows the
survival curves for the population stratified according to
Charlson score.
Mortality was significantly associated with a Charlson
score of 1 or more, with a positive increasing association
as Charlson score increases (Table 2). There was an
increased risk of death amongst older patients and
amongst males.
Discrimination of the model
The discrimination of the logistic regression model was
good, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.853 (Figure
4). This indicates that the adaptation of the Charlson
index is a good predictor of mortality in the
validation dataset.
Discussion
We have translated a commonly used comorbidity index
into Read/OXMIS codes for use with UK primary care
databases. In a cohort of cancer survivors and matched
controls, a higher comorbidity score in this adaption of
the Charlson index was associated with an increased
risk of mortality after adjusting for age, deprivation
scores and gender. The translated comorbidity index
showed a good discrimination our study population. To
our knowledge, this is the first study to develop a
comorbidity index for use with this disease coding
system.
Although this adaptation of the Charlson index can be
applied to any Read/OXMIS coded dataset, we hope
that our adapted version of the Charlson index will be
especially useful to the increasing number of researchers
conducting work using the GPRD. GPRD data provides
an opportunity to conduct large scale epidemiological
research in primary health care use, health outcomes
and pharmacology. The Medicines and Healthcare products
Regulatory Agency (MRHA), which manages the
GPRD, has recently announced plans to link GPRD data
with Hospital Episodes Statistics (HES), cancer registrations
and Office for National Statistics databases. These
linkages will increase the value of conducting research
using the GPRD, as researchers will be able to trace
patient pathways through primary and secondary care.
Our adaptation of the Charlson index is available in
Additional file 1, and can be imported into statistical
software for use with other datasets. This index can be
used to quickly categorize patients into different comorbidity
levels, and will add explanatory power when conducting
analyses using Read/OXMIS coded datasets and
the GPRD.
We tested the association between increasing Charlson
score and mortality, which was the primary outcome
used in the development of the original score. Our
results confirm the hypothesis that patients with a
greater burden of disease will die sooner. One unexpected
result was a large jump in the risk of mortality in
patients with a Charlson score of 6 or above. This is
likely due to the number of patients in our cohort with
metastatic cancer, which generally has a very poor prognosis
in the small but high risk group of patients with a
score of 6 or more [23].
Limitations
This comorbidity index performed well in our validation
exercise, however, there are several areas where the
model may be inadequate. Firstly, it is possible that
some codes were not included when developing the
Read/OXMIS code lists for assessment. By using broad
search terms, hierarchical searches of Read codes, and
two reviewers to independently assess records, fewer
potentially relevant Read/OXMIS codes were excluded
from the final adaptation of the Charlson index. Secondly,
we used the original disease weights developed by
the authors of the original Charlson index almost twenty
years ago. One recent criticism of the Charlson index is
that certain diseases have an improved prognosis since
the original score was developed. For instance, according
to the original Charlson weighting, a positive AIDS disease
status carries an equivalent mortality risk to a diagnosis
of metastatic cancer. Only eight patients in our
dataset were diagnosed with AIDS, therefore, this issue
is unlikely to affect our validation results. In studies
where a larger proportion of individuals are HIV/AIDS
positive, investigators may wish to use updated weights
for HIV/AIDS taking into account that the burden of
disease and mortality is lower now than in the 1980s
[24].
Thirdly, recording of clinical outcomes in primary care
settings may be incomplete; a recent study demonstrated
that even major outcomes such as cancer may not be
recorded in patient electronic records [25]. Although
the GPRD data is subject to a number of quality checks,
it is possible that disease recording is incomplete. However,
many of the previous adaptations of the Charlson
index have used administrative data, where patient history
and comorbid disease may not be as recorded as
accurately as the clinical data available in datasets such
as the GPRD [26,27]. Omissions of major comorbid diseases
can result in an incorrect final Charlson score in
any study. These omissions are not an intrinsic
limitation in the tool that we have developed, but may
affect its functional ability in datasets such as the
GPRD. Future work should continue to validate the
accuracy of disease coding in administrative datasets
and the GPRD.
Our validation population of long-term cancer survivors
is unusual; these patients are older and sicker than
the general population. The cancer survivors have a
Charlson score of at least 2 and a high proportion are
female owing to the high number of breast cancer survivors.
Other patient cohorts using this adapted comorbidity
index will likely have different trends in mortality
and consultation behaviour. Future studies should apply
this Charlson adaptation to other study populations to
measure mortality and use of primary care services. We
were also unable to consider race or ethnicity in the
analysis as this information is not routinely collected in
the GPRD. These limitations, however, do not affect the
development and translation of the Charlson index to
Read/OXMIS codes, but may affect the results of the
validation exercise.
Conclusions
In conclusion, we have developed an adaptation of the
Charlson comorbidity index for use in Read/OXMIS
databases and the GPRD which predicts 5-year mortality
in a cohort of patients. Our adaptation is provided in a
downloadable format (Additional file 1) for other
researchers using similar databases. With increasing use
of large datasets for epidemiological research, researchers
must consider how disease status will affect their
outcomes of interest. Tools such as the Charlson index
can provide a summary of comorbidity for use in large
studies, and this paper demonstrates the utility of an
adaptation of the Charlson score in primary care coded
data.