Circulating insulin-like growth factor I in relation to melanoma risk in the European
Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition

Abbreviations used:
ANOVA: Analysis of variance
BMI: body mass index
CI: confidence interval
EPIC: European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition cohort
ICD-0-3: International Classification of Disease – Oncology – 3rd edition
ICD-10: International Classification of Disease – 10th edition
IGF-I: Insulin-like growth factor-I
OR: odds ratio
UK: United Kingdom
Article category: Cancer Epidemiology
Circulating insulin-like growth factor I in relation to melanoma risk in the European
Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition cohort
Abstract
Insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) regulates cell proliferation and apoptosis, and is thought to
play a role in tumour development. Previous prospective studies have shown that higher
circulating concentrations of IGF-I are associated with a higher risk of cancers at specific
sites, including breast and prostate. No prospective study has examined the association
between circulating IGF-I concentrations and melanoma risk. A nested case-control study of
1221 melanoma cases and 1221 controls was performed in the European Prospective
Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition cohort, a prospective cohort of 520,000 participants
recruited from 10 European countries. Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate
odds ratios (ORs) for incident melanoma in relation to circulating IGF-I concentrations,
measured by immunoassay. Analyses were conditioned on the matching factors and further
adjusted for age at blood collection, education, height, BMI, smoking status, alcohol intake,
marital status, physical activity, and in women only, use of menopausal hormone therapy.
There was no significant association between circulating IGF-I concentration and melanoma
risk (OR for highest vs lowest fifth=0.93 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.71 to 1.22)). There
was no significant heterogeneity in the association between IGF-I concentrations and
melanoma risk when subdivided by sex, age at blood collection, BMI, height, age at
diagnosis, time between blood collection and diagnosis, or by anatomical site or histological
subtype of the tumour (Pheterogeneity≥0.078). We found no evidence for an association
Accepted
between circulating concentrations of IGF-I measured in adulthood and the risk of melanoma.
Article This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Novelty and Impact: Previous case-control studies have examined the association between
IGF-I axis and the risk of melanoma, with inconsistent results. In this first prospective study
on this topic, we found no evidence for an association between circulating IGF-I
concentrations and risk of melanoma.
A possible association between the insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) and the risk of melanoma has
been proposed, but with inconsistent results so far. In this prospective study, the authors found no
evidence for an association between circulating IGF-I concentrations and melanoma risk. Although
details on major risk factors like sun exposure were missing, the large sample size with more than
1000 incident melanoma cases underscores the relevance of the finding.
Introduction
Worldwide there were an estimated 350,000 new cases of melanoma, and 60,000 deaths from
melanoma in 2015 (1). Exposure to ultraviolet radiation (specifically, intermittent exposure),
and phenotypic characteristics such as fairer skin colour, blond or red hair, and multiple naevi
and freckles are established risk factors for melanoma (2-4). There are also other putative or
possible risk factors for melanoma including occupational exposure to chemicals and ionizing
radiation (5).
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a polypeptide hormone that stimulates cell division and
inhibits apoptosis; it is through these properties that it is thought to play a role in the
development and progression of carcinogenesis (6). Prospective studies have shown that
higher circulating concentrations of IGF-I are associated with a higher risk of cancers at
specific sites, including the breast (7), prostate (8), and possibly the thyroid (9). Three casecontrol studies have examined the relationship between circulating IGF-I concentrations and
risk of melanoma, but the results were not consistent. One study found an inverse relationship
between circulating IGF-I concentration and risk of melanoma (10), but two studies found an
unexpected positive association (11,12). The results of case-control studies may be unreliable
if the development of melanoma affects circulating IGF-I concentrations, or if bias was
introduced in the selection of controls (13). Given this uncertainty, we examined the
association between circulating IGF-I concentrations measured in adulthood and the
subsequent risk of melanoma in a case-control study nested within the European Prospective
Accepted
Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) cohort.
Article This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Methods
Study population
The study design, including the recruitment, blood collection, and follow-up procedures of
EPIC has been described previously (4). Briefly, between 1992 and 2000 approximately
520,000 participants, mostly aged between 35 and 70 years, were recruited from 23 centres in
10 European countries (Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
Spain, Sweden, and the UK). Participants provided information on socio-demographic
characteristics, dietary intakes, and lifestyle factors. The study was approved by the
International Agency for Research on Cancer Ethics Committee and local ethics committees
in the participating countries. All participants gave written informed consent.
Selection of cases and controls
In most centres, follow-up for cancer incidence and mortality was conducted via record
linkage with regional and national registries. In France, Germany, and Greece, follow-up was
by a combination of methods, including health insurance records, cancer and pathology
registries and active follow-up through study subjects and their next-of-kin (15).
Cases were participants who were diagnosed with incident invasive melanoma of the skin
(WHO International Classification of Diseases-Oncology 3rd edition (ICD-O-3) codes 8720-
8790, with 5th digit behaviour code 3 signifying invasive malignancies) during follow-up, and
who had donated a blood sample and had not been diagnosed with cancer (except for nonmelanoma skin cancer) at baseline, and had not been diagnosed with other tumours (except
non-melanoma skin cancer) before the melanoma diagnosis. Superficial spreading
melanomas were defined as tumours with ICD-O-3 morphology code 8743/3, and nodular
melanomas as those with ICD-O-3 morphology code 8721/3. Melanomas of the head and
neck were tumours with International Classification of Diseases 10th edition (ICD-10) site
codes C44.0-C44.4, melanomas of the trunk were those with ICD-10 site code C44.5,
melanomas of the upper limbs were those with ICD-10 site code C44.6, and melanomas of
the lower limbs were those with ICD-10 site code C44.7. Participants were eligible for
selection as a control if they had provided a blood sample at baseline, and were alive and
without a cancer diagnosis (other than non-melanoma skin cancer) at the time of the
diagnosis of the index case. Randomly chosen controls were matched (1:1) to each case using
incidence density sampling (15). The matching criteria were: study centre, sex, age at blood
collection (± 1 year), and date (± 3 months), time of day (± 3 hours), and fasting status (< 3
hours, 3 to 6 hours, > 6 hours) at blood collection. The present study includes 1221 cases and
1221 controls (523 male cases and controls; 698 female cases and controls).
Laboratory measurements
Approximately 75% of participants provided a blood sample at recruitment (15). In most
centres whole blood was transported to a local laboratory, processed within 24 hours, and
transported to be stored centrally in liquid nitrogen at -196°C at the International Agency for
Research on Cancer. In Denmark, all blood samples were stored locally in nitrogen vapour at
-150°C, and in Sweden all blood samples were stored in electric freezers at -70°C. In the
Oxford cohort, samples were sent at ambient temperature to a central laboratory in Norfolk,
UK with a mean transit time of 1.5 days.
IGF-I concentration was measured in serum samples, except for the participants from
Norway and Umeå (Sweden), for which citrated plasma and EDTA plasma samples were
used, respectively. IGF-I concentration was measured in the Cancer Epidemiology Unit
(Oxford, United Kingdom) using the automated IDS-iSYS immunoassay system from
Immunodiagnostic Systems Ltd (Tyne & Wear, UK) (17). Laboratory personnel were blind to
the case-control status of the samples and each case-control set was analysed in the same
batch, together with duplicate quality control samples. The intra- and inter-assay coefficients
of variation were 3.9% and 4.7% at an overall mean concentration of 14.2 nmol/L.
Statistical analyses
All statistical analyses were run using Stata version 14.1 (Stata Corp, College Station, TX).
Participant characteristics were compared between cases and controls, for men and women
separately, using the paired-sample t test for continuous variables and the chi-square test for
categorical variables.
IGF-I concentration was logarithmically transformed (using the natural log transformation) to
approximate a normal distribution. Among controls only, geometric mean serum IGF-I
concentrations by participant characteristics were investigated using analysis of variance
(ANOVA), adjusted for batch, age at blood collection (as a continuous variable), sex,
country, and alcohol intake. Tests for linear trends across categories were performed by
scoring categories with consecutive integers.
Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for melanoma by quintiles of sexspecific serum IGF-I concentration at baseline (based on the sex-specific distributions in the
controls) were estimated using conditional logistic regression, conditioned on the matching
variables and. In the multivariable model, to allow for finer adjustment for age, the model
was adjusted for age at blood collection (in months, as a continuous variable), as well as
education (primary/none, secondary, degree), height (sex-specific quartiles), BMI (sexspecific quartiles), smoking status (never, former, current), alcohol intake (<1, 1-7, 8-19, 20-
39, >40 g/d), marital status (married/co-habiting, unmarried/not co-habiting), physical
activity (inactive, moderately inactive, moderately active, active (18)), and in women only,
use of menopausal hormone therapy (current, not current). For all covariates, any missing
values were assigned to a separate category. The odds of melanoma associated with a
doubling of IGF-I concentration were investigated as described above but using the logarithm
to the base 2 of serum IGF-I concentration.
Using conditional logistic regression, conditioning on the matching factors and adjusting for
the covariates listed above (where relevant), we also examined the association between IGF-I
and melanoma subdivided by major participant characteristics: sex, age at blood collection (<
55 years, ≥ 55 years), BMI (< 25 kg/m2
, ≥ 25 kg/m2
), height (sex-specific medians: < 176 cm
(men) or < 163 cm (women), ≥ 176 cm (men) or ≥ 163 cm (women)), and age at case
diagnosis (< 60 years, ≥ 60 years). In addition, to investigate the possibility of reverse
causality we examined the association between IGF-I and melanoma subdivided by time
between blood collection and diagnosis (< 4 years, ≥ 4 years). Finally, to explore whether
IGF-I may be differentially associated with sub-types of melanoma, we examined the
association between IGF-I and melanoma risk in categories of anatomical site (head and
neck, trunk, upper limbs, and lower limbs) and histological sub-type (superficial spreading
and nodular melanoma) of the tumour. For these analyses, controls were assigned to the same
category as their matched case. For the BMI subgroup analysis, participants were only
included if both the case and matched control had a BMI <25 kg/m2
, or if both case and
matched control had a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2
, with similar rules for the analyses subdivided by
height and age at blood collection. Tests for heterogeneity of risk between sub-groups were
performed using the likelihood ratio test, comparing models with and without the interaction
term between the logarithm of circulating IGF-I concentration and the variable of interest.
All statistical tests were two-sided, and p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
Results
Among men, cases were slightly taller, were more likely to have a university degree, and less
likely to be current smokers, compared to the controls. Among women, cases were also
slightly taller, but were otherwise similar to controls with regards to the characteristics listed
in Table 1. Among the cases, the mean time from blood collection to diagnosis was 6.5 years.
Among the controls, geometric mean IGF-I concentrations were significantly lower in
women, in those who were older at blood collection, and in those who drank the most alcohol
(Table 2). Among women, current menopausal hormone therapy users had lower mean IGF-I
concentrations. The lowest concentrations of IGF-I were in the 1st and 4th quartiles of BMI
and the highest concentrations were in the 2nd and 3rd quartiles. Circulating IGF-I
concentrations differed by country; participants from the Netherlands had the highest mean
IGF-I concentrations.
There was no significant association between serum IGF-I concentrations and the risk of
melanoma in either the basic model, or in the fully adjusted model, further adjusted for age at
blood collection, education, height, BMI, smoking status, alcohol intake, marital status,
physical activity, and use of menopausal hormone therapy. In the fully adjusted model, the
OR for a doubling in IGF-I concentration was 1.04 (95% CI: 0.84-1.28, Ptrend=0.736) (Table
3). When we examined the associations in pre-specified sub-groups, we found no significant
differences in associations by sex, age at blood collection, BMI, height, age at diagnosis, or
years between blood collection and diagnosis, or by anatomical site or histological sub-type
Accepted
of the tumour (Pheterogeneity≥0.078, for all subdivisions) (Table 4).
Article This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Discussion
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first prospective study to examine circulating
concentration of IGF-I measured in adulthood in relation to the risk of melanoma. We found
no association overall, or for specific anatomical sites or histological sub-types of melanoma.
Furthermore, we found no evidence of heterogeneity in the association between circulating
IGF-I concentrations and risk of melanoma by sex, age at blood collection, BMI, height, age
at diagnosis, or time between blood collection and diagnosis.
Three small case-control studies have examined circulating IGF-I concentrations and risk of
melanoma, but the findings were inconsistent (10-12). The reason for the inconsistency in the
results of these case-control studies is unclear, but the selection of controls in a case-control
study can bias the association between exposure and disease (13). In addition, the results of
case-control studies may be influenced by reverse causation bias if the presence of disease
affects circulating IGF-I concentrations.
Laboratory work has indicated that the IGF-I axis may play a role in melanoma progression;
specifically, studies have reported that IGF-I enhances survival and migration of melanoma
cells in vitro (19,20). However, the present large prospective study did not find any relation
between circulating IGF-I concentrations and the risk of developing melanoma.
The strengths of our study include the large sample size, and the nested-case control design,
which allowed for the collection of blood samples before diagnosis of melanoma. A
limitation of our study is that we did not have information on some of the major risk factors
for melanoma – sun exposure, skin phototype, or family history of melanoma (2-4) – and
therefore we were unable to adjust for these factors in our analysis. However, these factors
would only distort the association of IGF-I with melanoma if they were also associated with
circulating IGF-I concentrations. In a previous case-control study, adjusting for number of
lifetime blistering sunburns, ability to tan and hair colour did not appreciably alter the
association between IGF-I and melanoma risk (11). In addition, in this study we used a single
measure of circulating IGF-I concentration, but previous work has shown good
reproducibility of circulating IGF-I concentrations over three (intra-class correlation
(ICC)=0.86) (21), and five (ICC=0.71) years (22). Finally, more than 90% of circulating IGFI is bound to IGF binding protein (IGFBP)-3 (23) and we did not measure IGFBPs in this
study. IGFBPs may affect the bioavailability and signalling of IGF-I, but the regulation of
IGF-I action by the IGFBPs is complex and not fully characterised (6). Prospective studies of
breast (7) and prostate cancer (8), have found positive associations with circulating IGF-I
concentrations and cancer risk, that were not changed after adjustment for the predominant
binding protein, IGFBP-3.
In conclusion, in this large prospective study, which included a total of 1221 cases of incident
melanoma, we did not find any evidence that circulating IGF-I concentration measured in
adulthood was associated with the risk of melanoma.