The Journal of Clinical Pathology publishes
about nine papers a month presenting
comparative (mostly primary) data. Their
aim is to inform the clinical readership
about the effects of disease or the
comparative effectiveness of differing
treatments.
During the last 10 years many internationally
recognised reporting guidelines
within health research have been developed.
The most notable of these are CONSORT
(CONsolidated Standards Of Reporting
Trials1), STROBE (STrengthening the
Reporting of Observational studies in
Epidemiology2) and STARD (STAndards
for the Reporting of Diagnostic accuracy
studies3). However, these guidelines have
been used infrequently. Last year the
umbrella network EQUATOR (Enhancing
the QUAlity and Transparency Of health
Research4) was officially launched with the
aim of enhancing the reliability of medical
research literature by promoting transparent
and accurate reporting of research
results. One way the network aimed to
do this was by increasing the usage of
robust reporting guidelines such as
CONSORT, STROBE and STARD. The
J Clin Pathol supports this initiative, and
the EQUATOR network is cited within
the author instructions.
All the guidelines require that estimates
should be given with some measure of
precision that is dependent on the sample
size. This precision usually takes the form
of a confidence interval around the point
estimate of effect. A review of the
3 months April to June 2009 revealed that
of 28 J Clin Pathol articles presenting
sample data, only six mentioned confidence
intervals, and only four presented
them correctly for all relevant estimates.
To facilitate adherence to the current
guidelines for contributors to J Clin
Pathol, this paper gives an overview of
confidence intervals and their interpretation
in the most commonly encountered
data scenarios. We do not give details of
calculation as this can be done by any
good statistics package, and the researcher
does not need to get involved with the
intricacies of the process. The emphasis is
on understanding the rationale and application.
AN ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLE
Suppose we want to know what percentage
of malignant mesotheliomas (MMs)
express GATA-6. We will look for GATA-
6 expression in a random sample of MMs.
The percentage that expresses GATA-6 in
that sample will give an estimate of the
population percentage.
THE SAMPLE ESTIMATE WILL NOT
USUALLY BE THE SAME AS THE
POPULATION VALUE.
How good an estimate the sample
yields depends on the sample size. Larger
samples give more precise estimates. It
makes sense to take into account the
sample size when interpreting the sample
results.
WHAT IS A CONFIDENCE INTERVAL?
A confidence interval gives the range of
population scenarios that the sample is
compatible with. It is a measure of
precision attached to, and built around,
a study estimate.
Suppose in a random sample of 10
MMs we find that eight express GATA-6.
Our best estimate of the percentage of all
MMs that express GATA-6 is 8/10=80%.
BUT THIS DOES NOT MEAN THAT
THE POPULATION PERCENTAGE IS
80%. We could quite reasonably expect
to obtain 8/10 if the population percentage
were 90% or 70% (when we would
expect to obtain about seven or nine of
our sample expressing GATA-6).
However, if the population percentage
were actually 20%, for instance, then we
would expect to see about two expressing
GATA-6 and would be surprised to find as
many as eight.
The confidence interval is built around
the sample estimate (80%) and gives the
range of population values that can
reasonably be expected to yield a sample
estimate of 80% from a sample of that
size. How ‘‘reasonable’’ it is for the
interval to contain the population value
is quantified by the percentage confidence
interval that we choose to give:
c The 95% confidence interval gives the
range within which we are 95%
confident the population value lies
(based on our sample)
c The 90% confidence interval is narrower
and gives the range within
which we are 90% confident the
population value lies
c The 80% confidence interval is even
narrower and gives the range within
which we are 80% confident the
population value lies. The interval is
narrower as we are less confident it
actually contains the population
value.
It is not impossible that the population
value lies outside the confidence interval;
we just know that it is unlikely with a
given level of confidence. A 95% confidence
interval is estimated from our
sample. We may be unlucky and obtain
one of the 5% of random samples that
yield a confidence interval that does not
contain the population value.
If we calculate the 95% confidence
interval around our sample estimate of
8/10, it is found to be (49% to 94%). This
means that we are 95% confident that the
population percentage of MMs that
express GATA-6 is between 49% and 94%.
The 80% confidence interval for the
sample estimate (8/10) is (60% to 91%),
which, as expected, is narrower, since we
are less confident (80% as opposed to
95%) that it contains the population
value.
It might seem odd that on the basis of
10 MMs we obtain limits that are not
values that could be obtained from a
sample of 10 (ie, with 10 MMs we could
not obtain a sample estimate of 49% as
we could have either 4/10 (40%) or 5/10
(50%), but not 4.9 of the 10, expressing
GATA-6). This does make sense though
because the population value might actually
be 49% even though we would never
obtain this sample estimate from 10
MMs. As stated above, THE SAMPLE
ESTIMATE IS UNLIKELY TO BE
EXACTLY THE SAME AS THE
POPULATION VALUE, particularly
where small numbers are sampled.
LARGER SAMPLES
If we take a larger sample, the specified
percentage confidence interval will be
narrower as we will have a more precise
estimate.
For example, if 80 of 100 randomly
sampled MMs express GATA-6, our sample
estimate is still 80% (80/100) but the
95% confidence interval is now (72% to
88%), which is more precise than the
(49% to 94%) obtained with the smaller
sample.
The 80% confidence interval for the 80/
100 is (75% to 85%).
Hence, as we would expect, the larger
sample gives a more precise estimate.
TERMINOLOGY
The edges of the confidence interval are
known as the confidence limits. For
example, the 95% confidence limits for
the example above are 49% and 94%. The
80% confidence limits are 60% and 91%.
Sometimes ‘‘confidence interval’’ is abbreviated
as ‘‘CI’’ and ‘‘confidence limits’’ as
‘‘CL’’.
The limits may be separated by the
word ‘‘to’’ as we have done (60% to 91%)
or by a comma (60%, 91%). Although a
dash is sometimes used (60–91%), this is
not recommended as it can cause confusion
with minus signs.
The width of a confidence interval is
the difference between the confidence
limits (ie, how far the interval spans).
For example, the 95% confidence interval
in the example based on a sample of 10 is
(49% to 94%), and hence of width 45%
(94249), while based on a sample of 100
the width is only 16% (88272).
Note that it is most common to cite
95% confidence intervals and if no percentage
is given then 95% confidence
should be assumed.
CONFIDENCE INTERVALS FOR OTHER
POPULATION PARAMETERS
The example just given considered a single
population percentage (the percentage of
MMs expressing GATA-6) and illustrates
the simplest case. Confidence intervals
can, and should, be built around any
sample estimate of a population value. For
example, the mean age of those expressing
GATA-6 or the difference in average ages
of those presenting with two different
diagnoses.
How wide a particular 95% confidence
interval is always depends on the sample
estimate and the sample size. For numeric
values, such as mean age or Ki-67 value,
the width of the confidence interval will
also depend on the variability of the
sample measurements.
CALCULATION OF CONFIDENCE
INTERVALS
For the majority of sample estimates a
measure of precision known as the standard
error can be calculated. There are
two main exceptions to this. First is
where no distribution can be assumed
and non-parametric estimates such as the
median are used. Second, if sample numbers
are small and the standard error
cannot accurately be established, exact
methods of confidence interval estimation
need to be used.
If a standard error can be calculated
then this is used to construct a confidence
interval for the estimate. The standard
error is positive and larger values mean
that the estimate is less precise. Smaller
samples yield larger standard errors and
wider confidence intervals.
A 95% confidence interval is given by
(sample estimate¡1.96 standard errors)
= ((sample estimate21.96 standard
errors) to (sample estimate+1.96 standard
errors)).
An 80% confidence interval is given by
(sample estimate¡1.28 standard errors)
= ((sample estimate21.28 standard
errors) to (sample estimate+1.28 standard
errors)).
For example, the standard error of the
percentage expressing GATA-6 based on a
sample of 100 MMs can be calculated to
be 4%.
The 95% confidence interval for the
80% sample estimate is calculated as:
(80¡1.96(4)) = (80¡7.84) = (72.16%
to 87.84%) which can be rounded to (72%
to 88%).
The 80% confidence interval is calculated
as: (80¡1.28(4)) = (80¡5.12) =
(74.88% to 85.12%) which can be rounded
to (75% to 85%).
CLINICAL INTERPRETATION OF
CONFIDENCE INTERVALS
It is important to give confidence intervals
around all sample estimates as they
allow clinical interpretation of the study
results that take into account the sample
size. We should believe in the estimate
based on 100 MMs more than that based
on only 10 MMs.
The 95% confidence interval for a
population estimate gives the range of
population scenarios with which the
sample values are compatible (with 95%
confidence). We can reasonably exclude
values outside this interval as being
unlikely, whereas we should consider the
possibility that anything within the interval
could reasonably be true.
RECENT PUBLISHED EXAMPLES
Florena et al5
This study compared megakaryocytes
(MKCs) between 30 patients with essential
thrombocythaemia (ET) and 30
patients with primary myelofibrosis
(PMF). The average difference of 11
(PMF 52, ET 41) was not significant
(p=0.068). A 95% confidence interval
for the difference (21.5 to 23.5) shows
the range of average differences with
which these two samples are compatible.
We cannot exclude an increased average
of 23.5 in the PMF group.
In order to fully interpret the results we
need to consider not only the p value but
also the confidence limits, in particular
whether 23.5 is a clinically important
difference that we would want to investigate
further. The sample data are compatible
with MKC values for patients
with ET being on average 1.5 higher and
23.5 lower than for patients with PMF.
By contrast, Florena et al5 also recorded
the percentages of MKCs positive for
BCL-XI for each of the 60 patients and
found a significant difference of 15.5
(PMF 35, ET 50.5; p=0.036) with a 95%
confidence interval of (2.2 to 28.8). This
interval shows that the data are compatible
with an average difference between
PMF and ET as small as 2.2 or as large as
28.8. To interpret the data we need to
consider the clinical relevance of those
limits. Interpretation cannot be made
merely using the p value.
Al-Mulla et al6
This study showed that the median age of
onset of breast cancer was 55 years for
individuals with mutation 185delAG in
exon 2 (95% confidence interval 46.7 to
59.5). It is important to consider the
confidence interval as this takes into
account the sample size that the median
age (55 years) is based on. If a much
smaller sample were used which yielded
the same average but a wider confidence
interval of, for example (23 to 78 years),
we would need to interpret the information
differently. In the latter scenario we
cannot draw any conclusions as the range
given (23 to 78 years) is so wide as to be
uninformative.
OTHER APPLICATIONS
A review of J Clin Pathol articles in the
3 months April to June 2009 shows that a
variety of summary statistics are used
regularly in J Clin Pathol. In all instances
confidence intervals are appropriate and
should be presented alongside the summary
estimates. The main forms are as follows.
Single percentage
Prevalence studies yield sample estimates
of population percentages. Other
instances where single percentages are
obtained are reliability studies (k) and
diagnostic studies (sensitivity, specificity,
positive and negative predictive values).
Note that for diagnostic studies the
sample size for the different estimates
varies. For example, sensitivity is based on
those with the disorder and specificity on
those without, the size of these two
groups possibly being quite different.
Single mean or median
We should be mindful of whether the
measurements are normally distributed
(hence the mean of the values will be a
valid summary) or not (when the median
is a better summary). Either way a
confidence interval should be given alongside
the mean or median.
Differences in percentages between two
groups
The analysis here is typically x2 or Fisher’s
exact test. A confidence interval should be
given for the percentage difference
between the two groups.
Difference in means or medians between
two groups
The analysis here is typically two sample
t test (means of normally distributed
data) or Mann–Whitney U test (medians
of non-normally distributed data). Some
skew data are actually log-normally
distributed and means can be calculated
on the transformed scale. A confidence
interval should be given for the difference
in mean or median between the
two groups.
For differences in percentages between
two groups and difference in means or
medians between two groups, note that a
common mistake is to calculate confidence
intervals for each group separately
but this is not what is required. The
confidence interval to present is for the
DIFFERENCE between groups.
Correlations
The relationship between two variables
using a correlation coefficient also
requires a confidence interval since it is a
sample estimate of the population value.
Hazard ratios
In J Clin Pathol it is not uncommon to see
time to event (survival) data presented.
The hazards of the event are compared
between groups and it is important that
their ratio is given with a measure of
precision that is dependent on sample size.
OVERVIEW
This article has highlighted an area
where vast improvements can be made
in the presentation and interpretation of
study results in the J Clin Pathol. We
expect authors to follow the guidelines
of the EQUATOR network, and having a
good understanding of confidence intervals
is vital to this. Our hope is that
this article will help researchers to make
the best use of the data they have
collected.