Abstract
Background: Minimisation can be used within treatment trials to ensure that prognostic factors
are evenly distributed between treatment groups. The technique is relatively straightforward to
apply but does require running tallies of patient recruitments to be made and some simple
calculations to be performed prior to each allocation. As computing facilities have become more
widely available, minimisation has become a more feasible option for many. Although the technique
has increased in popularity, the mode of application is often poorly reported and the choice of input
parameters not justified in any logical way.
Methods: We developed an automated package for patient allocation which incorporated a
simulation arm. We here demonstrate how simulation of data can help to determine the input
parameters to be used in a subsequent application of minimisation.
Results: Several scenarios were simulated. Within the selected scenarios, increasing the number
of factors did not substantially adversely affect the extent to which the treatment groups were
balanced with respect to the prognostic factors. Weighting of the factors tended to improve the
balance when factors had many categories with only a slight negative effect on the factors with
fewer categories. When interactions between factors were included as minimisation factors, there
was no major reduction in the balance overall.
Conclusion: With the advent of widely available computing facilities, researchers can be better
equipped to implement minimisation as a means of patient allocation. Simulations prior to study
commencement can assist in the choice of minimisation parameters and can be used to justify those
selections.
Background
Most medical researchers are aware that it is necessary to
perform a randomised controlled trial to effectively establish
the usefulness of a new treatment. The aim is that
treatments are compared on similar groups of patients.
Completely random allocation of patients to treatments
does not, however, ensure that the patient groups are similar
with respect to prognostic factors. For example, purely
by chance one of the treatment groups may have been
allocated older or more severely ill patients. If such an
imbalance in prognostic factors has occurred then it may
be difficult to attribute any differences to treatment, the
analyses will require adjustment and the study will have
less power.
Minimisation [1-3] is a dynamic allocation procedure that
ensures treatment groups are similar with respect to a
series of pre-specified prognostic factors. As patients are
recruited to the trial they are allocated to the treatment
group that will 'minimise' the differences in the distribution
of those factors between the groups. One pitfall of
this process is that the allocation is not random and hence
could be predicted. This problem is addressed by randomising
each patient but weighting the randomisation
towards the minimisation favoured treatment group for
that individual. By introducing weighted randomisation,
the individual is more likely to be allocated to receive the
preferred treatment, but is not guaranteed to do so. There
is a trade-off between the size of the weighting used and
the ability of the researcher to predict the next allocation.
To apply minimisation requires only simple algebra but
this may be problematic for the clinician with limited
time and resources. The advent of greater access to computing
technology has led to an increase in the usage of
minimisation, which has previously been implemented
relatively rarely. Published trials increasingly cite the use
of minimisation for patient allocation. For example, Falk
et al [4] minimized patients to receive immediate or
delayed radiotherapy with groups balanced according to
clinician, histology, presence of metastases and WHO performance
status. Pal et al [5] used minimisation to ensure
even distribution within age groups (2–12 or 13–18
years) and whether or not there was cerebral impairment
when conducting a trial of phenobarbital versus phenytoin
for seizure control amongst epileptic children in rural
India. Minimisation can similarly be used for allocation
within cluster randomised controlled trials when confounding
factors are applicable at the cluster level. For
example, Hilton et al [6] performed a cluster randomised
trial of intervention to lessen individuals' cardiovascular
risk with general practices allocated to intervention or
control using minimisation for Jarman score, ratio of
patient to practice nurse hours per week and fundholding
status.
The benefits of minimisation have been debated recently
[7,8] and a recent review of the usage of minimisation recommended
'its wider adoption in the conduct of randomized
controlled trials' [9].
The technique has not been without its critics [10] as well
as advocates, but it is acknowledged to be relatively simple
to implement and perform comparably to more complex
models where prognostic factors are non-numeric in
basis [11]. A common criticism is that minimisation concentrates
only on marginal distributions of prognostic factors
and may not ensure that the interactions are similar
between groups. For example, although there may be similar
numbers of males, females, disease state positive and
negative in the treatment groups post allocation, all of the
positive males may receive one treatment and all of the
positive females the other. If there is an interaction
between disease state and gender on outcome, then this
difference between the treatment arms may be problematic.
However, the likelihood of imbalance is easily countered
via a 4-category minimisation variable: male/
positive, male/negative, female/positive, female/negative.
The usefulness of minimisation as an allocation procedure
within randomised controlled trials is therefore
established and will continue to be recognised and utilised.
However, it has been commonplace for published
studies that have used minimisation to give little or no
information as to how the process has been implemented.
Often they cite the minimisation variables but do not state
what metric has been used to determine the preferred allocation
group, whether and what randomisation weightings
have been used for the allocations, whether and how
the factors have been weighted, whether interactions have
been accounted for or, where applicable, how cut-points
for continuous prognostic factors were selected. The
researcher who wishes to embark on a trial using minimisation
as the means of patient allocation often has many
questions to ask. Several parameters need to be selected
for each trial to which minimisation is to be applied.
These parameters and, from our experience within the statistical
consultancy, the most common associated questions
related to the choice of each, are given below:
1. Number of factors
• How many factors can be balanced simultaneously?
• How does the balance for an individual factor change as
more factors are incorporated?
• In particular, what is the effect on other factors of adding
a single, many-categoried factor such as centre?
2. Number of categories for each factor
• How does choice of number of categories (for continuous
prognostic factors) affect the allocation process?
3. Whether and how to weight the factors
• How should the factors be weighted?
4. The randomisation weighting to use
• How much should the randomisation be weighted in
favour of the preferred group?
They also want to know
• With a chosen randomisation weighting and given
number of minimisation factors, how big a discrepancy
can be expected for a specified sample size?
and
• How does inclusion of interactions between prognostic
factors change all this?
There is minimal information available in the published
literature to inform researchers when addressing the
above questions.
We have developed a simple computer package to perform
minimisation allocations subject to selected values
of these 4 input parameters. We have also incorporated a
simulation element that allows the researcher to investigate
the size of discrepancies in allocation of prognostic
factors between treatment groups subject to variation in
the input parameters.
We here present the results of some simulations for a
hypothetical proposed trial and show how this process
can assist the researcher in deciding on the parameter values
to be used in their trial. Subject to our chosen criteria
for model comparison, we examine the extent to which
varying the minimisation parameters may influence the
equalisation of prognostic factors between treatment
groups.
Methods
For each new patient to be allocated, the process of minimisation
considers the imbalance in selected prognostic
factors and weights the randomisation of the next patient,
according to his or her characteristics, in favour of the
treatment that will make the treatment groups most similar
with respect to the prognostic factors. To formalize this
process, assume a trial where patients are allocated to one
of two treatments, T1 and T2. Suppose there are M prognostic
factors and cj is the number of categories for the jth
prognostic factor (j = 1,...,M). Let anj be the value that the
nth patient takes for the jth prognostic factor (anj∈
{1,2,...,cj}) and let dj be a measure of the difference
between the numbers of patients allocated to each of the
two treatments who are in category anj after allocation of
the (n-1)st patient. Assume dj positive if more patients in
category anj are currently receiving T2, negative if more are
receiving T1 and zero if both treatments currently contain
equal numbers of patients at this level for the jth confounder.
Therefore Dn-1 = {d1, d2, ..., dM} is the vector of
differences between the treatment groups with respect to
the M prognostic factors at the levels seen in the nth
patient prior to allocation of that patient. Using minimisation,
according to the size and direction of Dn-1, randomisation
of the nth patient will be weighted towards the
treatment group that will make Dn numerically smaller
according to some chosen metric ie. the differences
between the treatment groups will be minimised with
respect to the prognostic factors.
For example, consider a study where there are M = 4 minimisation
criteria: gender, age (under/over 18), residency
status of patient (in/out) and severity of disease (mild/
moderate/severe). Suppose that 34 patients have been
recruited and allocated to one of 2 treatment arms (17 per
arm) and that they are distributed amongst the minimisation
criteria categories as follows:
Suppose that the 35th (n = 35) patient to be allocated (n =
35) is an adult male in-patient with mild disease. Prior to
his allocation the numbers of patients falling into these
categories is 8+3+7+4 = 22 in treatment arm T1 and
9+5+7+3 = 24 in treatment arm T2. Hence D34 = {8-9, 3-
5, 7-7, 4-3} = {-1, -2, 0, 1} is the vector of differences
between the treatment groups with respect to the 4 prognostic
factors at the levels seen in the 35th patient prior to
allocation of that patient. Since there are fewer similar
patients in T1, randomisation of the 35th patient should
be weighted towards this group.
Choice of metric to minimise Dn
The simplest algorithm for allocation of the nth patient is
to weight the randomisation in favour of T1 if ,
in favour of T2 if and use simple randomisation
(p = 1/2, where p is the probability with which the patient
is allocated to the preferred treatment) if . This
dj
j
M
>
= Σ
0
1
dj
j
M
>
= Σ
0
1
dj
j
M
>
= Σ
0
1
Table 1
Treatment arm:
T1 T2
Gender:
Male 8 9
Female 9 8
Age:
Under 18 14 12
Over 18 3 5
Residency status:
In patient 7 7
Out patient 10 10
Severity of disease:
Mild 4 3
Moderate 12 11
Severe 1 3
prognostic factors.
The prognostic factors can be given different weightings
(wj) according to their relative importance and
used to determine the allocation. There are a variety of
ways that the wj may be chosen. One potential system that
seems reasonable is to weight according to the number of
categories. For example, if 100 patients are allocated to
two treatment groups then we would expect 25 within
each category of a binary variable for each treatment
group, and 10 within each category of a 5-category variable
for each treatment (assuming, without loss of generality,
equal probability of the categories occurring within
each variable). A maximum difference of the same absolute
magnitude between the two treatment allocations for
any of the variable categories would probably be more
clinically relevant for the 5-category than for the binary
variable:
The absolute (unweighted) differences are identical (= 10)
but for the binary variable T2 contains 50% more patients
within the first category, for the 5-category variable there
are 200% more relative to T1. The deviations from
expected are 20% (5/25) and 50% (5/10) respectively.
Weighting the absolute differences (= 10) by the number
of categories gives weighted differences of 20 (10 × 2) and
50 (= 10 × 5) for the 2 and 5 category variables respectively.
The extent to which randomisation is more likely to
favour one treatment over the other depends on the size
of the randomisation weighting used. With p = 1/2 (simple
randomisation) there is no preference for either group.
When p = 1, the patient automatically receives the preferred
treatment, there is no random element and allocation
is said to be deterministic i.e. the researcher could
predict the group allocation of the next patient if they
knew the previous allocations. Selecting a value 1/2 <p <
1 will bias allocation in favour of the preferred treatment
whilst retaining an element of randomness so that patient
allocation cannot be predicted. More extreme values of p
(greater bias) will lead to better balancing of prognostic
factors between treatment groups.
There must be a trade-off between introducing sufficient
randomisation weighting (p large enough) and not allowing
allocation of the next patient to be predicted (p not
close to 1).
Quantification of balance
The maximum absolute difference between the patients
allocated to each of the categories within a given factor
summarises how well that factor has been balanced by the
minimisation process and is used as a summary measure
of balance for that factor. In our simulations we summarise
across factors with the same number of categories. For
example, if we minimize according to 3 binary variables
and one 15-category factor then there will be 2 summary
measures of balance achieved for each simulated dataset:
the maximum absolute differences allocated to (1) any of
the binary variables i.e. the 6 categories which constitute
these 3 factors and (2) any category within the 15 category
factor.
As previously noted [11] it is the behaviour of an individual
design that is of interest to the researcher rather than
the average over many applications. Of interest is the
value below which discrepancies are likely to occur for the
majority of applications of minimisation with given criteria.
An individual investigator is more likely to want to
know the maximum discrepancy that s/he can reasonably
expect with chosen allocation parameters rather than
what the average will be for everyone using those parameters.
For these reasons we prefer the 95th centile of the
simulated distributions as more realistic and relevant
measures than the means or medians which have previously
been used to describe the success of a selected allocation
process. The error in estimating the 95th centile is
about 1 1/2 times the error when estimating the mean
[12] but this difference becomes unimportant if a large
number of simulations are taken.
The 95th centiles of the distributions of simulated values
are used to compare allocation schemes with varying
input parameters (sample size, randomisation weighting,
number and type of variables, weighting of variables).
Simulation options
It was estimated that 200 simulations would allow quantification
of the 95th centile of the distribution to within ±
0.2 standard deviations of that distribution with 95% confidence.
Increasing the number of simulations to 2500 or
5000 would increase this precision substantially to ± 0.06
and 0.04 respectively. A further doubling of the number of
simulations (to 10000) would only further increase precision
by less than 0.01 standard deviations. Hence it was
wjdj
j
M
= Σ
1
Table 2
T1 T2 Absolute Difference T1 T2 Absolute Difference
20 30 10 5 15 10
25 25 0 10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
decided that 5000 simulations would be adequate for a
comparison of minimisation criteria. For each scenario
5000 simulations were performed using a Fortran program
incorporating NAG subroutines for random selection
of patient characteristics.
Measure of balance
The 95th centiles of the distributions of maximum absolute
differences for each factor type were recorded and
classified according to the number of potential categories
within which each individual could fall. These differences
are expressed as the proportionate difference from that
expected by multiplying by the number of categories for
that factor and dividing by the total sample size.
Randomisation weighting
All simulations were repeated for p set at 1/2 (simple randomisation)
and also for p taken to be 0.67, 0.75, 0.8,
0.83, 0.88, 0.91, 0.95, 0.97, 0.99 and 0.999, values which
equate respectively to allocation to the preferred treatment
being 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 20, 30, 100 and 1000 times as
likely as to the alternative.
Weighting of variables
Simulations were performed with prognostic factors both
unweighted (wj = 1; j = 1,...,M) and with weights equal to
the number of categories of the prognostic factor.
To address the types of questions posed by potential
researchers we here simulate several different scenarios:
Firstly, we investigate the effect on balance of increasing
the number of factors. Models with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20 and
30 binary prognostic factors are compared. The sample
size for each simulation was set at 500. Since all factors are
binary, weighting will not change the results and these
models are only presented unweighted.
Secondly, we chose a study with three binary, one 3-category
and one 4-category (total 5) prognostic factors to
simulate. This scenario was chosen as being typical of the
problems we were encountering in the local consultancy
and not dissimilar to published studies citing minimisation
criteria which commonly have several binary criteria
and one or more multiple category confounders [4,6]. We
investigated the extent to which balance was a function of
sample size by simulating the scenario with each simulation
based on samples of 40 and of 500 patients. For sample
size of 500, we also considered the balance achieved
when all 2-way interactions were used as the minimisation
criteria (total of 10 interactions between the 5 confounders).
Finally, we generated simulations of
allocations for a sample size of 500 based on 6 minimisation
factors: the original 5 plus an additional 15- category
confounder.
Practicalities of application
The practicalities of application require some degree of
automation. We have developed a package for clinical
usage (SiMin) which both utilises simulations to facilitate
the process of specification selection and provides a userfriendly
front-end for the subsequent allocations within
trial. The Fortran programs which generate the simulations
are embedded in this package. The purpose of this
paper is to illustrate the types of patterns that can easily be
determined via simulation and to show how this might
assist the researcher, leading to more informed parameter
selection and enhanced reporting of the decision process.
Results
All results were equivalent for randomisation weights of
100 and 1000. Hence, only the results for 100 are shown
in the figures.
Increasing the number of factors
Figure 1 shows the results of the simulations as the
number of binary factors is set at 1, 5, 20 and 30. The output
for 2, 3, 4 and 10 binary factors are not shown on the
figure. As expected, the proportionate change from
expected falls as the randomisation weighting is
increased. The largest fall occurs after the introduction of
any randomisation weighting i.e. between values of 1
(simple randomisation) and 2. As the randomisation
weighting is increased to 5 in favour of the preferred treatment
there are further declines and less so between 5 and
30. After 30 the proportionate change appears to have
reached an asymptote. The differences in proportionate
changes with increasing number of factors are approximately
constant with changing randomisation weights.
Weighting the variables
Figure 2 shows the 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate
changes for the 5 prognostic factor (3 binary, 1
3-category and 1 4-category) scenario with a sample size
of 500. The dotted lines show the results when the prognostic
factors are weighted according to the number of categories.
Again, any degree of randomisation weighting is associated
with the largest fall in change from expected. Proportionate
differences increase with the number of categories.
Weighting of the prognostic factors has the effect of
increasing the discrepancies for the binary factors but
reducing them for the factors with more categories.
Changing the sample size
Figure 3 shows the 95th centiles of the distributions when
a sample of only 40 patients is allocated using 5 minimisation
factors (3 binary, 1 3-category and 1 4-category).
The proportionate differences are much larger with the
smaller sample size (c.f. figure 2).
Interactions
Figure 4 shows 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate
changes when minimisation is used to allocate
500 patients to 2 groups with the aim of obtaining even
distribution of all 2-way interactions of 5 confounders (3
binary, 1 3-category and 1 4-category). If the distributions
sof the interactions are similar, then the marginal distributions
of the factors will be also.
The differences are increased from the non-interaction
model (Figure 2) approximately 2-fold for the lower randomisation
weights (and when simple randomisation is
used) up to approximately 5-fold for large randomisation
weighting. Since the proportionate changes are smaller for
larger randomisation weights, the absolute difference in
the proportionate changes falls with increasing randomisation
weights. It should be noted, however, that the interaction
factors have more categories and the discrepancies
are about the same in terms of the numbers of individuals
allocated.
The effect of weighting of the prognostic factors is similar
to previous models. When factors are weighted according
to the number of categories this has the effect of reducing
the proportionate discrepancies for the factors with more
categories (3 × 4 and 2 × 4 interactions) whilst having the
opposite effect for the factors with fewer categories (2 × 2
and 2 × 3 interactions).
IFnicgrueraesi n1g the number of binary factors
Increasing the number of binary factors. 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate changes from expected for
randomisation weights from 1 to 100 obtained from 5000 simulations and a simulated sample size of 500. The number of minimisation
variables is increased from 1 (black line) to 5 (dark green), 20 (lime green) and to 30 (red).
Adding a factor with many categories
Figure 5 shows the results when samples of 500 are simulated
using 6 confounders (3 binary, 1 3-category, 1 4-category
and 1 15-category). The inclusion of the 15-category
variable has had little influence on the proportionate
changes for the other factors in the unweighted model
(Figure 2). When the factors are weighted the proportionate
changes for the 4-category factor are increased in the
expanded model as opposed to having decreased previously.
Weighting of the prognostic factors has most effect
on the extent to which the 15-category factor has a similar
distribution for the 2 treatment groups.
Discussion
In this paper we have simulated some common treatment
trial scenarios and compared the results in terms of the
distribution of discrepancies between treatment groups.
Whilst only a selection of potential scenarios can be
shown, we have illustrated how prior investigation helps
quantify the sensitivity of minimisation to the choice of
input parameters (randomisation weights, weighting of
prognostic factors, number and type of factors). Assuming
that numerically small differences between the groups are
of little practical clinical importance, then we can make
several useful statements regarding the selected scenarios:
SFaigmuprlee s2ize 500, 5 prognostic factors (3 binary, 1 3-category, 1 4-category)
Sample size 500, 5 prognostic factors (3 binary, 1 3-category, 1 4-category). 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate
changes from expected for randomisation weights from 1 to 100 obtained from 5000 simulations. Dotted lines
show results when prognostic factors are weighted according to the number of categories. Results for binary factors shown in
black, 3-category in blue and 4-category in purple.
• The number of factors to be taken into account can be
increased quite substantially without severely affecting
the overall balance.
• Weighting of the factors had most effect on the factors
with many categories and was not highly detrimental to
the factors with fewer categories (in keeping with the findings
of Weir and Lees [13]).
• Including interaction terms in the minimisation did not
greatly increase the overall discrepancies.
• Even weighting the randomisation by a small amount in
favour of the preferred treatment had a large effect on the
equality of the distribution of prognostic factors between
treatments.
• Increasing the randomisation weights above 5 had little
effect on the extent to which the treatment groups were
similar.
Note that for a different number or type of minimisation
factors the above statements may not hold. They are not
meant to be universally true. These are statements about
one particular hypothesised scenario to show how infor-
SFaigmuprlee s3ize 40, 5 prognostic factors (3 binary, 1 3-category, 1 4-category)
Sample size 40, 5 prognostic factors (3 binary, 1 3-category, 1 4-category). 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate
changes from expected for randomisation weights from 1 to 100 obtained from 5000 simulations. Dotted lines
show results when prognostic factors are weighted according to the number of categories. Results for binary factors shown in
black, 3-category in blue and 4-category in purple.
mation relating to that scenario can be easily generated via
simulations.
We believe that prior simulation according to expected
sample size will be useful for clinicians embarking on a
randomised controlled trial for which prognostic factors
exist and should be equalised between treatment groups.
Simulation will help quantify the effect of different input
parameters on the expected discrepancies. It may assist in
the choice of randomisation weighting utilised and the
trade-off between minimizing for more criteria and/or
increasing the categories of minimisation where prognostic
factors are continuous. However, it should be noted
that the decision of which variables to include in the minimisation
process should be informed primarily by the
clinical importance of variables and their impact on outcome.
Vaughan Reed and Wickham [14] give further discussion
to the choice of cut-points for continuous
prognostic factors when performing minimisation. All
minimisation variables should be adjusted for in the final
analyses [1,9] and it is therefore important that only necessary
variables are included to avoid over-parameterisation
of the models. There is a trade-off between
incorporating too many variables/unnecessarily increasing
the number of categories used and allowing imbalance
in important prognostic factors. The results of the
MFiignuimreiz i4ng the difference of the interactions
Minimizing the difference of the interactions. 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate changes from expected
for randomisation weights from 1 to 100 obtained from 5000 simulations. All 10 2-way interactions from 5 prognostic factors
(3 binary, 1 3-category, 1 4-category) used as minimisation criteria. Dotted lines show results when prognostic factors are
weighted according to the number of categories. Results for the 3 2 × 2 interaction terms shown in black, for the 3 2 × 3 interactions
in dark green, the 3 2 × 4 in lime green and the 1 3 × 4 interaction in red.
simulation exercises can assist in the process but cannot
be used as the sole, or even main, decision criteria for
inclusion of a particular variable.
In theory, the process of minimisation is relatively simple
to undertake [15] but in practice we feel that clinicians do
not find it easy to keep running totals and perform
weighted randomisations. Automation of the process (in
addition to telephone allocation where available) reduces
the propensity for conscious or unconscious interference
with the allocation procedure. Given the importance of
allocation concealment, this is an additional benefit of
employing minimisation. Furthermore, simulated models
are not necessarily straightforward to generate. Consequently,
we have developed a software package (SiMin)
for clinical usage which enables not only easy minimisation
but also generates simulations that may be useful
prior to the commencement of the study to help in determining
which input parameters to use. It is important that
the person performing the allocations is independent of
the trial team. Having a quick and simple to use automated
system makes it easier to enrol suitable individuals
for this task.
At study commencement it should be possible to justify
the number and type of minimisation variables, their
FAidgduinrge a5 15-category factor
Adding a 15-category factor. 95th centiles of the distributions of proportionate change from expected for randomisation
weights from 1 to 100 obtained from 5000 simulations. Dotted lines show results when prognostic factors are weighted
according to the number of categories. Results for binary factors shown in black, 3-category in blue, 4-category in purple and
15-category in green.
weighting and the choice of randomisation weighting.
Simulation enables estimation of the discrepancies anticipated
and their probability. For example, suppose a treatment
trial is estimated to require 40 patients to be
allocated to the new or standard treatments to obtain a
reasonable power to detect differences in outcome of clinical
importance. Potential confounders are sex (male/
female), age (under/over 18), whether the individual is an
in- or out-patient, severity of disease (mild/moderate/
severe) and ethnicity (4 categories). All categories of all
minimisation variables are expected to be equally likely.
(This latter criterion may not realistic but the density functions
can be easily adjusted within the simulations.) If a
randomisation weight of 2 (p = 0.67) is used then the proportionate
change from expected of patients allocated to
new and standard treatment is expected to be less than or
equal to 0.35 for sex, age group and patient status (in- or
out- patient), less than or equal to 0.45 for disease severity
and less than or equal to 0.6 for ethnicity for 95% of random
patient samples (figure 3). These are equivalent to
absolute difference of 7, 6 and 6 patients respectively. A
statement such as this could be incorporated into the protocol
in a similar way to having a power calculation. i.e.
the protocol could state, "Sex, age (under/over 18), residency
status of patient (in/out), severity of disease (mild/
moderate/severe) and ethnicity (4 categories) were
included as factors in the minimisation. Factors were
unweighted and a randomisation weighting of 2 was used
for the allocations. It was estimated that the discrepancy
between patients allocated to the 2 treatment groups
would not exceed 7, 6 or 6 for the binary variables, disease
state and ethnicity respectively with probability 0.95."
Frequently, very little information is given on randomisation
weights, weighting of variables or even the categories
used in description of minimisation procedures.
Whilst it should be possible to justify the minimisation
criteria, the precise details of the allocation process should
not be widely divulged until after the trial has completed.
The less information that is accessible, the less chance
there is of recruitment being biased by knowledge of the
likely allocation of future patients. We recommend that
the details of and justification for the allocation process
being employed are documented and given in the final
trial reports. However, we also recommend that these
details are not revealed to the research team during the
trial apart from where this is essential.
The International Conference on Harmonisation E9
guidelines [16] discuss the importance of minimising bias
in the design of trials, with 'bias' defined as "the systematic
tendency of any factors associated with the design,
conduct, analysis and interpretation of the results of clinical
trials to make the estimate of a treatment effect deviate
from its true value." These guidelines also state that
"Good design should generally aim to achieve the same
distribution of subjects to treatments within each centre
and good management should maintain this design
objective." The use of dynamic allocation of patients to
treatments is one way to achieve these aims. In this paper
we have investigated some of the issues that arise in the
practical application of one allocation technique the use
of which has risen sharply in recent years.
We have performed simulations using the most common
scenario of 2 treatment groups. A similar process could be
done where there are more treatment groups and this
option has been incorporated into our software.
We have simulated datasets under different minimisation
criteria to show how outcomes may vary as the input
parameters are changed and suggest that this sort of
approach should become standard practice. Previously it
has been noted that simulations can be usefully employed
prior to study commencement to determine the best allocation
method to use [9,11,13]. These studies have used
relatively complex models to compare not only minimisation
parameters but also alternative approaches such as
stratification. In some cases they have incorporated existing
data [13]. Our results are in keeping with the findings
of these more detailed studies. What we have aimed to
show in this paper is how a relatively simple automatic
algorithm, made available in package form, can be used to
assist clinicians when they have decided to utilise minimisation
and need to determine the optimal parameters. The
package simplifies the practicalities of the process and
hence may make this the preferred allocation method
even when there are few prognostic factors to be taken
into account and stratification is also a feasible option. It
is important that researchers justify the choices they make
with regards to the procedure for allocating patients. The
arguments for this are not dissimilar to the argument for
giving a power calculation or describing other details of
the study protocol.
Conclusion
The use of minimisation as a means of patient allocation
is increasing. Decisions need to be made regarding the
precise mode of implementation. Choice of input parameters
may influence the extent to which the process is successful
in ensuring equality of prognostic factors between
treatment groups. We show how a simple automated
package that we have developed locally can be used to
allow researchers to investigate the effects of varying the
input parameters prior to study commencement. The
advent of the wide availability of computing technology
makes minimisation a more realistic choice for many
researchers. It is important that they utilise the technique
most effectively. We have shown how simulations can be
used prior to study commencement to ensure that the
minimisation has a reasonable chance of providing comparable
treatment groups.