SUMMARY
Cross-sectional covariate-related reference ranges are widely used in clinical medicine to put individual
observations in the context of population values. Usually, such reference ranges are created from data
sets of independent observations. If multiple measurements per individual are available, then ignoring the
within-person correlation between repeats will lead to overestimation of centile precision. Furthermore, if
abnormal measurements have triggered more frequent assessment, the data set will be biased thus producing
biased centiles. Where multiple measures per individual exist, the methods commonly used are either
randomly or systematically to select one observation per individual or to model individual trajectories and
combine these. The first of these approaches may result in discarding a large proportion of the available
data and may itself cause bias and the latter requires the form of the changes within individuals to be
characterized. We have developed an approach to the modeling of the median, spread, and skew across
individuals using maximum likelihood, which can incorporate correlations between dependent observations.
Heavily biased data sets are simulated to illustrate how the methodology can eliminate the biases
inherent in the data collection process and produce valid centiles plus estimates of the within-person correlations.
The “select one per individual” approach is shown to be liable to bias and to produce less precise
centiles.We recommend that the maximum likelihood method incorporating correlations be used with existing
data sets. Furthermore, this is a potentially more efficient approach to be considered when planning
the future collection of data solely for the purposes of creating cross-sectional covariate-related reference
ranges.
Keywords: Age-related reference ranges; Correlated measurements; Dependence; Serial measures; Unbiased;
z-scores.
1. INTRODUCTION
Covariate-adjusted reference ranges may be used to assess individuals at a single point in time (crosssectional)
or to monitor changes within individuals over time (velocity or conditional). Most commonly,
the covariate used is age. If an individual presents for diagnosis/assessment and repeat measurements are
available, then it will generally be advisable to utilize all of these. However, there are many occasions
on which only a single measurement is available and this needs to be evaluated against population values
using a covariate-adjusted cross-sectional reference range.
The methodologies for constructing population-based covariate-adjusted cross-sectional reference centiles
are now well established and were recently reviewed by the World Health Organization (Borghi and
others, 2006, for the World Health Organization [WHO] Multicentre Growth Reference Study Group).
These methodologies commonly assume that the measurements used for construction are independent. If
the data set contains serial measurements from individuals, then these will be correlated within person and
hence the independence assumption is not satisfied. One approach has been to circumvent the problem
by systematically or randomly selecting one observation per individual to create a data set of independent
measurements (e.g. Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others, 1999; Kurmanavicius, Wright,
Royston, Zimmermann and others, 1999; Wade and Ades, 1994). However, this is wasteful of the data
and may lead to bias.
This paper is concerned specifically with the construction of cross-sectional reference ranges using
serial measurements from individuals. The need for any marginal analyses to include assumptions about
the form of the correlation has been well documented within other applications (Diggle and others, 2002).
The Laird–Ware model (1982) gives a general framework for modeling which allows for variable spacing
of observations and varying structures between individuals. The estimation of parameters for this model
form has received much coverage (Davidian and Giltinan, 1995; Hand and Crowder, 1996; Vonesh and
Chinchilli, 1997; Lindsey, 1999; Diggle and others, 2002). However, very little of the available literature
applies specifically to the reference range problem. Within the majority of texts, characterization of the
average pattern is of primary importance followed by estimation of the covariance/correlation structure
between repeats within individuals where these exist. When reference ranges are to be constructed, the
estimation of any skewness and the spread of values at each covariate are at least as important as quantification
of the median. This shift of emphasis is necessary as it is usually the extreme centiles that are
of most clinical use. By contrast, estimation of the covariance/correlation structure is generally of little or
no direct interest in this scenario.
The WHO review recommended the use of methodologies that model the covariate-related changes
in distributional features and then combine these to obtain centiles. Commonly, the underlying distribution
is assumed to be some transformation of the normal distribution and the kurtosis, skew, spread,
and median are modeled. The form of the models used for the distributional features and the mode of
identifying the best fit parameters vary according to the specific method chosen (Cole, 1988, Cole and
Green, 1992; Wright and Royston, 1997). Previously, we used this methodology within a maximum likelihood
framework with exponential models to create age-related centiles for CD4 counts (Wade and Ades,
1994), randomly selecting one measurement per child. We subsequently extended the approach by incorporating
suitable correlation structure into the likelihood and thus additionally modeled the correlation
between repeats from the same individual as smooth functions of age and time (Wade and Ades, 1998),
hence utilizing the entire data set. This extension may be viewed as a generalization of models developed
to identify trends in longitudinal data with explicit modeling of the serial correlation (Diggle, 1988).
Despite a strong correlation structure, incorporation did not substantially alter the fitted centiles. This
finding was not unexpected because measurements were made at ages defined within a strict protocol,
and hence, frequency of measuring was independent of previous measurements. A similar approach that
has been used is systematically, as opposed to randomly, to select one measurement per individual. For
example, Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others (1999) and Kurmanavicius, Wright,
Royston, Zimmermann and others (1999) used only the first of serial measurements made during pregnancy
to create cross-sectional centiles for fetal biometry.
While it is generally appreciated that incorporation of dependent observations without adjustment for
correlations will lead to overestimation of centile precision, the propensity for bias invalidating the centiles
has received little discussion. When the number and/or timing of observations are related to outcome,
for example, when an abnormal measurement is likely to trigger more frequent assessment for clinical
purposes, then the incorporation of correlations may have a large impact on the centiles by reducing
or removing the bias inherent in the collection process. The problem is one of informative observation
times, whereby future measurement frequency is related to the values of existing measurements for that
individual (Lin and others, 2004).
The WHO review (Borghi and others, 2006) identified the following 2 approaches that incorporated
correlated measurements into the construction of cross-sectional reference ranges. Laird and Ware (1982)
proposed 2-stage random-effects models, while Goldstein (1986) proposed a more general framework of
multilevel models which could be parameterized to allow for complex covariance structures and multiple
explanatory variables. Marginal distributions obtained from these models would identify cross-sectional
patterns of change (Pan and Goldstein, 1997). While these models are flexible and present a solution to
the specific problem posed here, they require explicit characterization of a common underlying form for
expected trajectories within individuals. Goldstein and others (1994) recognized that the methodology
for conditional (longitudinal) references can theoretically yield cross-sectional references. The second
approach cited by the WHO review was our previously described maximum likelihood method (Wade
and Ades, 1998) requiring characterization only of population changes irrespective of how individual
trajectories vary.
In this paper, we illustrate how biases may be removed and precision increased via appropriate modeling
even for heavily biased simulated data sets. We compare the precision with which centiles are
estimated when correlations are incorporated versus the alternative systematic or random “select one”
approach. The methodology is illustrated by application to serial fetal ultrasound measurements collected
at the University Hospital in Zurich (UHZ) and previously modeled using only a subset of the
data (Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others, 1999; Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston,
Zimmermann and others, 1999).
2. METHODS
2.1 Statistical methods
In previous papers, we have demonstrated the use of splines, fractional polynomials, and exponentials
within the maximum likelihood methodology. Any data collection protocol can be accommodated, as
can any amount of variation between the number and timing of measurements per individual. Formal
significance tests are easily performed between nested models and confidence intervals constructed for the
model parameters and/or the centiles (Wade and Ades, 1994, 1998). Thompson and Fatti (1997) extended
the methodology to create multivariate centile charts. In the analyses presented in this paper, we assume
that a transformation of the normal distribution is appropriate at each covariate value and we model the
changes in the skewness, spread, and median. We maximize the likelihood incorporating a correlation
structure between repeated measurements within the same individual.
We used Fortran programs incorporating numerical algorithms group subroutines, which are available
within the supplementary material, available at Biostatistics online. An alternative would be to use generalized
additive models for location, scale, and shape (GAMLSS; Rigby and Stasinopoulis, 2005). The
gamlss command in R can be used to fit centiles with incorporation of random effects for individuals to
account for serial correlation.
2.2 Simulations
Full details and results from the simulations are given in the supplementary material, available at Biostatistics
online. The features and findings were as follows.
Underlying models were assumed so that median and spread were both increasing with gestational age,
as this would be typical in most applications. Simulations were based around a scenario often encountered
during pregnancy where measurements are made between 15 and 40 weeks and abnormally low values
trigger additional repeated measurements. Repeated measurements within an individual were generated
with an exponentially decaying correlation function.
The extent of bias in the data sets was dependent on how the frequency of repeat measurements was
determined. Fitted centiles based on an assumption of independence were heavily biased. The extent of
the correlations between repeats was typically underestimated within the correlation models, although the
centiles obtained were not biased. Both precision and accuracy were improved for the correlation model
compared to that assuming independence.
With “select one”, the precision of the centile estimates was reduced and the centile estimates were
biased. This latter finding shows that selecting a subset of independent measurements does not necessarily
yield unbiased centiles. At later gestations, there were more measurements from those fetuses previously
with abnormally low values and hence there was more chance of selecting biased assessments in this
gestational age range.
3. APPLICATION TO ULTRASOUND DATA SET
3.1 The data set
Ultrasound measurements were taken from clinic records of pregnant women examined at the UHZ, where
routine examinations were performed at 11–13, 18–21, and 28–32 weeks of gestation. High-risk pregnancies
were examined at shorter intervals, every 2 or 3 weeks until delivery. Referrals at later gestations from
other ultrasound centers were also included. A relatively common reason for such referral would be suspected
intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) due to placental insufficiency which manifests after 25–28
weeks of gestation with reduced growth of the fetal abdomen. Such women then undergo repeat tests until
a definitive diagnosis is made. Small values of abdominal circumference (AC) indicate potential IUGR,
whereas biparietal diameter (BPD), a measure of skull size, is not expected to be affected by IUGR. The
only measurements excluded from the data set were for fetuses found to have a congenital abnormality.
The original analysis used the first fetal measurements made between 12 and 42 weeks from 6557
pregnant women (6557 BPDs and 5807 ACs). Fractional polynomials were used to model age-related
changes in the mean and standard deviation, and Shapiro–Francia W test was used to check the normality
of the z-scores. For these 2 fetal measurements, a linear cubic in age for the mean and linear model for the
standard deviation were found to be suitable (Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others, 1999;
Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Zimmermann and others, 1999).
The current data set, which has expanded since its use in 1999, consists of information from 12 480
women measured between 1 and 28 times. A total of 48 005 BPDs and 45 352 ACs are included. Hence,
any select one approach would utilize only about 25% of the available measurements. Since the purpose
was to illustrate the effects of this modeling, we used the same model forms as Kurmanavicius and others
had previously (linear-cubic model for the mean, linear model for the standard deviation, and no skew)
and estimated only their parameters. We allowed the correlation between repeats from the same individual
to fall as the time between those repeats increased and characterized this as a 2-parameter exponential
model (ρ1e−ρ2diff). Hence, we estimated 5 parameters for the independence and select one models
(3 for the mean and 2 for the standard deviation) and an additional 2 (for the correlation structure) for
the correlation incorporated models. We compare the fitted centiles with those previously presented by
Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others (1999) and Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston,
Zimmermann and others (1999).
3.2 Fitted models
Figures 1(a) and (b) show the 5th, 50th, and 95th centiles from the independence models, the exponentially
correlated models, and those previously presented by Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and
others (1999) and Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Zimmermann and others (1999). For both AC and
BPD, taking into account the correlations reduces the centile range at earlier gestations. This pattern
is compatible with a greater frequency of measurement of fetuses with extreme values. The centiles fitted
by Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others (1999) and Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston,
Zimmermann and others (1999) lie between the correlation and independence models at early gestations
but become increasingly like the independence centiles at later ages.
The effect of incorporating correlations on the centiles at later gestations differs between AC and
BPD. The increased AC 5th centile beyond 30 weeks of gestation may be explained by the inclusion of
late referrals to UHZ for suspected IUGR. By contrast, BPD is a skull measurement, large values of which
may be of greater concern near to term (40 weeks of gestation). The pattern of differences shown in Figure
1(b) suggests that the fetuses with larger BPD were more likely to be measured more frequently in the last
5 weeks of pregnancy. Incorporation of correlations reduces the effect of these larger measurements, and
the centiles based on the correlation model are lower.
Figures 1(a) and (b) show how incorporation of correlations can remove the selection bias inherent
in clinical data sets. The patterns observed were not anticipated but with hindsight have clinically valid
Fig. 1. Estimated 5th, 50th, and 95th centiles. The solid lines show the estimated centiles when all measures are
assumed independent and the thick dashed lines when correlations between repeats are incorporated. The lighter
dashed lines show the fitted centiles as presented by Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others (1999) and
Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Zimmermann and others (1999). (a) AC obtained using 45 352 ultrasound measurements
from 12 480 pregnancies. (b) BPD obtained using 48 005 ultrasound measurements from 12 226 pregnancies.
explanations. The results show that the adjustments for correlation will not be uniform in either direction
or quantity even for seemingly highly related measurements, that is, different assessments of growth
from the same ultrasounds in the same group of women. It is perhaps surprising that the centiles based
on the first measurement from each fetus (Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others, 1999;
Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Zimmermann and others, 1999) were more akin to those obtained from
the data set of all measurements. However, this is compatible with the finding of the simulation study.
Selecting an independent subset does not necessarily remove bias as late referrals to UHZ are probably
atypical.
4. DISCUSSION
Our simulations and application demonstrate that incorporation of a correlation structure within the fitting
algorithm is to be preferred to the select one approach. Although select one is computationally simpler, our
analysis shows that the precision and accuracy of the centiles may be severely affected. The simulations
were developed to represent typical clinical scenarios. The irremovable bias obtained was not expected,
although easily explained with hindsight. It is important to note that such biases may occur in any data set
and will yield biased centiles if select one is used.
Simulations are necessarily limited by choice of the parameters and assumptions incorporated. In
particular, we assumed very similar correlation structures within the data generation and fitting phases.We
do know that if the correlation structure is severely misspecified, then this will lead to invalid estimation.
The comparison with the independence model of zero correlation between repeats within individuals is an
extreme case and clearly illustrates this point. There must therefore be some degree of misspecification
that can lead to invalidation of the centiles. For all cases where we modeled the correlation structure, we
assumed exponential decline with increasing time, a reasonable assumption for clinical applications. The
extent of any decline was estimated, and estimates were often biased. However, the model did allow for
any extent of decline (including zero), and the simulations illustrate that biased parameter estimates do
not necessarily lead to biased centile estimates. When constructing cross-sectional reference ranges from
correlated data, estimation of the correlation structure is not of direct interest, but rather is a means toward
the important end of obtaining unbiased estimates of centiles.
The data set we describe consists of longitudinal measurements with informative observation times.
Techniques that specifically model the timing mechanism could be employed and would give additional
information. However, this would necessitate the specification of the conditional distribution of an observation
given the history of the process and the centile estimates may not be robust to misspecification
(Lin and others, 2004). For the purposes of creating cross-sectional covariate-related reference ranges, the
biases in the measurement process that we wish to eliminate are a function of the clinical scenario. Our
simulations show that the method we present is capable of producing unbiased centiles from messy data
sets of the form likely to be found in clinical practice. The extent and direction of centile adjustment when
correlations are incorporated may yield information about the nature of biases inherent in the data set.
Despite the numerous advantages of incorporating some form of correlation, the technique has not
been widely used, perhaps because of a mistaken belief that the added complexity of modeling is not
warranted. In this paper, we have shown that simpler methods applied to data with informative observation
times lead to invalid centile estimation. The process of selecting the first observation per individual,
as previously used by Kurmanavicius, Wright, Royston, Wisser and others (1999) and Kurmanavicius,
Wright, Royston, Zimmermann and others (1999), may lead to a biased solution and necessitates discarding
a large proportion of the data. The resulting reduction in precision will be a function of the percentage
of data discarded and the extent of the within-individual correlation. The reduction may not be uniform
across the age range since selecting the first measurement from each pregnancy will lead to greater loss
of precision at later gestations where there will be fewer women presenting. The UHZ received referrals
for suspected problems, based on abnormal ultrasound measurements, from other hospitals. While fetuses
subsequently found to have a congenital abnormality were excluded, biases are still likely to remain. The
simulation results show that incorporating correlation structure into the modeling has the capacity to reduce
biases such as these in estimating centiles. The extent of the bias reduction will depend on the degree
to which the correlation structure has been adequately modeled.
If data are to be collected specifically for the purposes of creating cross-sectional reference ranges,
then the most precise centiles for a given total number of observations will be obtained when these observations
are independent. However, there may be a trade-off between the recruitment cost per individual
and the cost of following individuals serially (Goldstein, 1979). If subsequent measurements for a recruited
individual are easier and/or cheaper to obtain than measurements from new recruits, then some
consideration should be given at the design stage to the most efficient way to proceed. It may be ethically
easier to justify serial collection from a smaller pool of prospective subjects, or the pool may be
limited (e.g. children born to HIV-1-infected mothers). Often, the remit is to produce both cross-sectional
and conditional or velocity references (Borghi and others, 2006). In this case, the optimal approach will
be to incorporate serial observations into the cross-sectional references using appropriate adjustment for
correlation within individuals. The precision with which centiles are estimated under differing correlation
structures, model forms, and/or sample sizes can be readily compared using simulations to identify the
most appropriate recruitment method to use.