I appreciate the authors efforts in revising their manuscript. With regard to my earlier concerns that the Abstract's Results section was unclear.... It appears that the authors have just significantly reduced their Results section to two sentences that contain no specific data. I don't believe this is what either of the Reviewers wanted. The two sentences in the revised Abstract's Results also, unfortunately, remain unclear. For example, "Helping Babies Breathe has shown a significant increase in knowledge, skill and competency post-test and three months." Respectfully, this is inaccurately and very imprecisely worded. "HBB" has not shown an increase - the health workers have. "Post-test and three months" is also quite unclear. I imagine the authors mean that there was a significant increase in knowledge and skills from immediately post-training to three months post-training. Also, how is "competency" different than knowledge and skills? I don't think "competency" is a third, separate indicator separate from knowledge and skills, therefore, it should not be included here as if it were. In the second sentence, "...competency of the health within....," I believe the authors intended to write "health WORKERS" rather than just "health." Furthermore, please don't only write that "there was marked decline over [a] 1-year period." Please provide readers here with your specific data. Regretfully, the authors' revised abstract is now much less clear and less specific than it was previously. Additionally, having just 2 sentences in the Results (compared to the MUCH longer Methods section) doesn't make sense to me. Please provide readers with your key findings in your Abstract's Results. Feel free to examine similar published HBB articles for examples of what can be useful to include in the Abstract's Results. In the Abstract, the revised Conclusion is also repetitive with the Results; they nearly restate the same thing verbatim. These sentences - or at least their topics - would be appropriate for a Conclusion IF the Results section then focuses on providing the concrete, specific data. However, currently, the Results section of the Abstract does not provide any concrete data. The English in both of these two sentences in the revised Abstract's Conclusion also need to be corrected - if the sentences are retained. I appreciate the authors adding additional literature to the Intro. In the first paragraph, I wouldn't have necessarily added the worldwide statistics ("136 million...") in between all of the sentences that are otherwise talking specifically about South Sudan. I would either start by talking globally and working towards South Sudan, or vice versa, but not going back and forth. I would also advise not writing that the number of newborns [not infants] born is expected to increase to nearly 137 million "BY 2016." Since 2016 is past, I wouldn't talk about it in future tense, even if that's the most recent data available. I don't understand the title in Figure 2: "Registry birth at intervention and Control." I think the English needs to be revised slightly. (I realize publishing a scientific article in anything but one's primary native tongue is incredibly difficult, and I commend the authors' efforts. However, I do feel this paper needs to have a native English speaker with technical writing skills carefully review it. There are several minor issues throughout the paper, figures, and tables.) The new Table 1 is very helpful. Thank you. The authors' efforts in revising the Discussion is greatly appreciated. However, the first 6 paragraphs of the revised Discussion will need heavy English editing (as will the revised Conclusion). I also appreciate the authors' efforts in improving the Conclusion. However, the revised Conclusion is now four large paragraphs in length (compared to one in the original article). This is significantly longer than most Conclusions, which are intended to simply restate the key take-home messages rather than to continue the Discussion. Please feel free to review other published HBB articles for examples of appropriate Conclusion length and content. If the authors feel the current content of their revised Conclusion is essential and not a restatement of what is in the Discussion, then much of it can be integrated into the Discussion. But a Conclusion should typically be a brief, concise summary of the main take-home messages and no new ideas should typically be presented in the Conclusion; all new ideas and any discussion of the study results should be presented in the paper's Discussion. 