This manuscript is intended to take the reader through a complete analysis of Affymetrix Gene ST arrays, based on a set of arrays downloaded from ArrayExpress. The author covers each step from quality control of the raw data all the way to making comparisons using linear models and testing and visualizing pathways or gene sets. Major comments While this manuscript is technically correct (e.g., the code does what the author claims, the explanatory text is valid), I am not sure it is as useful as it could be for its intended audience. In other words, this manuscript is intended to provide an inexperienced reader (inexperienced in either R/Bioconductor or statistics or both) with a road map they can follow to learn how to analyze microarray data. However, both the code and the statistical explanations are far too complex to be useful for such a person. As an example, the author explains in mathematical terms what the background correction and summarization steps are intended to accomplish. While this is an important step in the analysis, this could instead be explained in heuristic terms that would be far more approachable for a less statistically savvy audience, while still conveying the general idea. The section on linear modeling and design matrices are similarly impenetrable for non-statisticians. The limma User's Guide has dozens of examples of model matrices, with clear interpretations of the model coefficients. Yet as the author notes, this is probably the number one question on the Bioconductor support site. Rather than re-explaining something that most people clearly don't understand, it would be much more helpful to focus on a single model matrix, and provide a clear, heuristic explanation. The easiest to understand is the most basic orthogonal model that computes the mean of each group, followed by a contrast matrix to make comparisons of interest. The overview on linear models is well beyond the scope of this manuscript, and should be excised. The same is true for the section on testing general linear hypotheses. Ideally, an analyst using these tools would understand what they are doing from a statistical perspective, but it's difficult enough for a novice user to comprehend what the code is doing without trying to also understand the statistics. Similarly, the code is more complex than necessary. If the goal is to teach novice users about Bioconductor packages, then the code should be restricted as much as possible to those packages and base R. While ggplot2 style graphics, magrittr style function piping and dplyr two-table verbs may be useful for more advanced R users, in this context they are an added distraction. An example of overly-complex code is the filtering step. There are any number of ways to filter out genes that are arguably not expressed. The example is a very sophisticated way to perform this task, but a novice who is just learning doesn't require sophistication, they require something they can understand. Choosing a cutoff based on the distribution of probesets across each array, and then filtering all genes where fewer than 14 samples exceed this cutoff is not very sophisticated, but it is easy to understand, and would only require a few lines of code. The learning curve for R and Bioconductor is steep, and making this manuscript both simpler in terms of the code, and more focused by excluding most of the statistics and any example analyses that do not involve the microarray data would make it more approachable for inexperienced users. Minor comments In the download step, getAE() is used to download the data, but then the SDRF file is downloaded directly. This is confusing, as getAE() has already downloaded that file. Is there a particular reason for the extra step? To test for model matrices that are not full rank, it's easier to use either nonEstimable() or is.fullrank() from the limma package. Conclusion As noted above, this manuscript is technically accurate, and the code does exactly what the author claims. But it is too ambitious for the intended audience. Most people who could benefit from this manuscript are not statistically savvy, and the statistical sections will simply confuse them. In addition, it is not likely that many potential readers will be familiar with packages from the 'Hadleyverse', and incorporating those packages in the manuscript makes the code more difficult to understand. Paring the manuscript down to very simple heuristic statistical explanations, and limiting the code to functions from base R and the various Bioconductor packages being illustrated would make the manuscript more useful for its intended audience. 