 The authors showed here more interesting effects of Schiff base aromatic amino acid derivatives on antioxidant and immune system disturbances caused by AFB1 and Schiff base aromatic amino acid derivatives as potential good candidates. I appreciate the authors' focus on this interesting topic, strategy and detoxification, but regardless of its potentials there are some questions and uncertainties needed to be clarified in the text, methods and interpretation. Also the way of addressing at its current format with some unnecessary words, speculations and incomplete methods. We also like to see the interesting point of the immunological mechanistic effects of this work in the rat model. The way of writing should be switched towards the following direction and ... The acute toxicity is not an issue for the world, the chronic and invisible exposure is an issue. The authors should reformat their points and direction and in the introduction the authors should more precisely explain the issues related to chronic aspects/exposure/toxicity of AFB1, and some immunosuppressing effects of this toxin in human and animals’ immune cells and molecules. Also apply this direction for your interpretation of the works. Some useful papers it might be useful for this work to mention are referenced below this report. In the methods the authors should improve their methodology of work; Flow cytometry needs to be improved and data related to gating, and selecting the specific cells for the assays should be shown, and readers might want to see and learn. How you gated the neutrophils and monocytes and the process of flow cytometry needed for improving its quality. How you chose the cells in the gates? Also in the methods it is necessary how you prepared and dissolved AFB1 and mixed them with your Schiff base aromatic amino acid derivatives? And better explain the administration schedule for your rats? They are unclear; please make them clearer. The detailed methods for antioxidant assessments and luminometry should be addressed. The paper needs some revision and improvement and it is the authors’ duty to improve their nice works. For the caption of each figs please add the main message of each figure? English and typing errors through the text should be improved and cleaned… Terminology issues should be improved. For example, what do you mean for the “apoptotic rat? I do not understand. AFB 1 (1 should be subscripted through the text). Sometimes you should use rat rather than animals. Good luck 