 The article by Altmann and colleagues assesses the therapeutic impact of conditioned medium from both human and rodent apoptotic mononuclear cells (MNC). The paper reports highly interesting findings that not only contribute significantly to the understanding of adult cell-based therapies for ischemic diseases, but also shade some different light on the field. Of particular value is the inclusion of a tailored statistical model by a professional statistician as this enhances reliability of results and their interpretation. Moreover, the method section is extensive, allowing easy reproduction of experiments by other labs. In summary, the article is clearly above the average quality of similar studies, highly informative, and relevant. There are, however, a number of minor weak points that may be corrected or at least require some more detailed discussion. Please report all available physiological parameters of animals during MCAO and details on the randomization strategy applied. Why was the treatment started in a time window of 1h after stroke onset. This is clinically irrelevant and prevents collection of post-stroke baseline function. What was the rationale for applying secretomes from rat cells just one time, but two times from human cells? Why was the injection done i.p. and not i.v. or i.a. as common in the field? Behavioral data should be presented as mean +/- standard deviation. For details, please see Carter (2013) . Please explain the rational of the surprisingly short post-stroke surveillance period of just 48 hours. Both STEPS and STAIR committees recommend at least 1 month of post-stroke observation in preclinical studies, so there should be strong argument for underscoring this significantly. The discussion relies heavily on MSC which, potentially, is a bit distracting. There are ample papers discussing mechanisms of therapeutic impact by MNC, primarily from umbilical cord and bone marrow. The discussion should be directed towards those populations. There are ample commas (as typical in German) in decimal numbers that should be replaced by periods. 