In this revised manuscript, the authors addressed most of my previous concerns. But, two concerns are still remaining. Abstract The authors still indicate that LytR regulates cidABC. Abstract Discussion In this revised manuscript, the authors say that the phosphotransfer reaction from LytS-P to LytR is fast. “LytS… can catalyze a fast phosphotransfer reaction, with 50% of its phosphoryl group lost within 1 min of incubation with LytR.” “The fast phosphotransfer process that we observed between LytS and LytR (0.3 min-1) suggests that…” I admit that “fast” is a relative terminology and can be interpreted differently, depending on how you see it. In addition, the reaction condition is rather artificial in that variant proteins (i.e., cytoplasmic domain of LytS and GST-fusion form of LytR) were used, and the results might not reflect what is happening in the bacterial membrane. Nonetheless, I still think the presented data do not support the notion of “fast phosphotransfer” based on the following reason. As the author indicated, the rate constant of phosphotransfer reaction was calculated from “dephosphorylation of LytS-P”, not from “phosphorylation of LytR. If all phosphoryl groups detached from LytS-P are transferred to LytR, that would not matter. However, according to the results in Fig. 3A, that seems not to be the case. In the reaction, the LytR concentration is 2.5 times higher than that of LytS (10 uM LytR vs 4 uM LytS). According to the authors, 50% of 32P signals were lost from LytS-P within 1 min. However, at 1 min, the 32P signal of LytR-P is barely visible, indicating that most of the phosphoryl groups detached from LytS-P were NOT transferred to LytR. It might be argued that the low 32P signal of LytR-P is due to the phosphatase activity of LytS. In this case, we can expect a fast disappearance of LytS-P due to the futile phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of LytR. However, as Fig. 3A shows, LytS-P is very stable, and a significant amount of LytS-P is still seen at 90 min, even in the presence of 2.5 times excess LytR. If majority of phosphor-transfer occurs within 1 min, as the authors indicated in their response, we should see a saturation of LytR-P at 1 min. But, Fig. 3A shows that the LytR-P increases gradually, and its level is highest at 90 min. So, I recommend the authors to draw a graph for appearance of LytR-P and disappearance of LytS-P like the one in Fig. 4, which might help to clear up this issue.