Hydbring and Badalian-Very summarize in this review, the current status in the potential development of clinical applications based on miRNAs’ biology. The article gives an interesting historical and scientific perspective on a field that has only recently boomed; focusing mostly on the two main products in the pipeline of several biotech companies (in Europe and USA) which work with miRNAs-based agents, disease diagnostics and therapeutics. Interestingly, not only the specific agents that are being produced are mentioned, but also clever insights in the important cellular pathways regulated by key miRNAs are briefly discussed. Minor points to consider in subsequent versions: Page 2; paragraph ‘Genomic location and transcription of microRNAs’: the concept of miRNA clusters and precursors could be a bit better explained. Page 2; paragraph ‘Genomic location and transcription of microRNAs’: when discussing the paper by the laboratory of Richard Young (reference 16); I think it is important to mention that that particular study refers to stem cells. Page 2; paragraph ‘Processing of microRNAs’: “Argonate” should be replaced by “Argonaute”. Page 3; paragraph ‘MicroRNAs in disease diagnostics’: are miR-15a and 16-1 two different miRNAs? I suggest mentioning them as: miR-15a and miR-16-1 and not using a slash sign (/) between them. Page 4; paragraph ‘Circulating microRNAs’: I am a bit bothered by the description of multiple sclerosis (MS) only as an autoimmune disease. Without being an expert in the field, I believe that there are other hypotheses related to the etiology of MS. Page 5; paragraph ‘Clinical microRNA diagnostics’: Does ‘hsa’ in hsa-miR-205 mean something? Page 5; paragraph ‘Clinical microRNA diagnostics’: the authors mention the company Asuragen, Austin, TX, USA but they do not really say anything about their products. I suggest to either remove the reference to that company or to include their current pipeline efforts. Page 6; paragraph ‘MicroRNAs in therapeutics’: in the first paragraph the authors suggest that miRNAs-based therapeutics should be able to be applied with “minimal side-effects”. Since one miRNA can affect a whole gene program, I found this a bit counterintuitive; I was wondering if any data has been published to support that statement. Also, in the same paragraph, the authors compare miRNAs to protein inhibitors, which are described as more specific and/or selective. I think there are now good indications to think that protein inhibitors are not always that specific and/or selective and that such a property actually could be important for their evidenced therapeutic effects. Page 6; paragraph ‘MicroRNAs in therapeutics’: I think the concept of “antagomir” is an important one and could be better highlighted in the text. Throughout the text (pages 3, 5, 6, and 7): I am a bit bothered by separating the word “miRNA” or “miRNAs” at the end of a sentence in the following way: “miR-NA” or “miR-NAs”. It is a bit confusing considering the particular nomenclature used for miRNAs. That was probably done during the formatting and editing step of the paper. I was wondering if the authors could develop a bit more the general concept that seems to indicate that in disease (and in particular in cancer) the expression and levels of miRNAs are in general downregulated. Maybe some papers have been published about this phenomenon? 