 General Comments and Recommendation: The title is appropriate, the design of the simulations, and the methods and analysis employed are state of the art. The data provided is sufficient. However, the conclusions are overstretched and much longer simulations are needed to substantiate the claims. More detailed review: The article describes simulation studies of a 64-residue transmembrane fragment of the envelope glycoprotein E2 domain consisting of two segments: TM (residues 715-746) and ST (residues 683-714). The objective of the study is mainly to understand the role and structural dynamics of the ST segment. MD simulations have been performed on three different starting points: 2 models and one experimentally derived structure. The experimental structure 2KZQ is only 36 residues long itself, lacking the TM segment, and has large dynamics within the NMR structural ensemble (36 models with mean RMSD of 11.32). It is the homolog that produced the best model in I-Tasser, the authors have used in the study. The authors do not mention which model from the NMR ensemble they used in their MD simulations. Though the authors refer to previous experimental studies that show that the ST segment is helical upon membrane binding, a simple sequence-based helical propensity prediction of the HCV E2 genotype 1a (H77 strain) sequence (Uniprot ID P27958) could be included (to further substantiate their 'ideal helix' model used for the MD simulations). One of the main results of the article is that the ST segment has a stable helical conformation, stabilized more by the lipid-peptide interactions than the TM-ST peptide-peptide interactions. The similarity between the three different simulations, even with one of them lacking the TM segment, forms the basis of their conclusion. The authors observe uncharacteristic spikes towards the end in the simulations of NMR-structure and the I-Tasser model MD simulations (Figures 2, 3a, 3b). Since the NMR-structure simulation is very short (just 20ns) compared to the I-Tasser model simulation, the authors could perform a longer, equivalent 100ns simulation to compare them and ascertain further the importance of lipid-peptide interactions in the ST helical segment stability. Also, given that in the I-Tasser simulation, there is a lot of dynamics observed after the 20ns timepoint until the end of the simulation, a longer simulation of the NMR-structure is recommended. The other key result which we found interesting is the orientational and positional preference of the amphipathic ST segment, which seems to be parallel to the lipid leaflets. Reorganization and movement of the ST segment towards the hydrophobic core of the lipids, as shown in Fig S1, is observed clearly in the I-Tasser model simulation, whereas the initial horizontal orientation is maintained in the other simulations. The authors could identify the key residues involved in this re-organization and highlight them