This publication is a prospective case series of patients who are reported to have amblyopia, who underwent full time occlusion following one month of refractive adaption. The authors have divided the patients in to three age groups. They claim 100% success in achieving 6/6 Snellen in the younger group, with high percentages claimed in the other two age groups exceeding 90%. The authors also claim that the full time occlusion treated heterotropia in 85% of the younger age group who had a strabismus, 64% of the middle age group (age 8-12) and 29% of the older age group. The latter claim is not discussed further. Very few visually related problems are aired, with two children, and one patient in the older age category relapsing, with vision being restored with further occlusion. The authors have reported a high incidence of contact dermatitis - treated with topical steroid. On the face of it the authors seem to have solved the problem of amblyopia management, declaring results far in excess of other published studies. They have also managed in some way to treat strabismus, even though occlusion is not normally thought to be a treatment for strabismus. There are a number of observations that might explain the discrepancy between this publication’s results and those of others. The first is the case selection. Paragraph 1 of the methods is confusing. If the better eye has to be 6/6 for inclusion, it would be much more simple to state that all amblyopic eyes were equal to or less than 6/12 (assuming a three line difference of 6/7.5, 6/9 and 6/12). If all amblyopic eyes were 6/60 or less (as is suggested later in the discussion) than this is not a difference of three lines. We are not told how many lines there are on their charts, which can be highly variable. We are also told that there are “study specified criteria for strabismus and/or anisometropia”, but are not told what these are. We are told that those with organic visual loss are excluded, although cases of stimulus deprivation are included. One has to assume therefore that in these cases the cause of the stimulus deprivation has been removed. The cases have been referred to a tertiary centre, so it is not clear how much treatment might have been instituted in the past, and again an assumption that many of these cases have been treated by other methods could be made, possibly with an initial good outcome at some point in the past. Although the cases selected are probably all amblyopic, it is possible that some may not be, if they have not been refracted for many years. Lastly by selecting patients with 6/6 in the better eye, cases of bilateral ammetropic amblyopia have been excluded. The second concern is the method of assessing visual acuity. All studies of amblyopia currently use crowded logMAR testing on all patients, even those with the inability to read letters. The use of Snellen does not lend itself to statistical analysis (as the authors have done to plot their graphs) as it is a non linear scale. Furthermore the authors have stated that Kay’s pictures are used for those who are unable to read letters. It is assumed that these are single optotypes and not crowded. This method of assessment is highly correlated to over-estimations of visual acuity, and may go some way to explain the apparent good results. We are not told of the proportion of those who have been tested using this method. The third concern is the length of time allowed for refractive adaption. Most authors would agree that a month is not long enough, with much variation in the literature, but up to 18 weeks being common. It is possible that some of the reported improvement in acuity is as a result of the refractive adaption rather than occlusion. The authors might have given more information on how compliance was assessed. Many studies report poor compliance. Having said this the apparent high association of contact dermatitis suggests good compliance. There are a number of omissions that are of concern. In such a group of children with strabismus and amblyopia, I would have expected some children to have small angle, constant esotropia with no binocular vision (and suppression). The paragraph on page 4 (last paragraph in right hand column) seems to divide patients into those with orthophoria and those that had surgery. It seems odd that there are no patients in the group that have small angle manifest strabismus, but did not need surgery. Are we to assume the patients with orthophoria have binocular vision? It is unlikely in patients who started the study with dense amblyopia. Another omission is any information on binocular vision. In the UK, the practice of occlusion therapy is associated with assessments of the depth of suppression, albeit without much data to support it. The concern is the complication of diplopia, by removing suppression with occlusion. Any publication expounding the virtues of full time occlusion needs to be careful not to create an environment where diplopia is created to the detriment of the patients overall vision. A further concern is occlusion amblyopia. It would appear from the graphs that occlusion was applied for a mean of 14 weeks. Full time occlusion in patients as young as 4 might be associated with this complication, which it would appear did not occur. Lastly it would be of interest if there were any patients who were lost to follow up. These patients are important as often associated with treatment failure. Again it would appear not to have occurred. In the discussion, much of the first paragraph could be edited. On page 5, the first complete paragraph, it is confusing as the authors describe group A, as being 3 patients (“three literate cases”) and “the remaining eight children” - which makes 11 cases, however there were 38 in this group. Language and Typographical errors: Page 4, first paragraph on the right, talks about reversal of amblyopia. I think the authors are talking about the amblyopic eye visual acuity decreasing. I think “regression” might be a better term as reverse amblyopia is a term used to describe the reduction of vision in the previously better eye, described above as occlusion amblyopia. Page 5 first paragraph - “can manage on his own” would be better “can manage independently”. Page 5 right hand column talks about “100% improvement”. I do not understand this. 100% of what? Page 5, second to last full paragraph on left, word "improvent" should be improvement, and first full paragraph on the right, strabismica - should be strabismic. Third to last line on page 5 - “is very an economical” - delete "an". Page 6, column on the right, first line, “performed the literature search, kept the patients’ records...” would read better. Overall the authors have produced a piece of work that is thought provoking. Although the overall results are challenged, they are still impressive. Consideration of full time occlusion, with care to avoid occlusion amblyopia and diplopia, may be an accepted form of treatment in selected cases. Declaration: Sameera Irfan (first author) is a former trainee of the reviewer (1995 - 1996). 