Again, I have to emphasise that this is interesting research and I found the detailed answers to my concerns very useful. I assume there were some minor misunderstandings in this large revision and some major concerns remain. I suggested including frontal electrodes because we recently found that they are indeed important for detecting motor imagery. I agree with you that preprocessing is needed when using these electrodes. I would at least use frontal electrodes in your future work, even if you decide not to include them into your analysis (which I would really regret because I think the results would benefit from it). I have a concern about studies in which the participants are told not to blink during a specified period. Participants are additionally engaged to concentrate on not blinking. Since motor imagery is a demanding task this could cause some bias. I would mention this in the limitations section. I asked you about the up-sampling because I found that the explanation in the paper " Upsampled EEG data were processed with a Hamming window of 256 samples, using an overlap of 250 in the time domain " with the subsequent mentioning of 1000 Hz sampling frequency in some following paragraph is a little confusing. The intention of my questions was to guide you to the details of the paper which are unclear. By changing the text according to my questions, the paper could become more understandable. In other words: I did not only expect an answer to this question, I expected some changes in the text. This applies to all the other questions I raised in the first review. I would kindly ask you to change the manuscript according to my questions raised upon the first version. If readers can quickly understand what you have done, they are more likely to cite your work. You wrote in your answers: " We represent here the QPs that reached a good value of accuracy ." It is recommendable to state this in the paper together with a quantitative criterion for a good value of accuracy. In general I find it difficult to see the statistics which were performed. In the results you state that there is " no significant difference between the QP calculated from ratio and ratio " but there is no information on what test was used and which electrodes were tested etc. For evaluating accuracy, you should use statistics instead of "good" accuracy above 70%, which comes out of the blue and may not be sufficient. There is a statistical test to assess if accuracy is significantly above chance. You could use the maximum chance criteria and an adequate measure of significance and effect size, as described in Marcoulides G, Hershberger S (1974) Statistical Methods: A first course . Psychology Press. With respect to Figure 3 you answered that these data correspond to the central area of the brain. Is this data of a single electrode? You should exactly indicate this information in the revision. Although you discuss the issue of BCI and multimodal interfacing, I find it still misleading to just read BCI in the title/abstract. This is simply the wrong term. You could change the title: Quality parameters for a multimodal human-computer-interface based on EEG, EMG, and kinematics, aiming to suppress neurological tremor in upper limbs. Although you justify the selection of 2 patients and 3 trials, it needs to be discussed that this may not be representative. Thus, generalisations are limited. I would emphasise the exploratory character of this study in the title or at least in the abstract and the discussion. 