In this manuscript, Dr. Kenny describes a useful and straightforward web-based informatics tool that enables genetics professionals to rapidly and potentially more accurately infer genomic relationships of copy number alterations (CNA) disparately reported as individual genes in clinical genomics reports. This will aid both clinicians in working/teaching conferences (such as molecular tumor boards) and translational researchers reviewing archived clinical data. The rationale for the tool and the overview of the method is clear. The web interface is easy to use and provides a clear result report; code is available at Github. I have several points for improvement, clarification, and commentary on the manuscript and the software tool: Major Considerations I recommend that the assayed genes without amplification which are used by the algorithm as boundary genes be explicitly reported in the interface. In Fig 1D, these are represented as genes 4 and 27; as a minor point, I believe the legend for Fig 1D needs to be updated to be congruent with the figure. In the current interface report, the region of potential contiguous amplifications are only reported as cytobands. Specifically reporting the identity of these boundary genes would help genetics professionals to more precisely quality control the interpretation of both the original genomics report and the interface output. The tool is currently static configured for FoundationOne (F1); it would be beneficial to configure the web interface to allow (perhaps through a drop down menu) selection of other reasonably common cancer genomics reports which offer CNA data such as: Caris, Tempus, and the Illumina products TST170 and TSO500 (which are being deployed by some academic laboratories for clinical testing). Ultimately, an option to input a text file with HGVS gene names would be beneficial. I would suggest an expanded introduction or discussion about the status of clinical utility for gene amplification from comprehensive genomic profiling NGS assays. For example, only ERBB2 amplification is specifically included in the FDA premarket approval of the F1 assay ( https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpma/pma.cfm?id=p170019 , accessed 07/10/2019). The most common diagnostic approach for gene amplification in clinical practice and clinical trials is FISH, frequently normalized to the centromeric copy number of the same chromosome on which the gene of interest resides (for example, see references 2-5 of the manuscript). There are, of course, significant pitfalls in the use of FISH as a longer established clinical standard, but I am not immediately aware of comprehensive accuracy assessments for somatic CNA analysis across broad numbers of genes by NGS, particularly in unpaired tests (i.e. no patient-specific normal sample for comparisons). A more in-depth review of these considerations and limitations in the introduction or discussion would equip readers to better interpret the expected output of datasets and any results generated using the tool. Minor Comments and Commentary Please clarify in the methods if the COSMIC Cancer Gene Census list in the tool has been filtered for type of alteration (i.e. SNV and small indel vs. gene rearrangement vs. CNA). Or is it the full 719 CGC list as referenced? It may be valuable to consider cross-referencing the cytobands and/or cancer-associated genes within the predicted CNA region against regions/genes commonly copy number altered in pan-cancer analyses. For example: Beroukhim et al .[ Nature 2010 1 , Zack et al . Nature Genetics 2013 2 , Ohshima et al. Scientific Reports 2017 3 . Presenting this information in the report interface in future iterations would improve the quality and utility of the software tool. The ability to specifically annotate case results against disease-specific databases (i.e. TCGA projects) would also be valuable (see below as well). Commentary on use cases. The use cases provide a reasonable snapshot of how the tool functions and can be applied. Specifically, use case 1 highlights a common CNA in cancer (11q13.3) which has been described previously (Zack et al . Nature Genetics 2013 2 ) and this specific amplicon is commonly seen in clinical genomics reports at our institution. The question of utility around FGFR inhibitors has arisen in our own molecular tumor boards based on the co-amplified FGF ligand genes, when in reality CCND1 is most likely the significant driver. Use case 2 highlights potentially actionable genes (KIT, PDGFRA) located in the same cytoband (4q12). However, the region of potential co-amplification crosses the Chr4 centromere (Chr4p15.31-4q12). It may be beneficial to further discuss how carefully to interpret amplicons which span both chromosomal arms. In this particular case, I infer that no reported amplified genes are present on 4p; but no boundary genes were analyzed centromeric to the PDGFRA locus. This seems worth a deeper discussion in the text. Use case 3 highlights an important point about potential drop out of amplification calls in NGS data. Dr. Kenny proposes that the entire amplicon on 7q is amplified, which is a reasonable hypothesis. It is important to note that specific bioinformatics pipelines and wet-bench library prep methods will not have equivalent analytic sensitivity/specificity for amplification calls for every captured gene. Case 3 is also interesting because the amplicon included CDK6, which is a target for FDA approved drugs in hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer. It might be interesting for Dr. Kenny to further comment on whether CDK inhibitors were considered less likely based on the triple negative hormone receptor status (PMID: 30038670 4 ). I ran several of my own cases through InferAmp. Of interest, a case of high grade serous epithelial ovarian carcinoma is illustrative of the utility of the tool. This case had 8 separate gene amplifications reported by F1, including: KRAS, FGF23, FGF6, and CCND2 (all on Chr12p). The static clinical report indicated KRAS amplification was potentially relevant for MEK inhibitor therapy. Nevertheless, my molecular tumor board noted this amplification contig and noted that 12p is commonly amplified in high-grade serous carcinoma (TCGA); therefore it was unlikely to be a patient-specific driver alteration. The InferAmp quickly and accurately identified this amplicon, with the caveat that a potentially erroneous “break” was present at 12p13.1 (similar to Dr. Kenny’s use case 3). Finally, the final sentence of the manuscript cautioning that inferred co-amplified genes should be confirmed by CLIA-validated assays cannot be emphasized enough. 