 Title Ok. Abstract ‘We present the performance characteristics of a modified commercial HIVDR testing assay.’ Should be changed to ‘this study established the performance characteristics of a modified commercial HIVDR testing assay’. The abstract lacks a recommendation. The key word ‘assay validation’ is missing in the abstract. Introduction ‘Various multinational groups’ use ‘agencies’ instead of ‘groups’. ‘….leading to improved access to antiretroviral therapy (ART)’ replace with ‘leading to improved access to HIV clinical care’. (HIV care is not limited to antiretroviral therapy only). ‘….the outcome of the expanded access to ART is significant decline of HIV/AIDS associated morbidity and mortality.’ Replace with ‘…the outcome of the expanded access to clinical care has been a significant drop in HIV/AIDS related morbidity and mortality.’ ‘As a result, there has been an increase in both life expectancy and duration for patients on lifelong ART translating to high risk of HIV drug resistance (HIVDR) development’. This statement has not been brought out clearly what aspect of ‘duration’ is being implied in this case? ‘……transmission of HIV drug resistance’ add ‘strains’ after resistance. ‘One such test was developed by Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and is currently distributed by Thermo Fisher Scientific10, and is herein referred to as the original assay’. Change to ‘One such test, herein referred to as the original assay, was developed by the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and is currently distributed by Thermo Fisher Scientific.’ Methods Samples Are 26 samples enough to validate an assay? And how did you arrive upon this sample size? How were the samples collected? By venipuncture or cardiac puncture? Be very clear by which method. After clinic, delete the word ‘laboratory’. Patients attend clinics, not clinic laboratories. -80 is already a freezing condition. Delete the word ‘freezer’, the statement will still make sense without the subtle repetition. What are ‘remnant plasma samples’? Were they the ones stored in the freezer? What defines them as ‘remnant’? Ethical approval It is claimed here that consent was waived, yet in the sample collection, it is clearly stated that the samples were collected from patients. How and why was the consent waived, and by whom? Viral RNA extraction Add ‘the’ before manufacturer’s. Microcentrifuge ‘tubes’. Plural. HIV DRT As this was a study validating an assay that relied heavily on reagent volumes, why aren’t the volumes of the original assay and their reaction temperatures not included here? Reagent cost comparison As the year is not out yet and conversion rates keep fluctuating, which conversion rate did you use? Provide references for definition of the following words: Precision, Reproducibility, Accuracy and amplification sensitivity Statistics Significance was set at what p value? Results Only two drug resistance genes are targeted in this assay, what informed the decision to arrive on these two sets of genes? Table 5 should be the one introducing the results subtopic. Introduce the samples, the viral loads before the validation assay results are presented. Remove the grids from the tables. Discussion Use third person singular when discussing your results. You don’t ‘show’ in discussion what has been shown in the results section. Delete ‘altogether’ in the first paragraph. What did Zhou et al. 1 find out, and which procedure were they modifying? Include the year of the study too. As it has been used as the main reference, is it the only study that supports your findings? Are there studies that contradict your findings, and if there are, why aren’t they included here? If the samples were obtained from patients who had not been exposed to protease inhibitors, why did your study focus on protease inhibitors? 