"Paediatric morbidity and mortality in Sierra Leone. Have things changed after the 2014/2015 Ebola outbreak?" provides a straight forward analysis of changes in reports of, and mortality from, four diseases before, during and after the 2014/2015 Ebola outbreak based on data from DHIS2 in Sierra Leone. The report provides simple, but important, statistics on morbidity and mortality for malaria, ARI/pneumonia, watery diarrhea, and measles. While the data and analysis is important, I have some significant concerns with the statistical analysis and interpretation of the results: Statistics: While the use of chi-squared test to identify that significant differences in mortality exist is appropriate, it only is being used to compare pre- and post Ebola periods and does not help with evaluation of the size of the changes. I would suggest the authors instead select a reference period and report relative rates and confidence intervals, so the data can be better understood. Further, the authors do not perform statistical tests to support some of their statements, some of which are noted below. More tests for differences in reported rates between periods and some analysis of changes in the Ebola period would better support their conclusions. Interpretation: The authors make several statements in the discussion and abstract that do not correspond to the analyses done. For instance, they make statements regarding trends in case reports, but perform no statistical test as to whether between period changes in reports are significant. Further, in some cases they frame speculation as a key finding of the paper, such as when they attribute changes to community confidence in the health system. Such speculations need to be clearly framed as such. Overall, this paper could be made far stronger and more valuable with the addition of just a few additional basic statistical analyses that were more aligned with the conclusions the authors which to highlight in the discussion. This analysis could likely be done while preserving the admirable conciseness and brevity of the paper. Specific notes: Introduction, "to early to assess...": Could this not just be recovery, but also improvements, as significant investments followed the Ebola outbreak. Discussion, "First, the reductions in case fatality...": There is not really any evidence for this association in the paper, it should be, at the very least, more clear this is speculation. Discussion, "Second, increased measles cases...": If this is going to be said it needs to be better supported by the statistical analysis in the paper. Discussion, "In conclusion, consultations...": This was not explicitly tested in the analysis, so I am not sure it can be concluded. 