The first, the topic is relevant and interesting. However, the authors need to clarify some points for future replication by other. Please confirm code of the dependent variable and independent variables in this study.I am not sure whether the dependent variable is Preference or WTP1 or WTP2.I try to replicate the result by using STATA program, but the result of the multiple logistic regressions is not the same those presenting in Table 5. My analysis are: Table 1 Table 2 Table 3 Remarks on Table 5 mentions about the Vietnamese economic status using the monthly income quintile. It would help us gaining better understanding if the authors discuss how the amount of 2,000,000 VND for single service and 3,000,000 VHD for yearly services related to their income status. Furthermore, if it is calculated as % of total expense, we will have better understanding on whether it is considered as high cost, or catastrophic cost or not. However, for sure the expense for this counseling service is not too high. How could we guarantee that this could reflect the real perception of the value of counselling as priority and their willingness to pay when compare to other services such as treatment that have better short term output or outcomes. The methodology of biding to get the WTP amount is very interesting that the participants choose the amount themselves and use their mean as WTP. Please discuss concerning the amount that finally identify as WTP is appropriate in the real context of their living standard. Participants of this research are clients who are seeking services at the Center of Preventive Medicine. Researcher should explain whether the sample could represent to population, since they might have some conditions that have higher demand for the services, then the results might be over estimate. Since this study is interesting: Is the nutrition counseling fee included in their service package (with all service) that they must pay. Or The nutrition counseling is separate service that they could select or not select? 