Major: Poorly written paper and needs English editing throughout. Many of the sentences are not clear and I could not follow many things because of grammatical errors. Abstract results need to be rewritten correctly. For the calculation of sample size, what indicators were used? Also provide the formula. Was the questionnaire by those physicians completed in the hospital premises? Although you did say those physicians were blinded but if they filled the questionnaire in health facilities then those physicians could have accessed the medical record data? This may add bias to the study. Facts such as women in cases who were young, lived in non urban areas, and had lower monthly family income were not discussed in the discussion section. Reference 2 is from 1998 and from Tanzania. Should use an updated citation and global figure. Reference 3 is very old (from 2004). Reference 5 indicates it is on maternal mortality. However, authors have used it for LBW burden. Please check if this is correctly cited? Minor: Several minor points has been raised in the attached. I would suggest changing the title to “Does antenatal care has any impact on reducing low birth weight. – a case-control study.” Several grammatical errors, would suggest getting a good proof for language and grammar. Abstract: suggest changing the word “problem” to concern. “Background: Low Birth Weight (LBW) is a worldwide public health problem..” Abstract: suggest changing this sentence from: Antenatal care (ANC) is provided to improve maternal and child health outcomes.” to “Women are offered antenatal care (ANC) to improve maternal, pregnancy and newborn outcomes”. Introduction: second line “le” should be “less than” Rewrite this sentence: “During 2005–2010, LBW incidences in countries of the Association of Southeast Asian nations ASEAN were 21.0% in Philippines, 11.0% in Malaysia, Cambodia and Lao PDR, 9.0% in Indonesia, 7.0% in Thailand and 5.0% in Vietnam 3 .” Whenever you are saying compared with normal children, it should be normal weight babies. 