This review sets out to challenge current thinking on the role of connective tissue. This is at its clearest in the “New questions for research” section where several concepts are listed that might guide new research or the interpretation of older research. Unfortunately the preceding text does not delineate with sufficient clarity or precision the context of potentially antiquated concepts or emerging ideas that would make these questions for new research seem important or relevant to the reader. Indeed, the promise in the title that this article will address a “paradigm shift” is simply not matched by a clear explanation of what old paradigm(s) are being questioned or what new paradigm(s) are being proposed. An explicit and specific synopsis of what concepts are being challenged and proposed is urgently needed and should appear prominently in the Abstract and/or Introduction and should perhaps be reiterated in the Discussion and/or Conclusion. More explicit and conventional organization would benefit the article in other ways. While there is a titled section on “Anatomy and physiology”, the preceding text devoted to embryology falls in the titled “Introduction” section. This lack of symmetry and the immediate launch into embryological detail under the “Introduction” heading is confusing. Then there is a “Discussion” section in which the literature review continues, rather than switching to an overview or synthesis of what was presented in earlier sections, as normally occurs in a Discussion section. This inconsistent and non-conventional use of titled sections detracts from the article’s sense of focus and direction. Finally, there are a couple of needed improvements in the discussion of early development. 1) There are several Spanish words retained in Figure 2 where the following changes are needed: Corda to Chorda; Cefalic to Cephalic; Esclerotomo to Sclerotome; Miotomo to Myotome; Dermotomo to Dermatome. 2) The text discusses mesenchyme as a “special section” on the “sides of the paraxial mesoderm.” But the term “mesenchyme” does not appear in Figure 2. I think it would be more correct and more in line with Figure 2, to say that the mesenchyme (with the exception of head mesenchyme) is derived from or formed from lateral plate mesoderm (or “a special section flanking the paraxial mesoderm”) rather than defining it is an initial subdivision of the mesoderm.