Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by a series of endocrine and metabolism disturbances, such as insulin resistance, hyperandrogenism, sympathetic dysfunction and chronic low-grade inflammation state 1 but the inter-relationships between these factors still remain unclear. Hyperandrogenism is the most important manifestation and diagnostic criteria of PCOS, and the Androgen Excess and PCOS Society (AES) has proposed that hyperandrogenism should be the essential condition to diagnose PCOS 2 .There are three forms of serum testosterone (T), 60-65% was combined to sex hormones lobulin (SHBG) tightly, 35-40% was combined to albumin and free testosterone (FT) only consists 1-2% of total T. Which kind of serum androgen should be measured for diagnosis of PCOS remains controversial. Recently, it is believed assessments of free testosterone levels are more sensitive than the measurement of total T for establishing the existence of androgen excess 3 . Dr. Hestiantoro aims to determine the correlation between hormone profile, lipid profile and clinical profile with free testosterone index in subjects with PCOS, which is worthy of study. According to the Rotterdam diagnostic criteria, there are at least four phenotypes of PCOS: Subtype I - PCO hyperandrogenism oligo-ovulation, SubtypeⅡ - PCO oligo-ovulation, SubtypeⅢ - hyperandrogenism oligo-ovulation, Subtype Ⅳ - PCO + hyperandrogenism. Different phenotypes may display different endocrine disorders. Dr. Hestiantoro has shown that high FTI in PCOS patients is associated with high triglyceride levels, high testosterone levels, and low SHBG levels, while Ferriman Gallwey score, as an indicator of hirsutism, shows no significant association with FTI. But another researcher who assessed the lipid profile in lean and non-lean PCOS patients, hyperandrogenemia was defined as free androgen index (FAI) ≥5, whose results show higher levels of total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in lean patients with FAI 5 than in lean patients with FAI ≥ 5. There were no differences in lipid profile between non-lean patients with FAI ≥ 5 and non-lean patients with FAI 5 4 . Another study has also confirmed these results with Ferriman-Gallwey scores(FGS) and triglycerides are significantly higher in PCOS patients 5 . In another study, PCOS patients with adrenal hyperandrogenism do not exhibit deterioration in insulin resistance and lipid profile despite the higher degree of total androgens 6 . So what is the real correlation between hormone profile, lipid profile, and clinical profile with free testosterone index in subjects with PCOS? In my opinion, different PCOS phenotypes may display different endocrine and metabolic disorders, and FTI (free testosterone index) is a very valuable potential measurement to diagnose PCOS. It is of great significance to identify endocrine and metabolic characteristics of different phenotypes, but I am afraid the sample size of Dr.Hestiantoro's research is still too small to answer this question, and I suggest the authors may clarify PCOS patients to more detailed phenotypes and may have more interesting findings with a bigger sample size. 