Upon reviewing this paper for a second time I’m afraid that I’m still unable to recommend it for indexing. The main results and conclusions from the abstract are not clearly supported by the data here. For example in the result section of the abstract the authors state: “LSF treatment also increased levels of the lipid classes phosphtidylcholine, cholesteryl ester and oxo-phytodienoic acid but decreased levels of phosphatidylethanolamine lipids.” This would suggest that the protection afforded by LSF treatment operates by altering the lipid profile prior to oxidative stress. Indeed, in the conclusion section of the introduction the authors propose that retinal cells can be pre-conditioned with LSF to regulate levels of selected fatty acids and lipids. However, from page 6 “In the absence of oxidative stress, no changes in lipid levels between LSF-treated cells and untreated control were reported.” So LSF pre-treatment does not alter the lipid profile although there are differences in the lipid profile following oxidative stress between cells that were LSF pre-treatment. These differences most likely reflect the reduction in oxidative damage in these cells rather than providing a rational for the mechanism of protection. There also appear to be discrepancies between the authors response to my previous review and the changes made in the revised version of the manuscript. For example, in their response to my previous review: We have amended the Methods section by removing the use of calibration curves and added the statement “The data was generated using the reverse phase peak area response of each lipid species rather than the absolute concentration.” I was unable to find this statement in the revised version of the manuscript, instead on page 5 we have: “The lipidomic data was generated using the peak ion area response of each lipid series relative to an internal standard rather than absolute concentrations using reverse phase LC-MS”. So, did the authors use internal standards or not? d7-cholesterol is the only lipidomics standard that I could find mentioned in the text although it doesn’t seem to be included in the repository data. The repository data does include internal standards for LPC, PI, SM and TG. In a similar vein, my previous review made mention of several fold-changes that were in error which the authors attributed to typographical errors. The authors claim to have amended these values in the revised version of the manuscript. In the revised version of the manuscript however we find that all of the fold-changes have been altered, including those which were previously in agreement with the reviewer’s calculation. In the revised submission all values are now in disagreement with both the original submission and this reviewers’ calculations (see here ). Some aspects of the data analysis continue to be unclear. For example, the lipidomic data was normalized based on the number of cells (these numbers should be provided in the repository for clarity) which seems extremely sensible. However, the authors state that the data was also normalized to the median of the peak area response. As the median peak area response would also scale with the number of cells wouldn’t this second normalization negate the normalization by the number of cells? Why is it necessary to normalize to the median value? Finally, the authors state that “An autoscale has also been applied.” What is the auto-scale and how has it been applied? The authors state in the statistical and data analysis section that a paired t-test was used for the lipidomic analysis. Given the study design it is not clear to me the basis on which the samples were “paired”. The authors also need to adjust their analysis to account for the multiple comparisons problem. This was raised in my previous review but the authors appear to have misunderstood my meaning, discussing instead comparisons of multiple groups by ANOVA analysis. To clarify I’m talking about the problem of false positive identifications that will arise when comparing a large number of analytes. In the current example the authors consider 328 lipids, with a 5% cut-off we expect 16.4 lipids to have a p-value of 0.05 by chance alone. To combat this problem people typically employ something like a Bonferroni correction (which the authors have apparently used in their fatty acid analysis) or more often the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure. The authors need to demonstrate that the lipids reported as significantly different remain statistically significant upon application of this more stringent test. I would also recommend reporting the p-values here. I have some additional comments: In Figure 3 plotting the points from the untreated control is misleading as all of these points have been imputed. In Figure 5 I note that PC 33:3 is plotted twice and somewhat surprisingly the plots do not match.