The article “Development of a clinical algorithm for treating urethral strictures based on a large retrospective single-center cohort” provides durable data based on a large number of patients treated by direct vision internal urethrotomy (DVIU) for urethral stricture diseases. Aim of this study was to develop an algorithm for clinical decision-making. Introduction: As discussed, success rates given by the literature vary broadly. The authors stated it ranges between 32% and 73.1%. This leaves out data given by Santucci et al. with significantly lower success rates between 0 and 9% only, that said, this was a smaller patient cohort 1 . These data should be included as they mirror the variety in results given by the literature. The authors stated: “The guidelines issued by the professional organizations do not generally recommend urethrotomy in patients with strictures longer than 1 cm or repeated urethrotomy sessions.” These guidelines should be quoted 2 . Results/discussion: The time to recurrence of urethral stricture would be interesting to know. Vesicourethral anastomosis stenosis (VUS), bladder neck stenosis (BNS) and traumatic posterior urethral stenosis are different to anterior urethral strictures. It should be avoided to mix theses different reasons for bladder outlet obstruction. As partially discussed the 28 (VUS and BNS) and 16 (trauma) patients in the modern cohort should be excluded. If they have been, as it remains unclear after restudying the material and methods as well as the discussion part, it needs to be clarified more precisely. In the material and methods section it is stated: “Only patients without any prior treatment of urethral strictures were included in the study”. However, in the results we have listed 13 patients with prior urethroplasty in the modern cohort (Table 2). These patients should be excluded. Stricture recurrence after urethroplasty is a different situation and should be considered elsewhere 3 . Further on, data as shown in Figure 1 should be supported by total number of patients analyzed: Data like declining recurrence rates in repeated DVIUs in patients with prebulbar strictures hint at small sample sizes. This issue is addressed in results: “No other etiological group was associated with an improved success rate following the second operation.” But no conclusion has been drawn from this statement. The authors stated: “One of the important findings in Cohort II is that a prolonged catheterization (6–10 days) tended to be more favorable in terms of recurrence than ultrashort (1–2 days) and short (3–5 days) regimens (p0.01)”. This stands in contrast to published data by Albers et al. with a comparable patient cohort 4 . This issue needs to be discussed. The significant differences negatively affecting the success rate after second DVIU for the 31–50-year-old groups, demonstrating that the second treatment attempt was by far less successful in those patients, needs to be discussed as well. As stated: “The number of strictures and their stricture localization did not significantly influence the outcome”. This again is in contrast to most data given. It needs to be discussed as well. In Figure 2, some arrows to illustrating the next suggested treatment (for example: after 1.DVIU in a short stricture in case of recurrence, an arrow to other treatments in case of younger age, penile or post-TURP-strictures) would be helpful to faster understand the figure. Overall, the effort made to find a clinical algorithm how and when to apply DVIUs is excellent. In this paper data given by this large cohort seems reliable. Unfortunately, statistical analysis did not reveal clear discriminating factors. This extenuates the power of the proposed algorithm and should be discussed more clearly. It seems obvious that other factors, as discussed by the authors, seem to influence outcome more relevant. As long as these factors are not identified clearly, an algorithm as proposed by the authors seems to be the most applicable tool. Based on these findings, this reviewer considers this manuscript as a minor revision. References 1. Santucci R, Eisenberg L: Urethrotomy has a much lower success rate than previously reported. J Urol . 2010; 183 (5): 1859-62 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Buckley JC, Heyns C, Gilling P, Carney J: SIU/ICUD Consultation on Urethral Strictures: Dilation, internal urethrotomy, and stenting of male anterior urethral strictures. Urology . 2014; 83 (3 Suppl): S18-22 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Rosenbaum CM, Schmid M, Ludwig TA, Kluth LA, et al.: Internal urethrotomy in patients with recurrent urethral stricture after buccal mucosa graft urethroplasty. World J Urol . 2015; 33 (9): 1337-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Albers P, Fichtner J, Brühl P, Müller SC: Long-term results of internal urethrotomy. J Urol . 1996; 156 (5): 1611-4 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Fisch M, Rosenbaum C and Kluth L. Reviewer Report For: Development of a clinical algorithm for treating urethral strictures based on a large retrospective single-center cohort [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2378 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10155.r18345 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2378/v1#referee-response-18345 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Amend B. Reviewer Report For: Development of a clinical algorithm for treating urethral strictures based on a large retrospective single-center cohort [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2378 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10155.r17960 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2378/v1#referee-response-17960 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 29 Nov 2016 Bastian Amend , Department of Urology, Eberhard Karls University Tuebingen, Tübingen, Germany Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10155.r17960 The presented study is based retrospectively on a considerable patient population. This makes conclusive statements possible. Some questions need revision/to be answered: The time to recurrence of urethral stricture would be necessary to know. In addition, it ... Continue reading READ ALL 