Conventional freeze fracture experiments were performed on small unilamellar vesicles prepared from soybean lipids using a microfluidizer. Glycerol was used to induce fusion, which was random producing a few pairs of vesicles in the process of fusion. The images of intermediate states are interpreted to support the presence of a ring of lipidic particles at the critical point of bilayer-bilayer fusion. This approach is promising and the images are interesting; however, there are major concerns with the controls and with the interpretation of the images. Specific comments: Figure 1A. The image does not display a freeze fracture experiment. There is no fracture plane through the lipid vesicles. If such a fracture plane existed in this region, then vesicles with both convex and concave surfaces would be visible (as in subsequent images). Only convex surfaces are visible. In addition the convex surface of the larger structures have a revealing pattern of density: the four larger vesicles have a dark rim and light center. This is due to the carbon layer that builds up on the curved surface to be thick near the edges but thin enough in the center to be nearly transparent. It appears that a layer of sample, perhaps adjacent to a fractured region, was shadowed to reveal some vesicles but not the expected vesicle size distribution or fracture pattern of a control. Figure 1B. The vesicles exposed in this image are consistent with a normal fracture pattern where both convex and concave vesicles are visible. It should be noted that the fracture step through the monolayer of lipid is present on concave vesicles and, as the authors point out, on the large vesicle where a flap has been fractured away. The difficulty with this image is that the background ice is not smooth as would be expected for samples prepared in 30% glycerol. The authors should explain why the background here is different from those in subsequent freeze fracture images. One possibility is that some etching occurred. Figure 1C. The main emphasis in this image is the mound or bump near the fusion interface of the vesicle pair labeled 2. The interpretation is that the bump represents a fracture through a ring of lipidic particles. The problem is that a single bump is not consistent with a ring of particles and the hydrophobic plane of fracture around a lipid particle may not appear as a bump or a bulge (as a whole particle might). Fractures from several different viewpoints and proceeding around the fusion site are needed to properly interpret this pattern in terms of fusion intermediate structures. A single image showing a slight protrusion is not convincing even if the interpretation turns out to be correct. Figure 1D. This shows an interesting image of a fusion contact site (labeled 3). The interpretation of this pattern as a fracture through a ring of lipid particles is difficult to justify based on the irregular size of the particles in the ring. More such images are needed showing particles of consistent size and distribution. In addition the image shows some other features that should be explained, such as the large number of oblong (or rod-like) vesicles, up to about five, and the large number of small particles in the background ice (also present in 1C). It is not clear whether these particles are from contaminant proteins in the solution or from artifacts deposited during the fracturing or shadowing steps. Figures 1E and 2. The diagrams and molecular interpretations emphasize the role of lipidic particles in the fusion process. These particles have been implicated in bilayer and membrane fusion for decades without clear resolution about their presence in native fusion events within cells. The use of glycerol to induce fusion implies that glycerol does not significantly interact with the lipid bilayers or induce lipidic particles. At least one report suggests that glycerol (unlike polyethylene glycol) can intercalate within the lipid head groups to the extent of inducing interdigitation of lipid chains in the gel phase (BBA 731:97-108, 1983). Less interaction is seen for fluid phase lipids as used here but glycerol is not a passive inducer of fusion. Furthermore, Bearer et al. (ref. 10) suggest that glycerol induces lipidic particles and that such particles are not typically found in the fusion process in their model system. The critical point is that the glycerol-induced fusion of soy lipids may not represent natural lipid fusion and thus is not likely to expose the long sought lipid pore intermediate in natural fusion events. 