I think this software package will make a needed contribution to ecology. It meets are criterion for technical merit. However I believe the paper can still be substantially improved. There are two aspects which will benefit from revision. Main text Introduction: I think the introduction would benefit greatly from clear examples of the benefits and uses of mfSBA. It seems that the author should address both the benefits of multifractal analysis as well as where the SRS improves upon comparisons made by SAD's. It seems that the author has already made some publications that could address this, and it would be useful to have a brief explanation. In general I found the Introduction lacking specificity. For instance the author states in the first paragraph: "If they do apply, they reflect constraints in their organization that can provide clues about the underlying mechanism" What constraints? What underlying mechanism is the author referring to? How does it provide clues about this these mechanisms? I finished reading the introduction and was unclear both about what multifractal were, and why I would want to use them. Methods and conclusion I think the most important part here is a clear explanation of the quantities of interest that I can get from mfSBA, and how to interpret them. While parameters like slope and intercept seem obvious to most people now, I had no idea how to interpret q or D_q, or how I would use them. Furthermore the author focuses on the ability of this new method to make comparisons, stating: "The analysis of SRS using Dq adds a new dimension to the comparison of species spatial distributions, because it can be used to compare spatial distributions of all species at the same time and also the abundances are accounted." However, the comparison the author makes is very unclear. It would be nice to see a comparison where simulation conditions were clearly made, and perhaps even performed in R so users could tweak them. Figure 2 provides output for a comparison, but it's unclear how to interpret that comparison. In summary the main text would benefit from a clearer presentation of use cases, what parameters are being estimated, and how to understand those parameters in different scenarios, both simulated and real data. Software packaging. I think the average ecologist will find this package still rather intimidating. It requires the installation of secondary libraries as well as a C compiler. I wouldn't even know how to begin to install this on a windows machine. I would suggest the author create an R package with precompiled binary libraries for windows and mac. This combined with an improved manuscript will provide ecologists with a powerful tool.