I found this article interesting, useful for educators, well written and structured, and easy to follow. All of the raw data are made available, and the paper provides enough information to replicate the activity. The ideas presented here are innovative, and could have practical implications when applied in a low-income, off-the-grid context – indeed, I very much look forward to the follow-up study focusing on this topic. Before moving on, however, there are a few points that need to be clarified. Major comments Overall, I think that the framing of the study needs to be more explicit on what the authors wish to achieve and, crucially, what they hope to achieve here vs in a future study building on the current results. The abstract and introduction suggest a focus on developing the children’s awareness of energy sources and their impact on society and the environment, as well as changing their energy behaviour. Yet the project itself mostly deals with the practical and scientific side of making electricity from potatoes. If the children were involved in discussions on (the impact of) current energy sources, and/or what difference using potatoes could actually make, please elaborate on what specific topics were discussed, how they were discussed, and the final understanding obtained by the children. I think the paper ought to be clear throughout on what are the secondary aims (apart from building self-confidence) E.g. to (i) increase children’s scientific knowledge on the process of electricity production; (ii) serve as a pilot study for a bigger research programme, which intends to improve living conditions in off-grid areas; and/or (iii) develop children’s energy literacy. All three are worthwhile, and indeed all of them are mentioned here; however, not all of them are properly discussed, especially the energy literacy part. For example, the children are seemingly meant to realise the connection between generating electricity from potatoes and the wider socio-environmental implications of energy consumption and production. Understanding this complicated relationship likely would require different or additional learning experiences and follow-up evaluations. According to the results (Table 2), most children think that electricity in general is generated from potatoes (both before and after the activity). This statement somewhat worries me, as it seems to reveal a misunderstanding about how electricity is actually produced in our society. Is there any indication that the children understand the broader context? It would be helpful to have an idea of the characteristics of the participating children. How many boys vs girls participated? Are they mostly the children of academics, or do they come from underprivileged neighborhoods? What is their general socioeconomic background? Also, there ought to be some information on their previous experience. Is energy education compulsory in primary schools in Israel? Would the children have had previous experience doing experiments involving electricity, conductivity, etc.? Minor comments It is important to acknowledge in the introduction (e.g. bottom of p.2) that energy-related behaviours depend on external factors as well as internal/psychological ones, e.g. material culture and social norm. The latter are especially important when working with children. Educators thinking of running this project with their students might benefit from an idea of how much a complete kit costs. I think you mean technology “adoption”, rather than “adaptation”. The section on “Qualitative assessment of knowledge and attitude” is somewhat repetitive, as it mostly recalls information already presented in the tables. I think it could be significantly shortened by discussing only the main trends. Also, I wonder whether the qualitative aspect of this section could be enhanced via some quotes, and a more in-depth discussion of the participants’ opinions. 