This article contains some very interesting ideas and concepts. However, to this reviewer (and with the greatest respect to the authors), it tends to read perhaps as stream of consciousness writing rather than a considered scientific article. The authors show abundant enthusiasm in their writing, but this often appears to mask real scientific rigour. It is very difficult to identify a key hypothesis (or hypotheses), the structure of the sections seems to lack definition or focus, and it is sometimes almost impossible to understand what the main conclusions are from each. Furthermore, in a number of places, there seems to be a significant lack of scientific accuracy. For example, regarding some statements regarding the immune system, the authors do not clearly discriminate between somatic recombination (which applies to both T cell receptors and B cell receptors), somatic hypermutation (which applies only to the latter), hypervariable regions (which are present in both) and mutation ( per se ). As another example, in their discussion of atavism theory, the authors use the term tumour immunosuppression but appear to apply this to the tumour rather than the host, where it really belongs. Even the authors brief review of the evolution of the immune system seems to lack sufficient focus going from species to species during evolutionary time. There are also some rather vexing throwaway statements. As just one example, regarding cancer, the authors state The reason why cancer occurs at all in humans and animals thus remains a mystery. While it is certainly true that much remains unknown, the authors might usefully consider further Burnets concept of tumour surveillance, particularly in its more recent form comprising immunoediting, equilibrium and escape phases. It might also be valuable to reconsider, in relation to the immune systems apparent capacity to eliminate tumours whether or not the immune system actually helps to eliminate the infectious agents (e.g. viruses) that can cause tumorigenesis rather than actual or potentially malignant cells (and, on that point, it is perhaps a little surprising that there is no mention of generic and ). A further criticism is that the choice of immunological mechanisms under discussion sometimes feels rather random why, for example, do the authors specifically focus on Fc receptors rather than complement receptors, or C-reactive protein rather than the many other molecules that play similar or related roles? Finally, regarding the single diagram that is presented, it is completely unclear why the authors have chosen to illustrate an IL-2 [sic] feedback loop without any justification this seems to be over-simplistic in the extreme. Nevertheless, to return to the initial point: this article does appear to contain some very interesting material that would potentially be of value to readers of the journal. To do these the greatest justice, however, really does seem to require a very careful, focussed, and considered rewriting of the present text into a completely revised and possibly restructured article. 