The research article entitled “Extraction, purification, and activity of protease from the leaves of Moringa oleifera by Banik S, Biswas S and Karmakar S” explains the extraction, purification and activity of a protease that has been isolated from the leaves of the plant Moringa oleifera . The work is unique and can be of great applications since Moringa oleifera is reported to have various medicinal properties. This work may be recommended for indexing only after incorporation of a few changes listed as follows: Major Revision: Figure 2 – Lane numbers are missing; Marker positioning wrong; data of BSA+POOLED+PMSF and BSA+CRUDE+PMSF missing. Try to include these data for a better clarification to the readers. Figure 4 – What happens after pH 8, is not reflected in the graph? Then how can this be concluded as optimum pH? A range of pH 4 – 12 at least, would be better for any such conclusion. Figure 5 – The data points are very scattered. More data points must be included in the graph for proper conclusion, especially between 25C and 37C and 37C and 55C. Figure 7 – This is very confusing. The graph does not look like a Michaelis – Menten graph. Number of data points must be increased. K m is outside the substrate concentration range taken in the graph. K m is usually expressed in units of μM or mM and not mg/ml. The Lineweaver-Burk plot is also erroneous. If the linear line is extrapolated backwards, it will give a negative y-intercept, i.e., a negative 1/V max value. The V max values obtained by the authors can neither be correlated to the Michaelis – Menten graph nor to the Lineweaver-Burk plot. Then how is this value obtained? Minor Revision: Under the Methods section, in Preparation of crude extract and Purification of protein, the authors have used “Tris” buffer. It is usually written as Tris-HCl buffer. Moreover, under the two above mentioned sub-headings, somewhere the pH of the buffer is missing and elsewhere its concentration. Clear information should be provided. Under the Enzyme kinetics assay, it is written “keeping the enzyme concentration fixed”. The concentration used must be specified. Figure 1B – is a bit confusing. Marker should be preferably loaded into any of the side lanes. AS 40% pellet also has multiple bands, quite similar to the ladder. If possible, change the gel picture with proper loading arrangement and labelling. Figure 3 – The peak at 280 nm is quite blunt and the 260/280 ratio is close to 1, suggesting the presence of impurities. Purer fractions must be used. Figure 6 – There is no need to write “Moringa samples” in the X-axis title. Instead, it should be mentioned in the figure legend as “Samples from Moringa oleifera ”. Why is this paper cited as a reference as well? Can this be done? Details about the datasheet is provided in the manuscript itself, after conclusion. 