I thoroughly support the intent of this paper: to bring additional accuracy and rigour to biosecurity decision making. Specifically, the question of “when is eradication achieved” is an interesting and important one. It is not easy to address, however, but this paper makes an important contribution. Biosecurity aware economies have recognised the need for science-based reform of international practices around quarantines 1 . Current practice has largely withstood the test of time, but is based on simplistic assumptions. As this paper points out, better decisions might be made with the better biological data and population dynamic tools now available. This paper describes a well-designed comparison between an existing “rule of thumb” approach and a more biologically savvy modelling approach. The strengths and weaknesses of each method are alluded to and the reasons for misalignment explored. The authors suggest a balanced approach to utilise the strengths and minimise the weaknesses of each. On the whole, I support the study and its findings, with two caveats. First, some additional details are needed to fully understand what the agent-based simulations (ABS) are doing. Critical information is lacking on the temperature relationships and simulated management in the model. While this information would be available from the computer code provided, I am loathe to search through 423 MB of source code to find it. Without these details I cannot make a confident assessment of the study. Second, the study highlights the importance of low temperatures in fruit fly phenology, but glosses over some of the biologically relevant complications. More detailed comments on the paper sections are given below. Introduction The examples given for eradications are all historical, including the cited review paper 2 , which is not very optimistic about eradication as an effective tool for managing invasions. The science of eradication has advanced considerably in recent years and better understanding of invasive ecology, improved surveillance and control tools, and important advances in understanding and managing social expectations around eradication programmes mean that biosecurity agencies can now conduct such operations with much greater certainty, efficacy and efficiency. I suggest replacing the cited review paper 2 with Liebhold et al . (2016) 3 which gives a more up-to-date review of eradication science. I note that the quarantine guideline of three generations is not universally used. For example, Australia uses one generation plus thirty days. I am intrigued by the statement that predicting generation times into the future using normal temperatures is “mathematically flawed” and would like further clarification about what the authors mean. Methods It would be very useful to specify the developmental parameters used by the ABS, especially if they differ from those used for the day-degree approach. I note that the day degree parameters used in California differ considerably from other published values, which find a base development temperature of 8 to 10C 4 . No details are given about the assumed starting populations and age structures for ABS runs. This seems a critical detail. Also, what were the assumed management conditions? Without management the simulated populations would presumably increase (on average) and the fact that eradication was achieved in the simulations suggests that some sort of management must have been in place. Details of this are critical for understanding what the simulation results mean and how applicable they may be to different cases. In addition, I feel an important aspect of quarantine has been completely ignored – that of surveillance efficacy. The relevant international guidelines (ISPM 6, 9 and 26) specify that surveillance and monitoring are a key part of any programme aiming to prove freedom from a pest. For fruit flies, surveillance trapping is used to monitor eradications, with the quarantine period applying from the time of the last confirmed detection. Therefore surveillance effort is a critical factor in determining an appropriate quarantine length. If surveillance were perfect then no quarantine period would be needed because we would know that nothing is there. Conversely, if surveillance is poor then a large population might conceivably persist undetected for a very long time, necessitating a very long quarantine period indeed. I assume that the ABS simulated the surveillance practices used in California, but some details are needed. I believe that fruit fly surveillance practices differ between different parts of California – could this explain part of the differences in results between sites (Figure 2)? Results The ABS results were tallied as the simulated times after which 95% of simulated populations were eradicated. Depending on the situation, regulator might prefer greater (e.g. 99%) or lesser certainty. It would be useful to see an example of a population survival curve to understand how quarantine duration affects the risk of non-eradication. I suspect that such information would be very useful for biosecurity authorities in their decision-making. Figure 2 has a spelling mistake – “extripation”. Conclusions A key point in the paper is the hypothesis that cold snaps may help to knock out fruit fly populations more quickly than expected by the simple day-degree method. The implication is that the ABS method may enable significant cost savings in such situations by allowing a substantially shorter quarantine period. This is a valuable insight, but should be tempered by the fact that fruit flies may have special tricks to enable them to survive cold snaps. The torpor and cold survival thresholds for Queensland fruit fly, for example, are conditioned by previous exposure to low temperatures 5 6 , an effect that I suspect is not captured in the ABS. Therefore, I would urge some caution in applying the ABS recommendations in such situations. Over all, Medfly development and survival at relatively low temperatures seems to be a key factor in setting quarantine periods that start in late summer/autumn, and in understanding the different predictions from the day-degree and ABS methods. However linear day degree models, as used in both approaches, are known to have questionable validity near the predicted developmental threshold. Also (as noted by the authors) small changes in the threshold temperature parameter might cause relatively large changes in the predicted quarantine times. This is not a particular issue for this study, but is a common problem in the simulation of insect phenology, especially in temperate climates. Given the economic importance of fruit flies, better data and models for behavioural and physiological thresholds could be very useful for making better biosecurity decisions. 