The manuscript presents an interesting study in which the antimicrobial activity of three plant species Eurycoma longifolia Jack., Rennelia elliptica Korth. and Trivalvaria macrophylla miq. was investigated. Weakness of the manuscript Introduction Introduction part is very poor. The rationale of the need of comparative antimicrobial study of these plant species should have been elaborated. No literature about the microbial infections has been cited. Authors needs to add some information about the microbial infections and about the role of herbal plants in treating microbial infections. Authors must include the literature about the chief constituents present in these plant species. Authors reported that Pasak Bumi is a local plant in Kalimantan, Indonesia. Authors must include other geographical regions where this plant grows. Authors must include some information that why only Candida albicans yeast and Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus mutans, and Streptococcus sobrinus bacterial strains were taken for the study? Methods For identification of the phytoconstituents present in these plant species authors must have included the preliminary phytochemical screening, (a qualitative identification) or must have reported the literature on the phytochemical screening of these plants. Why 40% ethanol was used to prepare different concentrations of the plant extracts? In figure 1 authors have reported that 50 gram of sample powder was taken for further maceration with n-hexane. Is there any variations in the initial weight of the powder? Why symbol is added? Is there any standard deviation or SEM? Results The activity index (Fig. 2) shows very little difference in concentration 500 and 1000 g/well. As the concentration 1000 g/well is double of the 500 g/well so the difference in activity index should have been more. This suggests that something is wrong with the assays and/or with the presentation of the data. Authors need to analyze and discuss this point critically. Suggestion/corrections in addition to the above Grammatical errors/Corrections Eg. In conclusion The present study performed in vitro studies of antimicrobial properties of three different Pasak Bumi ( E. longifolia Jack, R. elliptica and T. macrophylla ) on oral pathogens which gave positive results and different degree of activity. The above statement needs to be revised “The present study performed in vitro studies…………? 