Title: To include Kenya Corresponding author contacts need to be indicated Abstract: Background: It needs to be indicated that circulating SPn serotypes are being investigated after the introduction of 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV10) in 2011. The methods need to be a summary of the techniques used in data collection. As it is written it appears to be copy pasted from the method section. Indicate number of children assessed. For instance: Materials: Two hundred and six children attending and not-attending in ……20-2009 were studied. Materials for study were pharyngeal swabs and sputum. Identification was performed using optochin disks, Quellung reaction,……agglutination on the glass, viewed under a phase contrast microscope and the sent to KEMRI- Kilifi for further confirmative identification tests. The conclusion seem alarming and need to suggest or indicate. Therefore Kenyan children receiving PCV-10 vaccine are not protected – Revise to something like:- This study highlights the importance of monitoring and evaluation to provide epidemiological information to determine the effectiveness of PCV10 in Kenya’s Public health services. Repeating ideas should be deleted - causing more deaths than any other infectious disease vs. kills more children than any other illness in the world. Introduction need to be shortened, preferably to three paragraphs. Methods: Were the children admitted or outpatient? All the source of equipment used and consumables need to be indicated, for instance incubator etc. The Research Ethics Committee that approved the study need to be indicated. Software used for calculation of %s need to be indicated? Results: Headings need to be introduced that are in agreement with the content. This will help the reader to when reading. Suggested possible headings include: Demography of the Study Participants Prevalence of SPn carriage status among PCV-10 vaccinated and unvaccinated children Prevalence of SPn carriage status by age – You probably have several age groups on this for instance 1, 2 -4 years, 4 – 5 years. Authors need to clarify on the following: How many pneumococcus serotypes were identified? Which serotype was most frequent? Can you please arrange them in a descending order? Discussion: Adequate in content. Consider serotype replacement to enrich your discussion. 