This is a well done comprehensive report of analyses performed by a distinguished team of investigators who studied mesothelioma survival in the NMVB. The information presented is certainly useful to the scientific community. Most NMVB cases are from the States of New York and Pennsylvania where the Authors note there was significant exposure to asbestos. Critiques: Mesotheliomas developing in carriers of germline mutations have significant improved survival (see Consensus Report Carbone M., Kanodia S., et al 1 ).The lack of information about genetics is a limiting factor that should be acknowledge and that likely influences the finding that young age is a predictor of prolonged survival as these mesothelioma characteristically occur in young patients.In short this issue should be discussed. The information about asbestos exposure is based on self reported history.This information is often unreliable, as patients who think to have been exposed may not have been exposed and vice versa (asbestos is invisible by the naked eye so it is impossible to be certain whether dust contains or does not contain asbestos fibers, unless the dust is studied at the microscope), as shown for example by comparing results of lung content analyses and self reported history of exposure: see, Carbone M. et al 2 .The lack of corroborating evidence, such as radiological analyses supporting exposure –about 75% of patients exposed to asbestos develop bilateral plaques, should also be acknowledged. Most recent studies report that presently most pleural mesotheliomas occur in asbestos exposed individuals, and that instead patients with peritoneal mesothelioma rarely report asbestos exposure (for example only 5/64 patients in a recent series by Richard Alexander. Lee M et al 3 . (What was the proportion of self reported asbestos exposure among patients with pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma? Introduction . Mesothelioma is associated with exposure to professional exposure to asbestos and to environmental exposure to various mineral fibers including asbestos. Clarify this issue, and define what asbestos is. See Baumann F., Buck BJ, et al 4 ; Baumann F et al 5 . Moreover, mesotheliomas develops in carriers of germline mutations of BAP1 (Carbone M., Kanodia S., JTO 2016 6 , and mutations of BAP1 may increase susceptibility to low doses of asbestos and other mineral fibers (Napolitano A., Pellegrini L., et al 7 ). These issues are important to understand the reasons of the current ongoing mesothelioma epidemic and also given the different prognosis and survival of mesotheliomas occurring in carriers of BAP1 mutations. Minor: Abstract conclusion last line…..treatment IN PERITONEAL MESOTHELIOMA is associated with improved survival…. Page 3, introduction, bottom, therapeutic options: ref 15 in the rapidly evolving field of mesothelioma therapy is rather old. Replace or add current reference: the most recent review on this topic is Mutti L., Peikert T., et al 8 . 