The authors present a study in which audience effects on male mating behaviour was analysed in several species of poeciliids (a family of livebearing freshwater fish) and related to mean sexual activity (used as a proxy for sperm competition risk) and aggressiveness. This is an attempt to study if sperm competition risk (SCR) can explain the occurrence of audience effects on male choice in this family. The rationale behind this is that males should adjust their mating behaviour by modulating, or even reversing, their initial mate choice in the presence of a rival. The change in male mate choice in the presence of another male has been mainly interpreted as a deceptive signal to lead competitors away from the preferred females, therefore lowering sperm competition risk. Given the complexity of factors (abiotic or biotic) that can contribute simultaneously to shape male mating decisions, explanations other than SCR (though not necessarily mutually exclusive) are also possible, although SCR is certainly likely to be important. Indeed, sperm competition is pervasive in poeciliids, and it is therefore likely that sperm competition is a major force in shaping the evolution of male mating strategies in this family. The hypothesis tested in this paper is that a higher sperm competition risk (SCR) should positively correlate with stronger audience effects across different species. Aggressiveness was also considered, as males could adjust their mate choice to avoid aggressive rivals. This is a well written paper, addressing an interesting topic in evolutionary biology. Unfortunately, as the study is only correlative and phylogeny was not accounted for, results can only suggest a general trend, but this can certainly set the stage for future work in this area.No data was collected or analysed to directly quantify SCR in the different species, but total sexual activity (measured in the initial test) was used as a proxy. Aggressiveness tests: The authors performed aggressiveness tests, controlling for a number of factors that can possibly confound interpretation of results, for example, choosing males from different tanks to prevent previously established dominance. However, would aggressiveness scores differ when males are tested in the presence of a female during these encounters? Indeed, two males may have a lot more reasons to exhibit aggressive behaviour when a potential partner is present. Male mate choice tests: In these tests the focal male and two females were free to interact. Methods are described in detail, but I wonder if this is the exact protocol used in all experiments. I am guessing that the method used is probably similar across experiments, but it seems unlikely to me that it is exactly as described here for all of them. Authors also exclude courtship from the sexual activity variable because this behaviour is not present in all species. However, courtship is an important component of sexual behaviour in some of the species considered and including this aspect of male behaviour may therefore change results. Main conclusions: The main finding that lead the authors to support the hypothesis “SCR is a driving force behind the evolution of this behaviour” is the positive correlation (depicted in fig 3e) between the intensity of sexual behaviour (proxy for SCR) recorded in the first test and the level (occurrence) of deceptive behaviour (the fraction of males that reverse their first choice, based on the first interaction with female, page 7). I would like to know how well the first sexual interaction reflects a male’s sexual choice in these species; is there any direct evidence? In guppies, for example, researchers have tested whether the time spent in front of a female during a binary dichotomous test is a good predictor of actual mating preference (Jeswiet Godin 2011). Are there any studies that show that first sexual interaction is a reliable sign of male sexual interest in most of the species considered here?