Specific comments for each question on the peer review form: 1. In terms of study design, what is the justification for "choosing a random sample" (page 3) instead of analysing all available data? Also, the authors mentioned that a power calculation was done, but the results of the power calculation was not presented. The authors implied their sample size is adequate but then mentioned that "small sample size" as one of the limitations (page 4). 2. In terms of details of methods and analysis, there are several issues that should be clarified. First, what are the justification for the inclusion and exclusion criteria, in particular 10% FEV1 decline as one of the inclusion criterion and chronic respiratory failure as an one of the exclusion criterion. Second, the authors claimed that "the continuous infusion protocol has been adopted in our institution since 2013", but "the major confounding factor is that many patients receive intermittent-infusion at the same time as the continuous-infusion protocol". Presumably this refers to beta-lactam antibiotics only. Also, presumably continuous infusion protocol was introduced in 2013 but beta-lactam may still be given via intermittent-infusion (i.e. continuous infusion was not blanketly applied). Is it not possible to restrict the analysis to people receiving only 1 type of beta-lactam as a sensitivity analysis to try understand the potential bias from the subgroup of participants that receive both intermittent and continuous beta-lactams? Third, if the 42 participants are only a subset of those eligible, it is worth including a "CONSORT diagram" (though this is not a RCT) to help readers understand the flow from all eligible participants to participants that were finally analysed. Fourth, what is the equation used to calculate % predicted FEV1? Fifth, the authors claimed that "the longer the duration of antibiotics, the slightly better the pulmonary function at the end of the treatment" but what was the analysis method used to determine the correlation between treatment duration and extent of FEV1 improvement? 3. In terms of statistical analysis, the authors "attempted to compare the difference in FEV1 % predicted between the two infusion protocols and for each individual visit". Given that a participant can have multiple courses of IV antibiotics, what is the method used to account for repeated measures within an individual? In the 'data analysis' subsection, only student t-test and chi-square test were mentioned and both these tests assume independence. Also, for the results, it is important to display the effect size and confidence intervals, not just the p-values. The authors claimed that FEV1 difference is not statistically significant with p-value 0.0049 (in the abstract and the text in page 3), yet p-value 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Is there a typo? 4. With regards to the source data, it would be helpful if the authors could include the key for the labels e.g. what are antibiotics Type 1 and Type 2? Also, labels such as Chest_PT and VEST were neither explained in the text nor elaborated in the data source file. 5. With regards to the conclusion drawn, it is crucial to report the difference (and confidence intervals) between group, otherwise readers are unable to judge whether there is any advantage at all favouring either the intermittent or continuous infusion group. It is also crucial to use the correct analysis method in order to justify the conclusion drawn. Other general comments: 1. The author stated that "our study aims to investigate the effect of continuous-infusion antibiotic therapy on pulmonary function". It seems more accurate to describe the study aim as to investigate the effect on FEV1 recovery post IV treatment. 2. Some of the sentences in the introductions and discussion may benefit from being re-phrased. For example, multidrug resistant organisms "may increase" the risk of treatment failure (introduction) and I think it is hyperbolic to say that continuous beta-lactam infusion "could revolutionize the management of CF". 