The research article entitled 'Protein disorder reduced in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to survive heat shock' by Vicedo, Rost and co-workers shows how Saccharomyces cerevisiae reduces protein disorder to survive heat shock. It constitutes an interesting example about the usage of bioinformatic techniques to analyze protein disorder and its implications at a whole proteome level. In the article, there is a comprehensive explanation of study design, methods and analysis. The conclusions are well explained and justified on the basis of the results. Consequently, the manuscript is recommended for approval. It is a good piece of science that meets the indexation requirements of F1000Research. However I have some comments that the authors may consider and/or answer. As far as I know except some rare exceptions the protein disorder is reduced as temperature increases, oppositely as happens with ordered proteins or protein regions. With increasing temperature, disordered proteins and regions tend to adopt a transitory structure. Commonly this transitory structure is necessary for proteins to perform its biological function. In other recent works that the authors have published have published (Reference 37 in the References section), they stated that "protein disorder appeared as a possible building block to bring about evolutionary changes such as the adaptation to different habitats" and in that sense seems that more disorder should imply a better response to heat shock. Thus is surprising for me that in response to heat there is a protein disorder reduction, whereas I expect a disorder increment. Why does it happens? Maybe the answer is so easy as that the disordered proteins do not help to "fight" against heat shock or as the authors said "...Some of these proteins with long disordered regions might not work correctly in heat...", but I am curious about that. Do you have any evidence or supported hypothesis to explain that? Regarding to authors statement "...Some of these proteins with long disordered regions might not work correctly in heat...", a plausible way to study that and obtain a more conclusive answer could be to perform a molecular simulation. Maybe a Replica Exchange Molecular Dynamics or Monte Carlo simulations could give a better understanding of what happens with these protein at high temperatures. 