 Abstract: The authors indicated in the results section that mortality rate was monotonically increasing for those aged 20-53.5 months but in the conclusion it is restricted to only those aged 53.5 months. Authors should revise that to reflect the findings as stated in the results Introduction: The fact Bangladesh achieved the millennium development goal 4 has been repeated in the first and second paragraphs of the manuscript. Please provide a reference to this statement ‘’ … it remains high in Bangladesh due to the high incidence of malnutrition and childhood diseases’’ Methods: The statement ‘’ i.e. the group data for children under five in Bangladesh as a whole and separately for rural and urban areas, are from Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) 2007’’. I think there is a word missing there. Perhaps are ‘’obtained’’ from the Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) 2007. The authors fitted a polynomial model explaining the number of people living at exact age x. The number of people living at the exact age group x is influenced by factors associated with their survival rate throughout the neonatal period. There are more critical factors such as multiple births, birth spacing, facility delivery, etc. that could influence the outcome measure of interest apart from age in a month. Authors should explain why these critical factors were omitted from the model. Can the addition of these key predictors improve the predictive power of the model? Authors conducted internal validation of the model using cross-validation which is good but they could have applied the developed model to a more recent Bangladesh DHS data to validate the model. This could have provided a more rigorous assessment of the predictive performance of the model. In addition, the could have estimated Root Mean Square Percentage Error (RMSPE), Brier Score, and Mean Absolute Percentage Error to assess the predictive performance of the model especially when we have a typical count outcome. Results: There should be a legend on the graph explaining which graph represents smoothed and predicted for readers who are not statistically inclined. This should go for all the graphs. However, for policy decisions, it could have been interesting to investigate the pattern of the outcome among the wealth quintile as well. I mean conduct similar analysis among various socioeconomic groups. 