Technological advancement over the past two decades has generated a scientific landscape that has shifted from gene-centric to genome-centric research. As consequence, we are facing an ever-increasing amount of (functional) genomics datasets in publicly available repositories, which is in principle an extremely rich asset of knowledge. Indeed, any research project should start with an analysis of the existing data and analyzed the obtained results in view of this - sometimes hidden - information. However, the main caveats are presently (i) the availability of simple user-friendly computational biology tools to query, analyze and integrate the existing data and (ii) the absence of quality assessment indicators attached to each data set. The author of the present article has addressed the first issue for assays involving chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing of the co-IPed DNA (ChIP-seq). This is widely used for mapping the cistromes of transcription factors (TFs) and other chromatin binding factors and for monitoring DNA and functional histone modifications along the genome. He describes the "ChIPdig" tool, an R pipeline for ChIP-seq data analysis from the alignment of sequenced reads to the differential analysis of multiple datasets. The goal of this pipeline is fully justified, namely to provide users with a single pipeline that covers most of the required analytical steps without the need of jumping between tools available in different programming languages. Unfortunately, there are a number of issues which need to be addressed in order to make this tool attractive compared to others. Conceptual issues. The author has assembled a pipeline which uses other R packages (described in 'Implementation') but does not consider their limitations. Peak calling. ChIP-seq patterns reflect the specifics of TF binding and DNA/histone modifications, which can be highly variable. in simple terms ChIP-seq signals acn be 'sharp' (e.g., TFs, H3K4me3) or broad (e.g., H3K27me3, H3K36me3). The various existing peak callers have very different characteristics and cannot be used without considering these aspects 1 . Normalization. ChIPdig uses the simplest way of normalizing data sets according to total mapped reads (TMRs). This is not state-of-the-art and can lead to problems when important differences exist between TMRs of different datasets. Thus, methodologies like quantile normalization perform significantly better 2 , 3 . Comparison of H3K4me3 and H3K36me3 (Figs. 5, 6). While this is an illustrative example based on current knowledge in the field, the data comparison per se can be criticized, as very different types of signals (sharp H3K4me3 and broad H3K36me3 signals) are compared using the same peak caller and sub-optimal normalization. In Fig. 5 it appears that the control (input?) is simply subtracted (after normalization?) resulting in negative and positive (peaks/landscapes). It thus appears that the variation between the input and H3K36me3 signal intensity profiles is as high as the signals shown for H3K36me3. In Fig. 6 the value of these displays for functional interpretation is not clear. ChIP-seq artifacts. The author addresses correctly the potential artifacts that can be obtained for a multiplicity of reasons in ChIP-seq experiments. Unfortunately, however, he does not offer solutions in the context of the ChIPdig pipeline. This is one of the most important issues concerning ChIP-seq data sets, as significant number of datasets cannot be used due to quality issues and very few tools incorporate quality assessment (e.g. qcGenomics; http://www.ngs-qc.org/qcgenomics/). Challenging examples. The examples that have been chosen to illustrate ChIPdig are the 'easy' ones, where good antibodies and thus, clean data sets exist. However, ChIPdig should be challenged with more 'difficult' TFs/histone marks and 'kinky' input profiles. Technical issues. The main hindrance for non-bioinformatics trained scientists to exploit existing databases is the need for time-consuming data download and re-formatting. Currently only the qcGenomics database contains pre-computed data sets allowing for immediate access. Computational time. In addition to downloading datasets for analysis, users face as main technical disadvantages of ChIPdig the time for computation. As stated by the authors, alignment of 10 million reads take 2.5 hrs. This is for the C. elegans genome, so it would be far too long for the human genome. Alignment. It appears that the user has no choice on the alignment parameters and multiple alignment tools. Organisms. A description is missing in the documentation whether ChIPdig is currently only available for C. elegans or whether it can be used for other reference genomes. In the present drop-down box, only C. elegans is available. Memory requirements. Trials with an 8Gb PC to use human ChIP-seq raw fastq files for trimming, etc. gave error messages and the program aborted. 