This manuscript describes the isolation and preliminary characterization of actinobacteria strains producing enzymes with potential biotechnological applications. However, the experimental design chosen by the authors, and the conclusions drawn from some results rise some concerns. The major weakness of this work is that the assays used to investigate the enzymatic potential of the isolated actinobacteria are not fully convincing. Especially for what concerns cellulase activity, none of the strains isolated by the authors was positive to this test. The authors discuss that this unexpected result could be due to unsuitable culture conditions, such as pH. This is also the case for protease and catalase activities, that were found just in few isolates, and for which negative results could be biased by the experimental method. Authors should demonstrate that each enzymatic assay works in their hands, by using bacterial strains previously characterized for their ability and inability to produce the tested enzymes as positive and negative controls, respectively. Moreover, other experimental settings ( e.g. , cultures with different pH) should be considered to verify enzymatic activities in the isolates. The authors state that enzymatic activity (EA) was evaluated as follow: diameter of zone of tested substrate hydrolysis - diameter of colony in cm. Based on this calculation, the EA was estimated as excellent (EA2), good (EA2), or poor (EA1). Besides noticing that EA2 is not correct (it should be 12), this values are not mentioned anymore along the manuscript, where the detected activity is usually defined as strong activity, moderate activity or low activity. In addition, in Table 1 the enzymatic activity is represented with + or symbols. Authors should choose one adjective/word to define a certain interval of activity and use always the same along the whole text. The measurement of a diameter (see above) can be acceptable as a semi-quantitative method allowing the comparison of a certain enzymatic activity among different strains. However, since catalase activity was detected by visualizing oxygen bubbles formation, it is not clear how the authors measured and compared this enzymatic activity. Taxonomic allocation of the isolated strains should be confirmed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Since the main aim of this article is to explore the enzymatic potential of newly isolated actinobacteria, the authors were expected to use protocols allowing maximal diversity of the isolated species. The authors discuss that in previous studies sample pre-treatment with specific agents has been successfully used to promote spore germination and to allow isolation of most actinobacteria inhabiting the soil, so it is not clear why they did not consider this possibility for the experimental plan. Authors state that the differences observed among the genera of actinobacteria identified in both sites studied, may be due to the different human activities, including construction in such area. These differences may also indicate that the methods proposed and employed for actinobacteria isolation may not the suitable for site 1,... . In order to support this piece of discussion, authors should provide more information about the characteristics of the two isolation sites ( e.g. , anthropic impact, type of soil, type of vegetation). Were these sites similar or different with respect to one or more features? How these similarities/differences could be correlated to the results? 