This review article focuses on the methyltransferase activity of the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) polymerase. The review covers the role of the methyltransferase in mRNA transcription and draws parallels with related viruses to describe the features of the methyltransferase. It also makes the case that inhibition of the methyltransferase activity could have a dual impact on the virus by inhibiting viral gene expression and by eliciting innate immune responses. There are a few errors that should be addressed to make the article scientifically sound. These are listed below: Throughout the review, the authors refer to RSV and HMPV as being members of the family Paramyxoviridae. This is no longer the case, they are now in a new family called Pneumoviridae. In addition, RSV is now formally termed human orthopneumovirus. The text should be revised to accommodate the new family name. The authors also refer to the RSV mRNAs being modified by guanylylation, however studies by Ogino and coworkers with VSV and other rhabdoviruses have shown that the mRNA cap is added by a GDP polyribonucleotidyltransferase activity, rather than by guanylylation. Given the similarities within their capping domains, it is highly likely that RSV uses the same mechanism as the rhabdoviruses (although this has not yet been shown). Therefore, the text should be modified to remove reference to guanylyltransferase activity and a sentence or two added to explain the distinctive capping mechanism that is likely used. Likewise, the phrase "This universal process of capping and methylation..." should be rewritten as the processes are distinct, even though the end products are chemically equivalent. In the description of the polymerase, the authors refer to 6 conserved domains. It is more appropriate to use the term "regions" rather than "domains". In the section titled "Genetic support for RSV MTase role in viral replication" there is reference to work performed on the metapneumovirus polymerase, but this work is not cited (it is cited elsewhere in the article). The work from the Li lab should be cited here. 