In this study, the authors generated a liver-specific double knockout of the regulatory and catalytic subunit of Class 1A PI3K. Previously, single inactivation of either the catalytic art regulatory subunits had been shown to result in opposite effects on insulin resistance vs sensitivity. The authors demonstrated through in vivo studies in male mice (129Sv-C57Bl/6) that defects in glucose tolerance as well as changes in liver, fat and body weight occur upon deletion of both the regulatory PIK3R1(p85α) and catalytic subunit PIK3CA (p110α) but retained normal production of gulches from the liver. Specific Comments: Figure 1E (page 6): the authors state (on page 5) that low levels of p85β were detected in the L-DKO mice compared to controls. This was indirectly demonstrated through the use of a pan-p85 antibody that detects both p85α and p85β. Mice with liver-specific deletion of p85α on a p85β null background have been previously characterized (Taniguchi et al. ). There, the overall levels of p85β detected utilizing a pan p85β antibody in a lysate derived from a liver that was wild type for p85β and null for p85α was minimal. Therefore, it is possible that the overall protein content reduction observed using the pan p85 antibody in Figure1E may be explained by the deletion of p85α from the liver, and may not be due to any change in p85β levels. To directly compare wild type and L-DKO samples, a specific p85β antibody should be used. Loading controls should also be provided for some panels in Figure 1. Figure 1F to show impaired activation, total AKT blots should be provided (similar to Figure 3E). Total levels of p70S6K also need to be measured. In Figure 1G, the authors state that although p110β levels are reduced, the amount associated with IRS-1 is unchanged. However, due to the variability across samples in both control and L-DKO, and the overall poor quality of the blot, these conclusions don’t inspire confidence. These data should be quantitated. Additionally, the p110β band on the last lane appears to run slightly higher compared to the rest of the bands and the control raising possible questions over the specificity of the p110β antibody used for IP. Are similar results observed using a distinct antibody? In line with the comments in point 1, the authors state that the overall amount of p85β associated IRS-1 does not change. This conclusion requires use of a p85β selective antibody. As noted by the authors, there is known complexity between the structural roles of the various PI3K subunits and isoforms, with effects on protein stability and access to IRS-1 binding sites. There appears, as noted above, to be significant variation in levels of the untargetted subunits across the 2 typically shown animals (e.g. Figure 1G). If other animals were measured, a composite of the levels (e.g. n=4) would provide much better insight into the levels (if any) of compensation, allowing a clearer picture of what may be underlying the glucose metabolic effects. It is also possible there was downstream adaptation given the IRS-1 is negatively regulated by PI3K signaling (and appears somewhat higher in the DKOs (Figure 1G). For the PI3K lipid kinase activity measurements (chromatographic separation, Figure 2 shows the quantitation), how were the separate plates normalized? Minor grammatical error: Page 11, second paragraph line 10- “and” is added in error. *Taniguchi, C. M., T. Kondo, M. Sajan, J. Luo, R. Bronson, T. Asano, R. Farese, L. C. Cantley and C. R. Kahn (2006). "Divergent regulation of hepatic glucose and lipid metabolism by phosphoinositide 3-kinase via Akt and PKClambda/zeta." Cell Metab 3 (5): 343-353. 