 General Comments: This study attempts to undo the WHO recommendation, and the huge body of evidence that supports early ART initiation in all HIV infected patients irrespective of CD4 count or co-infection status. The analysis presents data from a variety of sources in a conceptual framework of a decision analysis model. Whether the model incorporated the best available evidence is extremely doubtful, as the variety of sources collated is limited and the information drawn was not described in enough detail. The cost-effectiveness analysis itself is over simplified and may not be of particular use to policy- or decision-makers. The scientific merits are lacking in this particular piece of work and a lack of transparency in reporting has been noted. The extent of this study’s ability to add value to existing scientific literature is debatable. Moreover, substantial language editing is required to enable an ease of understanding by readers. There is direct repetition of information provided by the authors across multiple adjacent sections. For example, the use of “probabilities derived from published literature”. Numerous grammatical errors were observed, largely involving the confusion of single and plural terms – “literatures” instead of “literature”. Critique of Scientific Merit Introduction While the research question and the economic importance thereof is clearly stated, the relevance of the research question is ambiguous, given that recommendations of early ART administration regardless of co-infection status, or CD4 cell count, were issued by the WHO in September 2015, (WHO, 2015). Furthermore, the question of risk vs benefit of ART timing in TB therapy has also previously been addressed. These recommendations have been ignored, hence this study should therefore have not been conducted on those grounds. It should be mentioned in the introduction and abstract that the cost-effectiveness analysis is based on the synthesis and meta-analysis of other studies. This information only arises on page 4 of the article. The alternative interventions were not described in sufficient detail to enable the reader to assess the relevance of all setting specific interventions. More specifically, early and late ART initiation strategies were not described in time units. The authors failed to define early ART initiation and delayed ART initiation. Study design The use of economic evaluation, namely cost-utility analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis have not been substantiated. The authors need to provide a clear justification of why they have chosen both economic evaluation methods, in the context of the research question stated. Decision model The use of a decision analytic model is clearly articulated but perhaps incorrectly substantiated: The authors have justified the use of decision tree model instead of a Markov model on the rationale that the outcome of interest can be assessed within a 12-week period – this is questionable. The actual decision tree (Figure 1) is too cluttered, cannot be interpreted on face value and there is no referring explanation within the text. Model perspective The viewpoint of the analysis is not entirely clear – the authors refer to a “health-care’s payer perspective” (page 4) this could be interpreted as either the health care provider or the health care user. Their use of this perspective also needs to be substantiated within the context of the analysis. Model time horizon The choice of time horizon is dubious –as the treatment of latent TB may vary, HIV-TB coinfected patients may be infected with either latent or active TB, and patients with resistant or extrapulmonary manifestations of TB may require lengthier treatment. Time horizon should account for the minimum and the lengthiest duration of treatment. Setting and population The method of synthesis or meta-analysis of evidence is not described in enough detail. For example, only a brief description of the search strategy was mentioned while the criteria for inclusion of studies in the overview was omitted (page 4). Model input parameters The authors did not provide sufficient detail regarding the model used within the study. The actual resources costed and quantities thereof are not mentioned. Key parameters of the model are mentioned but not discussed at length or justified. For example, why were those parameters included in the model? What does ART treatment cost comprise – are overheads and personnel costs included or are these estimations limited to the cost of drugs? Did all authors included in the cost estimation (Table 1) use similar methodology to calculate these costs? If not, this would impact on the usefulness of the analysis. The country settings of these published studies used to collect evidence is not mentioned, yet should be. Even though there was no need for discounting due to the time horizon being less than a year, this should have been made explicit within the text. Model output The time horizon of the model was too short to accurately observe the primary outcome measure of reduced mortality, and thus both time horizon and primary outcome measure are inappropriate. Assumptions Once again, the assumption that TB treatment is completed within a three-month period is incomplete and inaccurate (refer to comments above). Their assumption of the cost of ART treatment is not well articulated, neither is it justified or at least referenced within the text. The same can be said for the assumption of additional costs of dying patients. It is completely unclear from the text how these assumptions (page 4) were derived or the basis of their foundation. What evidence supports these assumptions or derivations? Sensitivity analyses/Probability sensitivity analysis No mention was made of the actual variables chosen for the sensitivity analysis, the justification of the choice, and the ranges over which they were varied. There is no conclusion to the sensitivity analysis regarding the robustness of their results. Results It is not clear how the estimates displayed by Table 1 generate the results in Table 2 – again touching on the notion of an incomplete description of the model used. The results section fails to clearly differentiate between the results of the cost utility analysis and those of the cost-effectiveness analysis. Discussion and conclusions While the answer to the original research question has been answered, the presentation of results is too simplistic and has not been accompanied by appropriate qualifications and reservations. The authors’ acknowledgement of study limitations has not been clearly set out. The authors discuss items that should have been addressed in previous sections first, and therefore only seen by the reader at the end of the text: the recommended time of ART initiation by WHO; the presumption of the use of general costs by the literature base which provided inputs for the model. Based on the methodological and structural issues raised above, the discussion and conclusions drawn may not carry much weight. Conclusion This study simply brought together data from a variety of sources into the conceptual framework of a decision analysis model. Whether the model incorporated the best available evidence is unsure, as the variety of sources collated was quite limited and the information drawn was not described in enough detail. The cost-effectiveness analysis itself is over simplified and may not be of particular use to policy- or decision-makers. The scientific merits are lacking in this particular piece of work and a lack of transparency in reporting has been noted. The extent of this study’s ability to add value to the surrounding literature base is debatable. Moreover, substantial language editing is required to enable an ease of understanding by readers. 