This is an interesting manuscript describing the antimicrobial activity of tree species plants known as Pasak Bumi ( Eurycoma longifolia , Rennelia elliptica and Trivalvaria macrophylla ) against bacteria: Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus sobrinus and yeast: Candida albicans . The study proved that Pasak Bumi not only can be used as an aphrodisiac, but also as a postpartum treatment for fever and malaria. It also has the potential as an antimicrobial agent. The paper is well written and structured, but there are some suggestions as follows: Introduction: In line 8, clarify the references of research on Pasak Bumi that have been done (references number 8, 9, 10 and 11). In line 11 the authors said that there is no research on R. elliptica yet. This is not in accordance with what is written on the Discussion line 5-9 which states that there were studies on the antimicrobial activity of R. elliptica against C. albicans and S. aureus . So, it should be explained in the Introduction that there were antimicrobial studies on R. elliptica as well as E. longifolia . Methods: The authors used 760 nm wavelengths on the spectrometer in determining phenol content (used the Folin-Ciocalteu method), what is the reason for the use of these wavelengths? Do you use the results of other research or do you have your own tests? We recommend that you mention the basis used. Based on several studies there were also 750 nm (Rollando and Monica, 2018 3 ) or 765 nm (Pourmorad et al. , 2006 4 ) used. It is not mentioned how long the maceration process was carried out for. We recommend that you write down how long the maceration process was for each solution (n-hexana, ethyl acetate and ethanol). In determining the total phenol content, what DMSO stands for should be stated. Is it dimethyl sulfoxide? Discussion: The phenol component is thought to be a component that is responsible for antimicrobial properties. Although, the result showed that T. macrophylla contains higher phenol than E. longifolia but did not show higher antimicrobial activity. For this reason, it is better to find out its chemical composition to determine the components that affect antimicrobial activity. 