In the work of Velijkovic et al. , in silico methods were used with the aim of identifying inhibitors of Ebola virus infection. Particularly, authors focused their investigation on approved and experimental drugs and proposed ibuprofen as a candidate for prevention and treatment of Ebola virus. It is well known that Ebola virus represents an international health emergency and that there is an urgent need for therapeutics and prophylactic drugs. In the present manuscript, authors applied a previously described and well-established criterion, based on EIIP and AQVN calculation, to select ibuprofen as the best candidate for Ebola virus disease treatment. Moreover, a mechanism of action consisting on GP1 inhibition has been proposed. It is the opinion of the present referee that some minor issues should be fixed before the manuscript may be considered as acceptable for indexation: Since molecular docking of ibuprofen was performed against the putative target GP1, it would be important to report the predicted binding energy (in kcal/mol) or score, and to compare this value with estimated or experimental affinity of reference GP1 ligands. Moreover, in a repurposing perspective, it would be interesting if authors could comment on the approximated dosage of ibuprofen they expect for providing anti-Ebola activity. Ibuprofen has a serum half-life of 1.8 to 2.0 hours. Did authors consider this aspect when claiming that ibuprofen could be also administered to patients to prevent Ebola virus disease. Liver and gastrointestinal tissues are among the most injured by Ebola virus infection. Moreover, it is well known that ibuprofen can cause serious gastrointestinal toxicity and should be used with caution in person with coagulation defects. Did authors considered ibuprofen side effects in the context of Ebola infection treatment? Following the question 1., a comment on the expected dosage would help to clarify most of these issues. It is not clear how ibuprofen can alleviate the symptoms of Ebola virus disease, also considering the proposed mechanism of action. 