This elegant analysis aims to estimate direct healthcare costs in Ontario associated with four adverse health behaviours, the change in direct health care costs associated with these health behaviours over time and the direct healthcare costs associated with low socioeconomic position. This is an extremely valuable endeavour; clarifying the economic cost associated with health behaviour risk factors and lower socioeconomic status assists decision makers in prioritising public health strategies focussed on these domains. The introduction provides a thoughtful background to the study, the definition of the behavioural risk factors (Table 1) and representativeness of the cohort (Table 2) are clearly outlined and the discussion of the study limitations is excellent. However, some additional details and minor amendments would be useful: The analysis relates to publicly-funded health care costs in Ontario but as an international reader, it would be helpful to get a brief background of the structure of health system in Canada, and any aspects that are unique to Ontario. In particular, what proportion of healthcare is delivered in the private health sector? Related to point 1), how generalisable are the findings to Canada as a whole and other countries? The descriptions of the public health care spending data considered (on page 4) and the linkage to person-level health care costs (outlined in the Model development section beginning on page 4) are very clear, but the incorporation of the costs to operate the health system into the modelling process needs some further explanation. Are these non-person level costs considered in the MOHLTC costing perspective developed for Ontario health administrative data that is mentioned at the top of page 5? Also, fifteen models have been developed (five per sex for each of the three identified health care sectors) so how have the expenditures associated with the ‘Other” category mentioned on page 4 been considered in the analysis? In the first paragraph of the section entitled “Sensitivity analysis”, is the explanation of the stepwise model approach describing something different to the description of the model building process detailed on page 5? If not, then I would delete the latter and just leave the last sentence that mentions that models 1 and 5 were used as upper and lower bounds. Furthermore, I would move the information that the primary attribution models were assumed to provide the most accurate estimate of attributable burden of adverse health behaviours to the description on page 5. It would be good to briefly outline the rationale for using a four year period of follow-up on page 5 where this is first mentioned. Also, the titles of tables A-5 to A-8 in the supplementary data state that a five year period between 2004 and 2013 was analysed so these should either be corrected if they are typos or further detail provided in the sensitivity analysis section of the methods. Results are presented in Figure 4 for health care costs attributable to low socioeconomic position but there is no corresponding definition of low socioeconomic position in the methods or results. Minor amendments: In the methods section of the abstract, it would be helpful to add that the unlinked, cross-sectional CCHS samples for each year from 2004 to 2013 were Ontario samples only. The sentence in the results section of the abstract beginning “Taken together, health behaviours…” would be more accurate if stated as “Taken together, these four adverse health behaviours and low socioeconomic position were associated with 34% ….”. Similarly, the conclusion of the abstract and other sentences similarly worded throughout the paper as well as the labels assigned to Figure 4 would benefit from being reworded to something like “adverse health behaviours” and “low socioeconomic position”. In the results section describing the sensitivity analyses, it would be helpful to the reader to include the corresponding table numbers in the supplementary data. The latter part of the sentence in the discussion on page 12 beginning “Fifth, “other” health care costs…” should read ‘are not included in our health care cost data…’ 