 “Therapy for acute basilar artery occlusion: a systematic review and meta-analysis” Background: Basilar artery stroke is most commonly caused by atherothrombosis and cardio embolism. The clinical manifestations of basilar artery occlusive disease vary according to the site and nature of vascular compromise. Pertinent clinical profiles pertaining to the topic and the discussion include: 1) proximal and middle basilar artery occlusive disease, frequently of atherosclerotic origin accounting for unilateral or bilateral pontine dysfunction, and less often cerebellar, midbrain, occipital, or mesial temporal lobe ischemia; 2) distal basilar artery occlusion ("top of the basilar syndrome"), frequently of embolic origin and accounting for signs of midbrain and thalamic ischemia, occipital and mesial temporal lobe ischemia, or both. The authors performed a systematic review and meta-analysis comparing three methods of recanalization for acute basilar artery occlusion. The authors should be commended for tackling a difficult topic. Questions and Comments: Title: Identified as a systematic review and meta-analysis. Abstract : Consider adding one-two sentences about background/significance/context of basilar artery occlusion. The purpose and objective is made clear. Would clarify what databases are used, study selection criteria, interventions compared, data extraction method (i.e. PRISMA) all in the methodology portion of the abstract. Results are satisfactory. In the limitations section, consider adding a comment about heterogeneity. This is well described in the discussion, but would add something in the abstract. Introduction: Describes the importance that the meta-analyses adds to the current literature – no comments. Natural History of Disease: No comments. Methodology: Search Strategy: Why was only PubMed used? We would recommend cross referencing other data-bases (SCOPUS, Google Scholar, COCHRANE). Were non-English studies included? We would recommend making an explicit statement regarding this detail. Data extraction and Statistical Analyses: No comments. Excellent detail. Results: We appreciate that results are not in both tabular and text form. Discussion: Endovascular thrombectomy versus other approaches: We would expand as much as possible on the last sentence – confounding by virtue of “thrombus volume, location and length, and presence of collateral circulation. This is a majo r source of confounding when comparing a thrombolysis responder versus non-responder. Consider the following references: Mehta et al., (2012 1 ), Alemseged et al., (2017 2 ) and Goyal et al., (2016 3 ). In the above meta-analyses by Goyal et al. (2016 3 ), consider commenting on the Forest Plot in Figure 2. No subgroup effect of alteplase, but also no evidence of effect modification. This supports your paper’s conclusion. Would re-search the literature for updates in this arena, as it would greatly add biological plausibility to your clinical conclusion. Factors affecting outcome: No comments Assessment of heterogeneity: No comments. Limitations: No comments. Overall, this is an excellent paper. We suggest from a methodology standpoint to stay as close to PRISMA guidelines as possible. Additionally, we suggest expanding on sources of confounding when comparing recanalization therapies. Jos Biller, MD, FACP, FAAN, FANA, FAHA Ravi Garg, MD 