The authors describe a publicly accessible database SkateBase, a public site for the little skate genome project. This paper is well written, and I have just a few comments and suggestions: Why was the little skate picked for genome size? Is it small and manageable? Is it a typical size compared to other chondrichthyans? Page 3, 1 st column: change compliance with fishing quotas to maintain compliance with fishing quotas. Page 3, 2 nd column: Heterodontiformes is misspelled (Heterdontiformes). Page 3, 2 nd column: Lamniformes is misspelled (Lamniormes). Page 3, under Existing resources I suggest including Chimaeriformes here as well. Page 7: Heterodontus is misspelled ( Heterdontus ). Page 8: species name for hagfish should be burgeri (not burger ). Page 8: The last three sentences under the Protein databases section can be incorporated into the legend for Figure 4. Page 8: bichir is misspelled (birchir). Page 8: change SkateBase data is linked to SkateBase data are linked and SkateBase data includes to SkateBase data include. Page 19, 1 st column: change this data to these data. Figures and Tables: In the figure 1 legend most of this information is stated in the text. I suggest keeping the sentence: The distribution of chondrichthyan species in each of the 14 orders is shown relative to the total number of species, genera and families for the clade. I also suggest explaining the figure in a little more detail. What do the numbers mean? Do the colors represent anything? Figure 2 legend: should not be italicized. Table 1: What do the numbers in the columns mean? Are these numbers of entries? Table 2: Contigs for L. erinacea is 2,62,265. Also, under N50, change 1466 to 1,466. Figure 4: It is difficult to tell apart colors for the following pairs: ​ Squatiniformes and Carcharhiniformes Lamniformes and Myliobatiformes Chimaeriformes and Rajiiformes This can be rectified by using black, white and yellow for three of the above orders in the figure. Figure 5 legend: I suggest changing Four important fields in the output should be examined carefully to interpret the alignments and determine which returned alignment best represents the skate ortholog to SOCS6. First, the alignment score, E-value, alignment length and percent identity can be used to interpret the overall alignment significance. to Four important fields in the output should be examined carefully to interpret the alignments: the alignment score, E-value, alignment length and percent identity. 