The study described in the manuscript authored by Makanda et al. describes the genetic diversity of mosquitoes captured in three regions in Kenya using the mitochondrial CO1 gene. They amplified a part of CO1 by PCR and sequenced the amplicon. Their analysis includes phylogenetic clustering of each CO1 haplotype with already registered sequence entries in Genbank and calculation of some basic population genetic parameters such as nucleotide diversity (Pi) and haplotype gene diversity (Hd). The main discovery and conclusions they have drawn out from the results were “A potentially novel Anopheles haplotype MK300230 was identified in Kilifi population.” “The first molecular characterization of Aedes cumminsii in Kenya” “higher diversity of Anopheles haplotypes in the Kisumu population, having detected Anopheles gambiae and Anopheles funestus ” However, there are doubtful points at each finding they are claiming in this manuscript. Many of those problems seem to stem from species identification merely by sequence without leaving insect specimens for retrospective morphological assessment (they used the whole body of insects for DNA extraction, according to the manuscript). Because of this, it would be extremely difficult to address the concerns I will describe below. About the “A potentially novel Anopheles haplotype MK300230” In the phylogenetic tree in Fig 3, the haplotype MK300230 locates outside of the known Anopheles group clade. This is very strange and interesting if that insect individual actually possessed morphological characters that look like Anopheles . Then I queried the sequence of MK300230 to GenBank database by blastn search and I found two notable hits, KY831299.1 (99% identical for 588 bp) and JN298693.1 (97% identical for 658 bp) both of which were registered as sequences obtained from some species of Tipuloidea. Unfortunately, MK300230 would not be a sequence for Anopheles or even not for a mosquito species. Probably, what the authors have actually captured was a kind of crane flies, though no clue to confirm it remains because the whole specimens have gone for DNA extraction. “The first molecular characterization of Aedes cumminsii in Kenya” The claim that the insect represented by MK300225 belongs Aedes cumminsii is difficult to accept from the phylogenetic tree in Fig 2; there is only one reference sequence for Aedes cumminsii (MG242484). Even if MG242484 was the closest sequence entry to MK30025 in current database, it is a dangerous leap to conclude those two sequences are “haplotypes of same species”. With a similar reason, assigning MK300227 and MK300228 to Aedes aegypti in the Fig 2 and MK300247 to Culex pipiens in Fig 4 are also problematic because they are not clustered with reference sequences of each corresponding species at least in those figures. Because of those issues with ambiguous species assignment of each haplotype sequences, I can not consider the calculated population genetic parameters as valid. Utilizing DNA sequence for taxonomical identification requires extreme care for the selection of reference sequences to be used. Sadly, the description of species associated with DNA sequences exiting in GenBank database is not always correct, but they are based on various levels of evidence. If one classifies his/her sequence merely based on similarity to a sequence that has a wrong species description and registered this new sequence with a wrong species assignment, this entry can be another source of another false finding by another researcher. At least, the authors should correct the ORGANISM section of MK300230 entry in GenBank which is now saying “Anopheles splendidus”. Preserving specimens is important to avoid many of those pitfalls. For mosquito, there are some useful method like NaOH crude extraction (e.g. Lars Rudbeck Jrgen Dissing, 1998, BioTequniques 25 (4)), which enable preparing DNA template for PCR from a single leg with only cheap cost.The study described in the manuscript authored by Makanda et al described genetic diversity of mosquitoes captured in three regions in Kenya using mitochondrial CO1 gene. They amplified a part of CO1 by PCR and sequenced the amplicon. Their analysis includes phylogenetic clustering of each CO1 haplotype with already registered sequence entries in genbank and calculation of some basic population genetic parameters such as nucleotide diversity (Pi) and haplotype gene diversity (Hd). The main discovery and conclusions they have drawn out from the results were… “A potentially novel Anopheles haplotype MK300230 was identified in Kilifi population.” “The first molecular characterization of Aedes cumminsii in Kenya” “higher diversity of Anopheles haplotypes in the Kisumu population, having detected Anopheles gambiae and Anopheles funestus ” However, there are doubtful points at each finding they are claiming in this manuscript. Many of those problems seem to stem on identification of species merely by sequence without leaving insect specimens for retrospective morphological assessment (they used whole body for DNA extraction according to the manuscript). Because of this, it would be extremely difficult to address the concerns I will describe below. About the “A potentially novel Anopheles haplotype MK300230” In the phylogenetic tree in Fig 3, the haplotype MK300230 locates outside of the known Anopheles group clade. This is very strange and interesting if that insect individual actually possessed morphological characters which looks like Anopheles . Then I queried the sequence of MK300230 to genbank database by blastn search, I found two notable hits, KY831299.1 (99% identical for 588 bp) and JN298693.1 (97% identical for 658 bp) both of which were registered as sequences obtained from some species of Tipuloidea. Unfortunately, MK300230 would not be a sequence for Anopheles or even not for any mosquito species. Probably, what the authors have actually captured was a kind of crane flies, though no clue to confirm it remains if the whole specimens had been used for DNA extraction. “The first molecular characterization of Aedes cumminsii in Kenya” The claim that the insect represented by MK300225 belong Aedes cumminsii is difficult to accept from the phylogenetic tree in Fig 2; there is only one reference sequence for Aedes cumminsii (MG242484). Even of MG242484 was the closest sequence entry to MK30025 in the current database, it is a dangerous leap to conclude those two sequences are “haplotypes of same species”. For a similar reason, assigning MK300227 and MK300228 to Aedes aegypti in Fig 2 and MK300247 to Culex pipiens in Fig 4 is also problematic because they are not clustered with reference sequences of each corresponding species at least in those figures. Because of those problems, Utilizing DNA sequence for taxonomical identification requires extreme care for selection of reference sequences to be used. Sadly, the description of species associated with DNA sequences exiting in GenBank database is not always correct, but they are based on various levels of evidence. If one classifies his/her sequence merely based on similarity to a sequence that has a wrong species description and registered this new sequence with a wrong species assignment, this entry can be another source of another false finding by another researcher. At least, the authors should correct the ORGANISM section of MK300230 entry in GenBank which is now saying “ Anopheles splendidus ” which is obviously incorrect. Preserving specimens is important to avoid many of those pitfalls. For mosquitoes, there are some useful methods like NaOH crude extraction (e.g. Lars Rudbeck Jrgen Dissing, 1998, BioTequniques 25 (4)), which enable preparing DNA template for PCR from only a single leg with just a cheap cost. Suggestion The author should revise the species assignment for each sequence more carefully and consider using ambiguous descriptions for less confident sequences (e.g. Aedes sp.). 