The manuscript presents BiNAT, a Cytoscape plugin for computing a number of network centrality parameters. In the last years, topological network analyses have yielded interesting insights, thus this is an important area of research. However, I see a number of major issues with both the software and the accompanying manuscript that should be addressed. - Similar plugins: As the authors state, BiNAT is one of the few Cytoscape plugins that computes several centrality indices at once. The other tools should not just be named at the end of the manuscript but should be properly cited and described in the introduction. NetworkAnalyzer is included as a core plugin in every Cytoscape installation; CentiScaPe is available via the Cytoscape App store and has been published in F1000Research as part of the Cytoscape App collection . Although novelty is not a criterion for publication in F1000Research , without a thorough comparison to these tools it is hard to tell what BiNAT can do that these tools cannot (e.g. if there are particular centrality measures that only BiNAT can compute). - Cytoscape 2/3 installation procedure: I had some difficulties trying to install BiNAT. CentiScaPe can be installed with a single click in the Cytoscape App store; why is this elegant option not available for BiNAT? I could only test BiNAT with the outdated Cytoscape 2.8, as in Cytoscape 3.2 for MacOS I could not find a folder (and creating the folder with the BiNAT files inside did not have an effect). This made me wonder if BiNAT is only compatible with Cytoscape 2 and not with the recent Cytoscape 3 (the compatibility entry in the plugin directory and the missing entry in the App store suggest this)? While of course I would like to see compatibility with Cytoscape 3, it should at least be clearly stated if this is not the case in order to prevent confusion. - Usability / user interface: While the authors state that "[t]he plugin interface is simple as a shell" , a user that is familiar with the intuitive, few click interfaces of NetworkAnalyzer and CentiScaPe might find BiNATs command line interface quite challenging and unintuitive. If there is a clear benefit of this command line over a graphical and clickable interface this should be described with good examples (e.g. does it allow to script and save a complex analysis?). As a minimum example, the commands required to compute the Yeast network mentioned in the manuscript could be provided. However, for the user that does not feel overly comfortable typing commands into a shell (and I assume that Cytoscape is used by quite a few of those), a graphical, clickable, and intuitive interface to BiNAT seems to be essential. - File formats: Why does BiNAT actually need the ability to read network files? Input file handling and network creation should be completely handled by Cytoscape, which has a general table import function that can handle any kind of plain text file, not just BioGRID Tab 2.0; plugins like BiNAT should work on the final networks and not replicated core functionality. - Manuscript: In its current form the manuscript contains too many technical descriptions. Implementation details like the model-view-controller design pattern, the description of BiNATs internal directory structure and file organization, or what Apache module is used for writing Microsoft Excel files might be interesting for a developer but are irrelevant for the reader that is a potential user. All this text could be moved to the authors website, freeing plenty of space for a comparison to the other available network analysis tools and for practical use-cases and examples. In a final step, a language check should be performed to make sure the text is fully comprehensible. - Figures: Figure 1 does currently not contain much relevant information and should be replace with a figure that is somehow connected to BiNAT. A classic approach would be to use the computed centrality parameters in Cytoscapes VizMapper to change the color/size of important nodes, ideally focusing on a subnetwork of the Yeast interactome. The Cytoscape Tumblr might work as a great source of inspiration for useful and aesthetically pleasing Cytoscape representations. In addition, Figure 2 should probably be Table 1 instead, as it only contains tabular text.