In this manuscript Albakri Maram et al. demonstrated superior performance of the mScarlet red fluorescent protein over the FusionRed protein in the Huntington’s disease related yeast assay. First, authors showed the higher brightness of non-fused mScarlet protein vs FusionRed during constitutive expression in yeast. Albakri Maram et al. then made fusions of the mScarlet and FusionRed proteins with first exon of the Huntingtin protein (Httex1) carrying FLAG-tag and either non-pathological 25 repeats of glutamines or Huntington’s disease-associated 68 repeats of glutamines. Authors expressed these fusions in yeast and found that in opposite to the FusionRed protein, mScarlet displayed right cytotoxicity and polyQ aggregation. Overall, mScarlet red fluorescent protein can be used as a right tag in polyQ yeast assay for the Huntington’s disease studies. The strategy suggested in this paper may be used researchers for characterization of the properties of other newly developed fluorescent markers. Major points: 1) Results and discussion section, page 6, right column. Analyzing protein expression level on dot blot authors revealed lower levels of yFusionRed protein as compared to other RFPs and based on this fact they suggested its increased degradation in yeast cells (actually, one cannot exclude that yFusionRed lower expression level is not related with its high degradation on RNA level not protein level). These findings suggest that lower expression level of yFusionRed protein in yeast my prevent FusionRed protein from toxicity and formation of aggregates, which could be observed at higher FusionRed protein concentrations only. So we cannot say unambiguously about the real reasons of the absence of toxicity and aggregates formation in the case of FLAG-68Q-yFusionRed fusion. Lower expression level of yFusionRed also may masks its tendency to oligomerize inherently and prevent from correct comparison in this respect with other fluorescent proteins. Minor points: 1) Introduction section, page 3, left column, last sentence, please, replace misprint “…and aggregation assays to explore to effects of…” with “…and aggregation assays to explore the effects of…”. 2) Methods section, page 3, right column, Yeast strains and culture conditions section, authors use term W303A. However according to provided reference it should be named as W303-1A. Please, correct. 3) Methods section, page 3, right column, DNA constructs section, authors mention that they do not use proline rich domain. Please, add explanation of the reason of this. 4) Methods section, page 3, right column, Dot blot section, please, replace misprint “…PSMF…” with “…PMSF…”. 5) Methods section, page 3, right column, Dot blot section, please, replace misprint “…at room temperature were then processed…” with “…at room temperature and then processed …”. 6) Methods section, page 3, right column, Fluorescent microscopy section and elsewhere in the text, please, replace misprint “…Fluorescent microscopy…” with “…Fluorescence microscopy…”. 7) Methods section, page 4, Table 1. I would recommend to change the abbreviations of the constructs in order to mention Httex1 and avoid 25Q abbreviation which can be mistakenly interpreted as a substitution of the residue in position 25 with Q, i.e. for example, replace “p415 Gal1-FLAG-25Q-ymsfGFP” with “p415 Gal1-FLAG-Httex1-(Q)25-ymsfGFP”. 8) Methods section, page 5, Figure 2, panel A. I would recommend replace “Httex1” with “Httex1(Q)25/(Q)68”. 9) Methods section, page 5, Figure 2, panel A and elsewhere in the text. In accordance to the 6th point I would recommend replace “25Q” and “Q68” with “(Q)25” and “(Q)68”. 10) Methods section, page 5, Legend to the Figure 1. Please, add explanation that panel (A) represents a “Scheme of fluorescent proteins expression vectors …”. Also, please, be consistent in the same respect for the panel (C). 11) Methods section, page 5, legend to the Figure 2. Please, add explanation that panel (A) represents a “Scheme of fluorescent proteins expression system …”, panel (B) – “Image of yeast colonies …” and panel (C) – “Dot blots of …”. 12) Results and discussion section, page 6, left column and elsewhere in the text and figure legends, please, replace misprint “Fluorescent intensities…” with “…Fluorescence intensities…”. 13) Results and discussion section, page 6, left column, authors mention that “…yFusionRed was significantly dimmer than yemRFP”. Below they write about the strongest fluorescent signal for ymScarlet. Please, provide these comparisons in more quantitative and scientific manner, i.e. mention in how many fold yFusionRed and ymScarlet RFPs were dimmer and brighter than yemRFP, respectively. 14) Results and discussion section, page 6, left column, please, replace misprint “… in yeast can differed from …” with “… in yeast can be different from …”. 15) Results and discussion section, page 6, left column, please, replace misprint “… of mScarlet compared to other RFs…” with “…of mScarlet compared to other RFs …”. 16) Results and discussion section, page 6, right column. Authors use 68 repeats of Q however in their previous paper of the year 2017 they utilized 72 Q repeats. Please, include in the text explanation why did you choose 68 not 72 repeats. It is important for the comparison of the data. 17) Results and discussion section, page 6, right column. Authors write that “…yFusionRed displayed no significant toxicity…”. The term “significant” suggests statistical analysis, could you, please, provide which statistic criterion was used in this case, e.g. a two-tailed student t-test or Mann-Whitney or someone else? Now Statistical analysis section describes Figure1D data only. Overall, if the points raised above will be adequately addressed, indexing in F1000Research is appropriate. 