This is a biochemical study that dissects the interaction of a two component regulatory system (GraRS) with a third component (GraX) and its downstream ABC transporter system composed of a permease (vraG) and an ATPase (VraF). The major contribution of this paper is to ascertain the interaction of GraX with VraF and GraS. In addition, VraF also interacts with GraS, thus implying a complex system of interaction likely involving at least four proteins. However, the enthusiasm for this manuscript is tempered by several major deficiencies that need to be amended. Major issues: The comparison of BceRS to GraRS is invalid because the correct comparison should be between BraRS (SA2417-2418) and BceRS. Similar to BceRS, BraRS is a TCRS that, together with BraDE (efflux pump system), is required for bacitracin resistance in S. aureus (ref. 23). The interaction of different protein depends on pulldown study where it appears that there is likely to be protein overload to the system (e.g. GraR appears in large amount of the unbound fraction). This reviewer believes the amount of protein used as binding partner should be reduced (to avoid non-specific interaction) and then detected by immunoblots. The authors totally ignored the contribution of VraG The critical protein binding studies in Fig. 9 should be displayed as in Fig. 10 where data on unbound, washed and eluted fractions should be presented. Also, control protein should be included in these data ensure there is no non-specific protein interaction, especially when proteins are used at a relatively high quantities. It would be useful to confirm different protein binding studies (Fig. 9) with another method such as Biacore, FTIR or two-hybrid system. Cull back on negative data and mention in the text. The authors should consider using phosphorylated GraR on the DNAse I footprinting assay. Minor points: ABC transporter senses CAMP (page 3) this is more controversial. I am not sure how the transporter senses since this is not a typical sensing system, especially when this is an efflux system with no ligand binding protein exposed to the outside. What is the control for Figure 3 in this system? In Fig. 7C, what is the elution profile of the unphosphorylated VraR? There appears to be mislabeling in Fig. 9G (GraX instead of GraS). Similarly, Fig. 10A is also mislabeled (GraR instead of GraX). Explain the rationale for the different protein ratios in the protein binding experiments. On p.13, third paragraph, GraRc protected similar.. (Fig. 6). The figure is wrongly references. In the discussion, the author mentions that GraS lacks a bona-fide extracellular sensor domain. There is a short extracellular loop in GraS. How long does it have to be to be bona fide? Could binding of GraS by CAMP activate phosphorylation? 