Data sharing has been an expectation and indeed a contractual obligation for all research funded by NIHR, the research arm of the NHS, for many years. This has meant that bona fides researchers can request access to study data for defined proposes and with a suitable protocol, which should not be unreasonably withheld, e.g. for purposes of IPD meta-analysis. This is not open but controlled access to the data. The arbiter of what is reasonable access to the data falls to the researcher in the first instance, then to his/her host institute, but ultimately to the funder who held the contract. The recent consultation from the ICMJE ( http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1515172 will probably translate into a requirement that data sets be made available in a more transparent way, usually by host institutions, in some form of as yet undefined registry. Why not open access? Smith and Roberts consider some of these issues: Ownership of the data: this (and responsibility for curation and archiving) rests with the institute but subject to the terms of the contract. Inevitably however, a researcher will feel a degree of proprietary protectiveness towards data sets. Most of us are not as altruistic in this regard as Smith and Roberts would like. Given the incentives that exist in academia, some respect for the intellectual property that the researcher has created is inevitable, and usually an agreement to access the data either in collaboration or with due acknowledgement is an acceptable outcome for all. Risks of confidentiality: many studies are not of the 20000 patients size that Roberts has made available: smaller studies, with geographically defined recruitment may mean that the patient is potentially identifiable, especially if complex sets of data – often collected in smaller studies but less likely in larger - can also be accessed. Regrettably, there are people who seem to thrive on breaking open data like this: I think that patient confidentiality requires us to ensure that the data remains anonymous, best achieved by limited rather than open access. Poor data handling: making data available to others is not without substantial cost, at a time when most researchers are planning to move on to another study: e.g. labelling the files from complex data sets in clear manner understandable to those who have not lived and breathed it for several years. Hence collaborative access is an easier and less expensive solution, where possible. Archiving the data also poses problems – who will take responsibility for converting data from old systems or software. NIHR have established a contractual obligation, but like most other funders, has not yet provided the level of funding to make this possible (except on one occasion to Roberts), nor a vehicle similar to the GSK-led clinicalstudydatarequest.com to facilitate this. None of this is to argue against the principles that Smith and Roberts put forward, but only to point out that achieving their worthy aims will not be easy or as quick as it might seem. NIHR like other funders continue to work to support this aim. As part of this, the NIHR journals library is also considering what constitutes publication: perhaps a somewhat selective journal article, a detailed monograph as has been our practice ( www.journalslibrary.nihr.ac.uk ) or in the future, such a document with access to the data. These questions will not be quickly solved, and need much more debate to which this article by Smith and Roberts is a valuable contribution