Introduction The definition of open science needs to be clearly stated in the Introduction in order to strengthen the frame of the whole paper. Is the definition you are using of open science fully accepted and not contested? If so, then great, but if not, then it becomes murkier and you might want to spend time unpacking the tension there. Also in the last sentence of the Intro, what is that ethos of open science? Introduction: Background Would it be useful to unpack some counter arguments on the reasons peer review in its current state of blinded does not work? For example, in the delay and expense portion, how does flipping the model to use APCs change the cost at all? And what happens to unfunded research when the model is flipped? Does that create a disparity that only well funded research is readily available? This might create yet another stratification of scholarly publishing and science communication, which one would assume open science is trying to diminish. I realize that you do some of this in the discussion section, but I find there is a gap in the discussion of the economic argument. Introduction: Contested Meaning I appreciate your thoughtful criticisms of past works that have been unable to do what you are doing in this article. Being the author of one of them, however, I would like to make some points. Would like to point out that while I understand the lack of a definition in my authored article (Defining Characterizing Open Peer Review - 2013) is problematic, it was never my intent to fully describe it, but I had to use a scope for my systematic review, and that scope was identity disclosure. Please note that in my concluding remarks on that paper that I recommended a definition be more tightly defined, and it never claimed to define it wholesale. Your research does a good job picking up the task that other papers were unable to accomplish. Methodology I would like to hear more in your methodology section about the searching for and selection of social sciences and humanities literature, as I think there might be some gaps in your data set based on this approach. You provide your search terms for Web of Science, but not the other databases and search engines. Including this would strengthen your methodology section. To me, the treatment of social sciences and humanities in this study is one of its weaknesses. Please outline the limitations of your research method. The methods section should be strengthened for better understanding of social sciences and humanities approaches, as well as limitations, for the paper to be more scientifically sound. Results I am not a statistician, nor am I a quantitative researcher, so I cannot provide a robust review of your results when it comes to these facets. Figures and tables are helpful to translate findings and ideas presented. Discussion: This section is well organized and easy to understand. I appreciate the presentation of criticisms of OPR in this section. Open participation and open interaction sections would be greatly enhanced and do a great service to your consideration of the social sciences and humanities disciplines if you engaged with Fitzpatrick’s work presented in the Mellon White paper as well the Logos article. Additionally, there is an article not included in your data set (was it out of scope?), in Social Epistemology , that may help. It would be good to engage more deeply with the question: Is OPR changing the role and purpose of peer review itself? There seems to be evidence of this by the mentorship offered at eLife, the encouragement of reviewers to engage with one another at Frontiers, and generally by collaborative approaches to review that OPR enables. In my view these approaches make peer review more robust, including more than just vetting, fact checking, and some substantive critical feedback. To this end, you will need to more clearly define in your introduction and throughout the paper the assumed purpose of peer review, which you offer us in the open final-versioning commenting portion of the discussion section. Open platforms section: While I agree that today platforms are an enormous part of our work in communicating science and engaging with our colleagues across the globe. That being said, I would like to point out that the process of peer review could be completely decoupled from a platform. The reason I mention this is that for some individuals and perhaps some disciplines, it might be difficult to get one’s head around the distinction between a peer review process and its technological implementation. To me they are distinct, and it is merely digital technology that assists us in allowing OPR to unfold. It behooves shy away from techno determinism when it comes to the possibilities presented by OPR. Conclusion I think you have a solid finding, but I would like to point out one more quibble. “Open science” is not a term embraced in the social sciences and humanities. Again, since you are couching your definition under the ethos of open science you will need to better describe open science, and make a bridge for social science and humanities disciplines. If an overarching definition of OPR is to be fully accepted by all disciplines, it needs to be inclusive of all of them. This is wherein the tension lies, where the community-based aspect of OPR in the social sciences and humanities (digital humanities?) are much more pronounced in the meaning making of the process. How can you better acknowledge the disciplinary tensions in the paper? Or would you like to scope your findings differently? Final thoughts This paper is well written and organized logically, which make it quite readable and easy to follow. The main weakness of your paper is the lack of nuance addressed between STEM and social sciences and humanities disciplines. Engaging in the the tension between the approaches to and understanding of peer review and OPR in different disciplines will greatly strengthen your paper. Presenting better the limitations of your method and clarifying your method as noted above will help scope the paper to be more scientifically sound. Finally, clearly define and scope Open Science so that your proposed definition is more understandable. This will greatly strengthen not only the paper, but the definition itself. 