The article looks at a series of, perhaps, interchangeable terms used in the context of science communication and knowledge exchange and how they are understood by those working in academia. It provides an informative and brief literature review and concise definitions for each of the terms: outreach, public engagement, widening participation and knowledge exchange, and presents results of an original survey of science communicators. The research question is important and timely as concepts of science communication and knowledge exchange merge and the impact agenda gains in importance in the UK and elsewhere. However, I have some mayor concerns regarding the empirical analysis. The sampling framework and the sample are not sufficiently described making it difficult to interpret the results. In particular, at several points the authors mention science communicators but do not specify whether these were the target population. They also make no estimate as to how many people were reached and which sectors they work in. It is therefore not clear whether the final sample can be considered representative (as is claimed in making use of the phrase fair cross-section). The sample is very small and one is left wondering whether interviews with a similar number of respondents would not have enabled a better analysis and insights. The final sample also includes employees of universities and of companies but it is not clear how they are distributed and whether answers differ between the two. This is of importance as some of your conclusions seem to assume a homogeneous institutional environment, i.e an academic work environment. More over, we do not know whether respondents are academics, administrators, or professional science communicators. No collecting such information is a major flaw. The use of word clouds to analyse your data strikes me as very odd. The word clouds add no information what so ever and I would suggest removing them. First of all because it can only highlight word frequency, which it does not do very accurately (e.g. it does not look for word stems), and because it does not allow to reader to know the actual frequency or importance of words but only their relative frequency and importance. Other packages such as NVivo should be used as it allows to identify relationships between words and to deduce linkages between the different answers provided. Alternatively a comparison of definitions found in the literature and definitions provided by respondents would provide more interesting results and allow some important insights into how concepts are diffusing. A few final remarks on the literature review: The article does not specify when public engagement and widening participation were introduced as concepts and/or policies in the UK and I think this could be added. The impact agenda within the UKs REF is mentioned towards the end of the review and from there it seems that outreach, public engagement and knowledge exchange are part of this agenda, while widening participation is not. Perhaps this could be commented on here and in the conclusion.