This is a well written and interesting article that describes analyses on genome-wide genotyping information from a DTC company. Major concerns Although the analyses are carried out very well, the overall purpose and conclusion of the paper is rather mixed and somewhat unclear. The authors state that they “explore the extent to which phenotype inference and genotype analysis can be carried out solely using existing public or very low cost resources.” or as in the abstract “providing an evaluation of the current potential of public available analysis tools for personal genomics”. The discussion section focuses very much on the results of the different analyses, whereas that is (according to the purpose of the paper) not that relevant. Rather in that context it would be more interesting to speculate on other aspects (for example, how easy it is for a typical DTC customer to apply the publicly available tools, or how easy it is to (correctly) interpret the outcome of such tools) and to provide a real conclusion on “the extent to which phenotype inference and genotype analysis can be carried out solely using existing public or very low cost resources.” It is not clear whether the tools that were investigated compromise all public domain tools for these kinds of analyses. If the authors do not investigate all available tools, the authors should motivate their choice for the described tools Given the purpose of the paper, a table with the available tools and their “potential” would be very useful. Minor concerns The fact that “Son” was done with a V2 assay complicates all comparisons in the paper. It seems to paper would be a lot more straightforward if the authors used a V3 assay for the son as well. Page 7, “Exome data summary statistics”, authors mention that the numbers they find are what is to be expected. Please add a reference to substantiate this. Page 10, the cond. prob. of a heterozygous call for a heterozygous SNP reads “1-2x-x2” and should probably be “1-2x-x^2”. Similar with the expected frequency for NULL’. Summary Is the title appropriate for the content of the article? Yes Is the abstract a suitable summary of the article? Yes Is the article well constructed and clear? Yes, the article is well constructed, but could do with a conclusion and discussion that is more in line with the purpose of the paper. (see comments above) Is there adequate analysis, including information on how the data were analyzed (e.g. programs, code, stats etc.)? Yes Are the conclusions sensible and balanced? The conclusions does not answer the questions that were asked at the outset of the paper. Have any potential biases or competing interests been disclosed? Yes 