Current study entitled "Discovering, Indexing and Interlinking Information Resources" consists of a technical evaluation of an enriching system attached to an agricultural bibliographic database called AGRIS. I am not sure about the novelty of the system that is presented but I can admit that is an interesting work which does not pose any reading difficulties to the reader, even to those who are not so familiar. Lately, recommending systems have been set on the center of the research activity and the specific work is following the research trends of the area. In my opinion there are some gaps in the study. For example on the description of the Agrotagger crawler researchers say: Regarding accuracy, a recent test in which AgroTagger results were analyzed by professional indexers showed an accuracy of approximately 80%; in 20% of the cases the results were too broad. In brief, the accuracy measurement was carried out by domain experts actively involved in the development of the AGROVOC vocabulary based on manual annotations of a test sample from the AGRIS database It is not clear to me if the aforementioned test has been held in the context of another previous study or it covers the specific study. If it has been held in the past a reference is necessary. Otherwise researchers need to provide further details. Additionally I think that authors should provide more information about accuracy tests. In my opinion the paper describes adequately the design and implementation but needs further enrichment regarding evaluation data. Authors should consider papers restructuring as in many cases I get lost between implementation and evaluation points. Some minor syntax comments are: In Page 1 : AGRIS database, together with other related resources extracted from other preselected datasets together with should be changed to combined with. In Page 1: " Nowadays, scientists and researchers publish their results not only in journals or at conferences, but also via web 2.0 tools and other media [ Kouper, 2010 ; Shema et al., 2012 ] in order to efficiently and broadly communicate their outcomes, [a technique that also helps scientific research reach the general public, since newspapers, magazines and science blogs are often the quickest way to reach people informally]." For better understanding the sentence should be split into two. From the point a technique should start another sentence. In Page 1 : "Blogs and other websites may also contain a corpus of ongoing " should be changed into In Page 2: "Adopting Semantic Web and LOD best practices and technologies, AGROVOC vocabulary items have been assigned URIs, organized into a SKOS-XL concept scheme ( http://www.w3.org/TR/skos-reference/skos-xl.html ), and served both as Linked Open data and via SPARQL endpoint ( http://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-overview )." Re-write the sentence for better understanding.