Lisman and colleagues follow up on a number of prior studies of hemostatic and coagulation activity status in patients with liver cirrhosis. In this small study they document the hemostatic phenotype in plasma from 15 patients that had underwent orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) for liver cirrhosis of diverse nature. In the cross sectional study they compare with healthy persons (of comparable age and sex?). The main finding is that as compared to healthy persons the 15 patients had elevated plasma levels of von Willebrand factor (vWF), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), FVIII and soluble P selection, suggestive of an activated endothelium (and/or activated hemostasis) and an attenuated fibrinolytic system, as shown with clot lysis methodology. Interestingly, thrombin generation parameters were either not different (F1+2) or lowered in case of the potential to form thrombin (measured by Calibrated Automated Thrombinography). The authors conclude that there is evidence of a hypercoagulable state at one year after OLT in these patients, given the above changes, which are suggestive of endothelial activation or damage. A major contributing factor in this process may be the use of immunosuppresive agents. In addition they document a hypofibrinolytic state. Minor comments: Obviously, this study cannot give insight in the origin of the found abnormalities and it is impossible to dissect effects of immunosuppression from those of underlying morbidity; there are several risk factors for CV disease present in this population that may play a role in endothelial activation. A question would be whether any of these patients had been characterised prior to OLT, since it is known that many hemostatic abnormalities are present in association with liver cirrhosis, as the authors also have documented in previous publications. For instance the high level of vWF must (likely) have been present before surgery so that it remains a question how much of the present findings are due to immunosuppression, or to prior comorbidity? Also, the comparison with healthy persons from the lab (age? sex?) may suggest that differences in markers are substantial while in part these may be due to young age or healthy status in controls, so the differences attributable to OLT and/or immunosuppression may be smaller when compared to a comparable group of controls, rather than healthy laboratory subjects. Interestingly, indeed the hemostatic activation may be counterbalanced by a lowered thrombin generation activity, at least by CAT, so that the net hyper coagulability is somewhat blunted. Given somewhat elevated levels of AT and TFPI, these may explain the lowered ETP and peak levels, but there is no direct evidence that these are the major modifiers in this case. In summary, this is a small but interesting study, suggesting a prothrombotic plasma phenotype based on activated endothelial markers coupled to a hypofibrinolytic state, related to elevated PAI-1. Prospective studies of the actual changes pre and post OLT may be needed to get a better idea of the contribution of comorbidity to these changes, preferably as compared to individuals of similar sex and age. The relevance of the observed changes for predicting the risk of thrombosis in these vulnerable patients is worth pursuing. 