The authors have performed a study aiming at assessing NOL response to intubation and incision in patients undergoing video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery with or without epidural analgesia. The study followed a quasiexperimental non-randomized design. In total, 20 patients were included, and 16 were analyzed (8 in each group). They observed that NOL, ∆NOL, HR and ∆HR increased significantly in all patients after intubation. After skin incision, NOL and ∆NOL increased significantly in the epidural group, whereas no difference was observed for HR and ∆HR. The AUCs for ∆NOL and ∆HR after stimulus during 180 s were calculated. A significant difference was observed for ∆NOL AUC in patients with or without epidural analgesia. This was not observed for ∆HR. The authors conclude that NOL may be useful to evaluate the efficacy of an intraoperative thoracic epidural analgesia. Although of interest, there are some concerns regarding this study. Major Concerns: The authors should emphasize the fact that this study was a non-randomized quasiexperimental study performed on a small amount of patients (8 per group). Although some variations were observed, the results should be considered with caution and confirmed by larger trials. Could the authors explain why ANOVA for repeated measures (and corresponding post hoc tests) were not performed for all time by group interactions ? It is unclear to me why no intergroup analysis was assessed (epidural vs no epidural) during time for intubation. The AUC is somewhat confusing and should be better described (and referenced). What is exactly the information provided by this parameter? Moreover, this study doesn't provide any threshold for NOL or ∆NOL variation to assess any outcome. Could the author better explain how these variations may be useful to modify anything in the anesthesia protocol? Minor Concerns: Microgram should be labeled g , not mcg, in the entire manuscript. Please correct. Seconds should be labeled s, not sec, in the entire manuscript and figures. Please correct. Table 2: please provide estimates of dispersion for AUC (95% CI, SD,...) and present data with groups in columns and values (∆NOL and ∆HR in rows). 