The authors present the R package taxa, which provides a set of datatypes and functions for working with taxonomic data. The authors hope that they have contributed a strong base from which the taxonomic data ecosystem can build in R. The authors have also included a particularly useful set of parsers, and dplyr-like functionality within their package. The packages metacoder and rgbif are included as being compatible with taxa, and the authors mention that the popular package taxize is being refactored for compatibility. Major points There is no discussion of the limitations of the software, or an specific discussion of incompatibility issues. If the authors have never encountered incompatibility issues, it would be helpful if they stated other packages or formats for which they have not encountered issues with. The introduction does not provide a concrete discussion of the challenges that the package taxa addresses. Minor points In paragraph one, the authors note the ease with which one can develop an R package. I recommend adding "relative" somewhere in there. In paragraph two, it's not clear what is meant by "each package encodes this information differently." In paragraph four, "Complexity ranges from simple," "simple" is perhaps not the right word In paragraph five, "However, using these classes allows for greater flexibility and rigor as the package develops," it is not clear what is meant by "the package." In paragraph six, "(e.g. Animalia, Chordata, Mammalia, Primates, Hominidae, Homo, sapiens)" and “Achlya” should be italicized. I paragraph eight, "for the average user" should be removed. The clause, "that is easier for new users to understand than equivalent base R commands, which have accumulated some idiosyncrasies over the last 40 years" should also be rephrased to celebrate dplyr without cutting down base R. In paragraph 10, "The many combinations of these powerful options make filter_taxa a flexible tool and make it easier for new users to deal with the hierarchical nature of taxonomic data," "make" should be "makes." In paragraph 11, the sentence "Other dplyr analogs that help users manipulate their data include filter_obs, sample_n_obs, and mutate_obs, filter_obs is similar to running the dplyr function filter on a tabular, user-defined dataset, except that there are more values available to NSE and lists and vectors can also be subset," is confusing. In paragraph 15, sentence 1, "for many users" should be removed. In paragraph 16, “Primates;Hominidae;Homo;sapiens,” “sapiens,” and "Primates" should be italicized In paragraph 17, "Together, these three parsing functions can handle every combination of data type and format (Figure 2)," every is a strong assertion. 