The opinion presented by Dr. Markan discusses an important topic in the FGF21 field, which has persisted as an unresolved issue for quite some time. While the report presents a balanced view, I would suggest the following potential additions/revisions: In the context of a discussion of FGF21 resistance and proteolytic cleavage, it is important to discuss recent developments as they pertain to the various circulating forms of FGF21. Specifically, it would be warranted to mention that it has been recently demonstrated that the ratio of ‘active’ FGF21 to total FGF21 can be modulated in humans (for example, in the GTT setting) and that in certain disease states, expression of the protease FAP are altered. It would be helpful to mention the composition of the FGF21 receptor complex early in the manuscript, prior to discussion of tissue specific effects later in the article. Indeed, it is possible that there is local FGF21 resistance in specific tissues, as measured by pERK vs. traditional systemic hormonal resistance. When discussing translation of FGF21 results to man, it is important to consider that many of the proposed clinical candidates in this area have the site of FAP cleavage mutated, thus negating C terminal truncation (likely the most dramatic inactivation by endogenous proteases). While N terminal cleavage may still occur, it is likely that truncation would not impair action, unless the treatment was with wild type human FGF21. Inclusion of discussion of more current findings from numerous groups on tissue specific ablation/overexpression of FGF21 receptor components would add significantly to the manuscript, specifically, detailed discussion of central vs. peripheral action might be relevant to the topic of ‘FGF21 Resistance’. Another potential explanation for increased FGF21 in states such as obesity is that it may be a sustained homeostatic response to chronic insult. Indeed, FGF21 appears is elevated by a number of stressors (both acute and chronic), including oxidative stress, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), ethanol/alcohol and dietary stress (Fructose etc). Interestingly, when these stressors are removed, FGF21 levels typically normalize relatively rapidly. 