Thanks for the revisions. In particular, thanks for the R code, I think that will make the code from the paper much more accessible. I have some minor comments. In general, can you put the code in typewriter font or similar to differentiate the code and variable names from the rest of the text? Page 5 "Although other covariance matrices other than compound sym- metric might in theory be more suited to the present application, in our tests with SAS we found greatly increased computational time for minimal differences in results" - can you give any data on that conclusion? Top of page 6 "ROC SORT DATA= voilib.withingroup; BY group _epoch; RUN;The above code will create Withingroup and Betweengroup tables in the SAS library voilib." I think the formatting got messed up? Page 7: "Violation of the homogeneity of covariance matrices generally results in the overall test having a higher Type I error rate than nominally set." - can you add a citation? Page 7-9: I might have missed it, but have you some guidance on the acceptable degree of not-normality or skewness? For example, what do you mean by "moderate" or "serious" skew? Page 9 : Can you add citations for the statements on sphericity? Page 9: "we suggest a compound symmetric matrix" - can you give more justification for this choice? Page 9: "Smoothed images were intensity normalized to minimize global effects." - could you be specific what normalization you used? Page 10: "For the right mid cingulate (Figure 5F)," - I think you mean Figure 5D. Page 11: Have you previously defined the abbreviation OSA for Obstructive Sleep Apnea? Page 11: "Temporal autocorrelation between repeated measures is not accounted for, which likely leads to some loss of power." - can you give more detail? Under what circumstances would temporal autocorrelation lead to excess false positives? Page 11: "Nevertheless, we have found the technique highlights many patterns of interest, and thus this limitation does not negate the sensitivity of the technique." - maybe omit the second clause here? I guess it's possible that the effects you have here are so strong that they overwhelm an insensitive technique. Thanks again for the revisions.