This manuscript describes a recent science outreach event which was held in San Antonio. The authors provide the results of surveys completed by the public as well as the graduate student scientists that participated in the event. Overall this is a well-written manuscript and provides an exciting model for combining outreach with a long-standing cultural event which is to my knowledge a novel approach. It deserves to be published and will hopefully inspire other groups to try this approach in their science outreach. However, I have listed revisions which the authors need to address before this manuscript is indexed. Both surveys are dependent on self-reporting of the positive impacts of participation in Science Fiesta. However perceived outcomes do not always match actual results as discussed in Brownell and Kloser (2015). Please add references and text discussing this issue to the Discussion section. The n-value of 12 for the surveys of the graduate students is relatively low so please also add a statement to the Discussion section acknowledging that this data is based on input from a small number of graduate students. Please add text to the Discussion section describing previous literature discussing limits to the benefits of short-duration outreach programs (see Laursen et al., 2007). In general the Discussion section needs to be modified to include the perspective that although the surveys indicate multiple positive outcomes may have occurred from this outreach program due to the short duration of the program, the main accomplishment may have been as a starting point towards the goals of increasing public science understanding and enthusiasm and science communication and outreach participation by graduate student scientists. Please indicate how many of the participants were Ph.D. students and how many were Masters’ students. Did all the students have the opportunity to communicate science or were some more involved in organizing and greeting the public? This might also be an important point to make regarding your data, if a student did not present a scientific topic then he or she did not likely improve their science communication skills. I had difficulty determining if this event was completely separate from the other Fiesta events physically and/or temporally? Please make it clear if the public participants in Science Fiesta were only participating in science outreach or if there were other non-science outreach activities occurring at the same time in close proximity. I am curious if there is additional background as to how the authors arrived at this outreach model. For example, is there literature to support the idea that pairing scientific outreach with culture events is an effective outreach model? Please add references for any similar models found in the science communication literature and emphasize this approach in the Discussion section. At the beginning of the Results section, the following two statements are misleading and refer to data not shown in the Figures: (1) "Science Fiesta was attended by approximately 3,500 people, most of whom had never previously attended science outreach events (73.7%)"; (2) "Even though only 26.3% of attendees said they had attended a science event before, over 90% of respondents said they were likely or very likely to attend other science events." Please revise the text to indicate that this data is found in the Dataset 2 link and that the 73.7% and 26.3% is for only the attendees that participated in the survey not all 3,500 people. 