Non-AIDs cancers seem to be more frequent in well-treated patients on ART than the general population, due either to HIV persistent immune damage vs. lifestyle, behaviour risk or both. To prove this link, HIV infected persons should be compared to age matched general population in a relatively large population as the events remain encouragingly relatively low, during the ART era, where viral replication is controlled over long periods of time. To this end, investigators from the well-established HIV Swiss cohort calculated standardized incidence ratios for each identified NADM by comparing the observed number of cancers with the expected number of occurrences. An indirect standardization was performed using period-specific rates for the Swiss population provided by the National Institute for Cancer Epidemiology and Registration using age and sex as co-variables. Influence of CD4 and CD8 count, CD4/CD8 ratio, and HIV viral load was assessed by Cox regression models. Higher rates of HPV driven anal (SIR 76.1, 95% Confidence interval (CI) 60.2-96.2), lung (SIR 1.98, 1.50-2.62), and liver cancer (SIR 7.28, 5.25-10.1) were observed. Hormonally driven cancer like prostate cancer was similar in HIV and control population (SIR 1.03, 0.76-1.38). Interestingly, anal cancer was associated with low CD4, with high CD8, and smoking. Interestingly, for lung cancer, CD8 cell count was the only predictor identified opening new hypothesis on inflammation in the context of ART-treated persons. As expected, CD4 cell count and chronic hepatitis B and C infection were predictive of liver cancer incidence. Several issues should be addressed: Types of cancer should be divided into viral-related and those not known to be associated with viruses like lung and prostate. Focus should be on lung cancer and its relationship with CD8 and nadir CD4 T cell if data available. Effort should be on novelty and not confirming previous data. Changes occurring or not in cancer incidence during the study period should be highlighted. Discussion on Cd8 elevation and occurrence of lung cancer should be more detailed as future direction for research. Conclusion: Immunodeficiency was an important risk factor for anal and liver cancer, whereas immune senescence was associated with lung cancer and anal cancer. I think anal cancer with immune senescence should be removed from the conclusion as it seems to be more driven by CD4 T cells and the conclusion is not clear. Findings of lung cancer and immune senescence are the novelty of this manuscript and open several hypothesis including smoking and CD8 elevation in non-HIV population and immune senescence linked with CMV serostatus. 