The manuscript concerns quantification of aging by means of biological age (BA) model trained as a predictor of chronological age from the widely available blood markers (complete blood cell counts and biochemistry). Understanding capabilities and the biology behind such biomarkers are among the key issues in fundamental aging studies and could be very helpful for practical applications. The manuscript, however, falls short to provide the necessary characterization of the proposed BA model. I believe that the presentation could be improved by addressing the issues listed below so that the results of the study could be eventually indexed in a revised form. The authors introduced and documented the performance of the particular ML pipeline (XGBoost flavor of decision tree algorithms) trained to predict the chronological age from the blood markers provided by the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). The rationalizations behind the approach were two-fold. First, the biological age predictor could be (at least according to previous studies) associated with all-cause and disease-specific mortality. Second, the proposed algorithm could produce a better interpretation of the biological age model output in a form, eventually suitable for personalized recommendations. Unfortunately, the results presented in the manuscript are not sufficient to fully judge the merits of the model. Major issues: This is not the first work concerning the biological age estimation from the blood markers in general or in NHANES in particular. I would expect more references to previous work and different machine learning techniques (from principal components analysis to deep learning). I would take a log-linear mortality model from Levine 2018 1 and a deep learning model from Putin 2016 5 as state of the art modern implementations The results should be compared with a reference model. I would not expect anything sophisticated, but there must be a comparison. For example, would the novel XGBoost method perform better than a linear regression to chronological age? What is the correct measure of the model's performance? A biological age should not be judged by the quality of the chronological age prediction only. Iеt has been shown that improvements in the accuracy of this class of BA models may lead to a degradation of the association with chronic diseases and mortality (Levine 2018 1 , Pyrkov 2018a 2 . The open access part of the NHANES database contains enough death events and clinical diagnosis. I propose to demonstrate how strongly the proposed BA is associated with the remaining lifespan (Cox-regression significance test )? Is there an association of the biological age (after adjustment for age and sex) with lifestyles (such as smoking, see Pyrkov 2018b 3 , Mamoshina 2019 4 , etc). Are the effects of smoking reversible in cohorts of individuals, who quit smoking (see Pyrkov 2018b 3 )? What is the aging acceleration in years associated with smoking (see Mamoshina 2019 4 )? How is it related to the actual lifespan depreciation associated with smoking? Is the biological age associated with chronic diseases? A linear model, such as a (regularized) regression to age, a log-linear proportional hazard model, would also provide the biological age estimation with contributions associated with the specific markers. Without comparison with a reference linear model, it would be difficult to argue that a more sophisticated approach is easier to interpret. Let me list a number of minor points, recommendations for the discussion (not necessarily calculations!): It would be reasonable to discuss hyperparameters involved in the XGBoost model tuning. How those parameters were selected? There is a log-linear proportional hazard model predicting mortality in NHANES (Levine 2018 1 ). Is there a way to see if the XGBoost model is better? Is it possible to produce a prophetic statement? Could the authors speculate if their model is more or less statistically powerful than the phenoage? In the authors' opinion, what are advantages or disadvantages of XGBoost over deep learning models, such as Zhavoronkov? Is there a way to improve the biological age assessment with XGBoost in combination with proportional hazards models? 