This short opinion piece extols the value of a practical approach to learning and presents an interesting question: how can we ensure that students both learn facts and concepts/principles. The question is posed in the context of developmental biology but it applies equally well to all disciplinary areas. The author develops/explains this central question well (if briefly). He then presents information about his own practice and in particular describes (very briefly) a module that he has developed and delivered (once). He presents a discussion in which elements of the module are described, and finally he concludes that his discipline is one in which practical experience is essential. Each of these individual parts is interesting but they are not fully developed and I do not feel that they add up to a discussion of the value of a practical approach to developmental biology, nor do they currently address the question that the author poses. An opinion piece is of course an encapsulation of the opinions of the author and in this case I agree with the opinion expressed. However for a reader to be able to evaluate these opinions and assimilate them with their own experiences it is essential that they are supported by evidence. Unfortunately I dont think the author of this paper has achieved this. The link between the introductory material and the description of practice is not a fully developed one. In fact it would be possible to remove the description of practice here without really changing the message that is conveyed (ideally of course the case study should enhance the message). I would recommend that the author further develops the explanation and evaluation of the design of the module in the context of both its purpose and outcomes. Furthermore the evaluation presented here is very limited. As a reader I would like to better understand the authors aims in designing the module? the level to which these aims are achieved? how their achievement is measured/assessed? I also feel that a stronger inclusion of the student voice (through an enhanced evaluation of student perception and engagement) would strengthen the argument that this model is right in this context. Finally it is essential that the conclusion be re-written to make better use of the evidence that the author draws directly upon in formulating his opinion.