This is an interesting short report describing the prevalence of two loci incriminated in metabolic and target-site resistance to pyrethroid pesticides in populations of the malaria mosquito A. gambiae s.s. on the Comoros Islands. The cyp3 allele of the CYP9K1 gene was found in all island specimens and also in a single population sampled from mainland Tanzania. In contrast the East African kdr (L1014S) allele was not found on the islands suggesting that these populations are fully geographically isolated from mainland populations, or alternatively that pesticide selection pressures are not very high on the islands due to limited vector control programmes. I just have a few general suggestions that may help make the current report a little bit more informative in key areas and thus make it more relevant to a broader readership. The current introduction and discussion are very succinct... Are these 2 loci the only major loci involved in resistance to pyrethroids and why were they chosen in particular? Additional background with references would be useful in the intro. As noted by the authors, there is limited information on pesticide resistance in general on the Comoros. The authors also state: Our study provides much needed information regarding the genetics of insecticide resistance in A. gambiae populations in the Comoros Islands. It looks to me that what is first and foremost really needed are detailed bioassay surveys of pesticide resistance for the island populations. These would have provided a better context for the current study and would have made the interpretation of the distribution on the two kdr resistance loci easier. Is the cyp3 allele here an ancestral allele or has it swept through due to selection? Given the above, the main selling point of this study lies, in my view, in the use of the kdr locus as a marker for introgression as done previously in studies of West African A. gambiae populations. For many years, kdr was the only marker suggesting an absence of gene flow between A. coluzzii and A. gambiae s.s. in Mali. Hence, I would suggest expanding that part of the discussion a little bit. The current section omits some interesting parallels and details. In the same line of thought, discussing the new findings with those generated using neutral markers in a previous study for the same islands ( Marsden et al ., 2013 ) would be useful, again because of the similarities with approaches (neutral versus non-neutral markers) used in past studies of reproductive isolation. The authors mention possible gene flow from the mainland via boats. It may be worth mentioning that the main boat connections are from Mayotte, Zanzibar and Madagascar whose A. gambiae populations are not included in this and previous study. Why is that? What is the status of those populations? If the Comoros islands were to be used for possible mosquito release programmes, re-colonization from neighbouring islands would possibly also be a concern. On the other hand, gene flow from the Mozambique coast can only be dismissed if additional sampling was made from that region. This is clearly an area of the world whose vector populations are greatly understudied. Given that these islands represent some of the best locations for testing mosquito release programmes, this study, albeit a small contribution, represents an important step in the right direction.