Although authors have improved the manuscript, they have not addressed all the comments submitted in the first review. MAJOR CONCERNS: Methods: If the ENAHO is conducted yearly, why to use the 2013 ENAHO? Why not to use the last one available? This needs to be explained or at least considered as a limitation. Was any criterion related to time living in high altitude (e.g. at least 6 months living in the city/area)? Are 30 days enough to see the potential impact of altitude on health? If not, please, add as limitation. How altitude was measured? Was GPS used for this? Only a simple calculation of the altitude of the city was used? Please explain. Usually, 2500 meters is used as the cutoff and not 3000... Since this variable is the main exposure, details should be given to understand if any misclassification could be introduced... Only those aged 20 years and more were included in the analysis? How about those between 18 to 20 years or those younger… why they were not included? Why education level and socioeconomic status were not confounders? As they are associated with obesity and people in high altitude settings, mainly rural, tend to have low SES and low education... should be they confounders? These variables are available in the ENAHO survey and must be included in analysis or demonstrate why not to include them? Results: What do you mean for “703 different locations”? This part is not explained in the Methods section. Were they the areas with altitude information? Obesity prevalence must be standardized by age. Authors always said that the prevalence of obesity was lower in high altitude, but that is only the crude estimate... at least age standardization (if possible by sex also) must be conducted to say something like that. Please use appropriate graphs to see the inverted-u shape relationship... three points are not enough... use appropriate linear regression models? Or used more categories in the exposure variable... for example, an increase every 500 meters... Discussion: What is the relevance of the findings? This is not clear as apparently the discussion is used only to compare results with other studies. A paragraph is needed to show the public health relevance of this association. I would also suggest to tone down some of the sentences as this is only a cross sectional study and not better analysis has been done to improve the understanding of the association between altitude and obesity prevalence. MINOR CONCERNS: Change “Peruvian National Institute of Statistics and Information” for “Peruvian National Institute of Statistics and Informatics”. Please in Methods explain how what unreliable data defined. Usually there are no references in the Results section (verify #24). 