 Abstract: "[W]ith three degrees of inter... volume of distribution" This does not make sense, as no mention of the volume parameter is made afterward in the body of the text. Introduction: "Fixed effects are ... the measurements obtained" , Usually the fixed effects are the population/average/mean values of the model parameters, so this sounds incorrect perhaps because its out of context. Methods: The authors should be clearer about the model parameters that are estimated : K non-zero parameters m (?),as K doesnt even appear in equation (3)? What are those m ? Do they correspond to dose/volume in an IV bolus equation? Then Im not sure one can identify M in such parameters? " Note that with N 1, a perfect fit is no longer obtained with K = M nonzero coefficients , because the ϵij are generally different for different i (individuals)" The authors should add that it is the case here because in their model there is only one random effect per individual. The constraint/absence of constraint on the m is not clear; those parameters were not constrained so they could be equal to zero? The authors should be more explicit. "[U]sing predictions based on equation (7) with the random effectsi= 0, and validation data zi(tj) also generated via equation (6), but with different realizations of ϵij and i" It is not clear to me how are those predictions were obtained? How are the random effect and residual errors generated (type and parameter values of the distributions)? "The above criteria were normalized by dividing them by the number of observations, and averaged over 1000 runs" Seems incorrect or not explained enough. In mixed effect models you cannot compare two designs soley on the total number of observations. The information is not the same for n tot =20 resulting from i) 2 subjects with 10 samples each and ii) 5 subjects with 4 samples each. In Figure 3, the plots of OFV versus -2LL, AIC and AICc do not make sense to me as the relationship is evident from the equations, plus there is no explanation about what the separate points correspond to. Discussion: I am not convinced by the section on BIC as the claims are rather strong in absence of comparison on the simulations. I suggest the authors shorten it. The first section of "Model selection criterion AIC and predictive performance" does not make sense to me, are the authors talking about AIC capability to select a model that would predict new subjects? I thought that was the criteria they actually used. Also in "Model selection criterion AIC and predictive performance" the last section seems full of strong claims again (as for BIC) not justified through the present simulation study; I would suggest the authors remove the 1st and last sections Ive mentioned. "In practice, when the weights are unknown, a choice must be made to weight the data according to the measurements or to the model output, depending on which is likely to be the most accurate. " There is literature about NOT using the measurements but the model output, that should be corrected. 