This article aims at providing a systematic review of literature on the treatment of fatigue in multiple sclerosis. This is an important topic, as management of MS-related fatigue is a difficult subject and the results achieved in clinical practice are often frustrating to clinicians and patients alike. Unfortunately, the review falls short of its goal, providing only a superficial summary of the identified literature and a discussion based on a handful of selected anecdotes. The review would benefit from a more systematic approach to the topic. Major comments: The systematic review only included open access articles. This is potentially a significant limitation. How may otherwise eligible articles were excluded on these grounds? The information summarised in the Introduction is selective and only remotely related to this article. The referencing style in the Introduction is suboptimal, with only limited number of indirect references cited. The summary given in the Introduction, paragraph 5 is unnecessary. Most of this information is not immediately relevant to this manuscript and the section is not appropriately referenced. Similarly, the information shown in paragraph 6 is patchy and poorly referenced. The authors cite the old phenotypic classification of MS. Instead, the 2013 revisions of the classification of MS phenotypes (Lublin et al., Neurology 2014[Ref-1]) should be used. During screening, the authors have excluded a large number of identified articles. This does not impact negatively on the quality of the systematic review but it highlights that the search terms employed were very broad. The Results are hard to follow. The effect of different interventions on physical performance and fatigue are presented intermittently. In fact, the most of the section on the results of meta-analyses focuses on the effects of treatments on physical performance, with only a very brief mention of the reported effect on fatigue. The references of the individual results are scattered and often given without the appropriate context (for instance “6-month study in 2016, ECTRIMS showed no increase in mortality.” The summary of the safety issues mentioned for some of the presented interventions is not balanced. The authors erroneously state that there is no evidence of therapeutic effect in SPMS, whereas siponimod has in fact shown effect on slowing progression of disability in a phase 3 trial (EXPAND). There is some duplication of the reported results, as some of the clinical trials were also included in the meta-analyses. This is unavoidable, but the amount of overlap between the meta-analyses and the trials reported individually in this review should be reported. An improvement in 20-40% of patients treated with amantadine is referenced – it is unclear which domain and in what test this improvement involves. Similarly, it is unclear what is meant by the statement ‘The two most effective drugs in treatment are natalizumab and alemtuzumab…”. Does this relate to their effect on relapses/disability/MRI or fatigue? The results of the individual randomised controlled trials should be summarised not only with p values but, most importantly, with the measures of effect size (both point and interval estimates). The authors mention an issue of the efficacy of interventions in the context of the duration of the symptoms. This should be expanded upon and provided with more supporting evidence if this theme is to be retained within the article. The manuscript would benefit from a stylistic review (a few examples – Introduction, paragraph 2, lines 6-7; Introduction, paragraph 3, lines 12-16; Introduction, paragraph 5, last line; Introduction, paragraph 5, lines 10-12; Methods, Inclusion/Exclusion criteria, lines 9-11; Figure 2 etc.). The authors should also use terminology more accurately – e.g. ’widespread MS investigation’, ‘disease burden’, ‘experimental studies’. The formulation “MS is affecting 2,000,000 people worldwide and 400,000 people in the United States per year” implies that the cited information represents incidence, whereas the numbers given are keeping with MS prevalence. The Discussion is not systematically structured and would benefit from more thorough, systematic evaluation of the mentioned topics. These include the present anecdotes related to the link between depression and fatigue, use of melatonin, TMS and plasticity. An in-depth discussion of the summarised literature, including critical appraisal of the presented studies and meta-analyses, is needed. The opening statement of the Discussion provides a perspective on relevant measurable outcomes in the tests of MS-related fatigue. This discussion should be linked to the results presented and the magnitude of the impact of the studied interventions on FSS should be evaluated. The authors have phrased the conclusion in the fashion of an original study (“Our study has found a significant positive effect…”). However, it should be remembered that this article is a systematic review of literature, in which no novel results were generated. The Conclusion section should use the language of a review. In this context, references to ‘significant’ findings are not appropriate. The following proposed conclusions are not supported by the results of the reported trials, including the following: The suggestion that CBT and exercise-based therapies are not associated with better control of fatigue due to a more aggressive nature of PPMS and SPMS relative to RRMS The proposed need for combination therapy for MS, which is also being implied as an accessible option (please note that combination immunotherapy is not approved for use in MS) The sentence containing “…should focus on improving the quality of life of progressive forms of MS” objectifies patients and should be rephrased. Minor comments: Table 1: should provide explanation of the AMSTAR items in a footnote. Table 2: Minor inconsistencies are present (such as n-acetyl carnitine vs. L-carnitine; the format of presenting control groups) 