The manuscript Classification of processes involved in sharing individual participant data from clinical trials by Ohmann C, Canham S, Banzi R, Kuchinke W and Battaglia S 1 is more than useful for all stakeholders interested in data sharing. It must be accepted with, in my opinion, a few (and minor) edits. In my experience as a researcher interested in the impact of data sharing policies 2 , I have identified that a major practical barrier to implementation of full data sharing of randomised controlled trials was the great heterogeneity across different trial groups: "getting prepared and preplanning for data sharing still seems to be a challenge for many trial groups; data sharing proved to be novel for some authors who were unsure how to proceed". Therefore the description and classification of processes involved in sharing IPD from clinical trials will surely helps all stakeholders to get prepared. It is welcome and this manuscript will be very useful. I have a few suggestions that may help to write it better. Please note that I'm not an expert in qualitative research. Therefore these are only suggestion that I don't want to enforce strongly. First, as it is presented as a research paper and because it is very qualitative by nature, I would suggest to use, or better adapt the reporting guidelines for qualitative research 3 to this specific paper as most points won't directly apply since the study presented is not a typical qualitative research. More specifically, I would welcome more details on authors in the main text: - Who are they? Were they from different background (e.g. data managers, statisticians, trialists, patients, etc..., Master degree, MD, PhD, PharmD... etc.). Please clearly state that they were involved in the initial initiative that was used for this paper 4 . Please also detail how it could have affected their judgement. - What is their background for conducting such a qualitative synthesis? - Was there a protocol registered for this analysis? Please specify why the processes were derived from only one initiative 4 and not from a systematic assessment of other papers/initiatives. Any limitations of the initial paper should be discussed here. The process of analysis should be made as transparent as possible. How the different authors were involved in the process? Were there some leaders during the phone meetings? Were verbatim from written correspondence used? Was there a good agreement between expert (for what parts the agreement was less good ?)? The researchers’ own position should also clearly be stated. A critical examination of their own role, possible bias, and influence on the research would be welcome. I have also identified very practical points that could be addressed in a new version of the manuscript: - In my very practical experience 2 , figure 1 could be overly simple for being accurate. I think that one important point was missed. Adoption of data sharing in biomedical research not only implies to provide and re-use the data. It implies to adopt a collaborative approach. It means that when one want to re-use the data of another team, one sometimes must directly contact the other team to have information and to have the data in the appropriate format. Sharing data for a re-analysis of safety outcomes involves sharing the cases report forms while re-using data for some IPD meta-analysis may only rely on sharing data at a later analytical stage (e.g. analysable data). This implies that step 3 is very linked with step 6. I think that the figure will be better (if it is not too complex) by adding such kind of relationship. - Table 1, section 1.1.1 / 2.3.1: patients are an important actors/leverages and must be involved in my opinion in these aspects ; - Table 1, in general avoid abbreviations such as "SOP" in 1.3 ; - Table 1, section 2 and 3.1: Ethic committees have a strong role to play at all these parts. They have, in my opinion to judge wether the de-identification plan is adapted to the specific study ; - Table 1, section 3.2.1: data manager and statisticians must ensure that the code that will be shared works for the de identified data sets. Practical finding from my experience (in one case, de-identification was made after the analysis and labels were different between the two datasets : therefore the shared code didn't worked). - Table 1, section 4.1.1: this should be explored before in my opinion (at step 3), when one decide of the data sharing plan. - Table 2 very interesting, but I would suggest to add an hyperlink to some concrete examples when possible in section 3. In general the tables should be checked for majuscule and minuscule: eg. table 2, section 3 "during" must be During. A last suggestion would be to add more practical information for clinicians and to cite the ICJME recommandations. It is again a very great manuscript and I hope that these comment will be able to improve it. I'm not competent to review the English, and please excuse my English. 