In this paper, the authors analysed the response of renal cancer cells Caki-1 to hypoxia and CoCl 2 treatment using whole transcriptome sequencing. The main finding of the manuscript that the profiles of gene expression of Caki-1 cells are qualitatively different under these two conditions, and, therefore, the CoCl 2 treatment may not represent an adequate model mimicking hypoxia, is interesting and merits indexation, in my opinion. Although, as far as I can ascertain, most of the experiments are technically sound and the main conclusions of the study are justified, I feel that there is a number of issues with the text/interpretation of the data, which need to be addressed to improve the quality of the manuscript: It is not sufficiently clear from the text why the authors have elected the Caki-1 cell line for their study. Is there anything peculiar about these cells? Is VHL mutated/lost/misexpressed in these cells? The last question is especially important since the authors mention that this protein is lost in 50-70% of renal cell carcinomas. According to the Dataset 1, the authors used triplicates for each condition in their analysis. This should be stated in Methods section. The authors should also comment on the nature (biological vs technical) of these replicates there. It is not clear if the numbers presented in the Venn diagram in Figure 2A represent all genes up/down regulated for each condition or only the genes enriched for the indicated KEGG pathways. It is also not clear from the annotation or legend which numbers correspond to upregulated and downregulated genes in this figure. The Discussion is very weak at the moment with no references cited in the section. The authors should rewrite it relating their findings to available literature. Other points: The abstract lacks a sentence summarizing results of the study and/or pointing at potential implications of the findings for medicine/cancer biology. It would be beneficial for readers if such statement was included in the abstract. The last sentence in Introduction (starting with "We propose...") may well be an overinterpretation. The conclusion that CoCl 2 treatment is not a "correct model for hypoxia" may need to be additionally confirmed using other cell line systems. Presenting the KEGG enrichment scores for each category alongside the Venn diagram may be helpful for assessing significance of the results. 