 This is an interesting article reporting the in vitro effect of human iPSC-derived mesoangioblasts on T cells. This is a prerequisite step in order to use these cells in the treatment of patients suffering from muscular dystrophy. How do human iPSC-derived mesoanglioblasts interact with T cells is an open question. This is of interest since these cells can be used in cell-based therapy approaches. Immunogenicity of infused cells depends on cell type. The study by Li and colleagues is well performed. I have only minor comments in order to better explain how the results on Figure #3AB are shown or calculated. Typo (page 3, paragraph “Results”): “makers” instead of “markers”. I propose to add the number of experiments performed at the end of the legend of the Figure #1. I suggest that the authors improve the Figure #3 panel A and B and its legend. For Figure #3A, I understand well the two upper panels: the panel PBMC shows non proliferating PBMC (all the cells are brightly stained with CSFE) and the panel PBMC + Anti CD3/CD28 shows maximal proliferation with all the cells (gated for CD3) exhibiting decreased CSFE fluorescence due to CSFE dilution occurring during cell division. I propose to modify the PBMC histogram and to increase the scale to better appreciate the peak. According to the legend and the Materials and Methods section, the other panels correspond to the coculture of either mesangioblast or iPSC-derived mesangioblast from a healthy donor or a patient with PBMC (fixed number of 5 x 10 4 /well). Thus, the number of mesangioblasts varies and is decreasing (from 1:4 to 1:32). It is logical that the peaks of proliferating CD3+ cells increase in the lower panels. However, if inhibition of T cell activation occurs, a peak in the non dividing area/region should be observed as in the panel “PBMC”. It seems to be the case for the condition “LMGMDD pt.3”. However, this is difficult to observe with the other conditions. I propose to increase the Y scale. Maybe, as performed in the previous Figure (Figure #2), counting beads were added to assess the absolute number of CD3+ CFSE low 7AAD neg cells. This explains why the peaks are flat in the 1:4 ratio conditions. Concerning Figure #3B, the shown data represent the percentage of CD3+ cell proliferation in coculture divided by the percentage of CD3+ cell proliferation in the absence of coculture. According to the upper panel of the Figure #3A, all the cells proliferate. I suggest that the authors provide more explanations on how the data are obtained. 