I have reviewed the manuscript “Salivary nitric oxide, Simplified Oral Hygiene Index, and salivary flow rate in smokers and non-smokers: a cross-sectional study” submitted to “F1000Research” for publication. I found this work interesting and fit well with in the scope of this journal. In this cross-sectional study, authors have analyzed and compared salivary nitric oxide, Simplified Oral Hygiene Index (OHI-S) scores and the salivary flow rate in smokers and non-smokers. The manuscript fits well within the scope of the journal; it needs some major improvements; there are a few suggestions that authors may consider to improve it further: Abstract: is structured and has been described clearly; however, there is no description of statistical analysis that should be added to the abstract. Introduction; is brief however covering the background information and the rationale of the study effectively. Methodology and results have been reasonably presented; OHIS score should be defined. Figure 1 and 2: SFR legend is not required and must be deleted to match the style of figure 3. Figure 5 and 6: Use same style to describe OHIS; either OHIS or OHI-S? The discussion is a little bit brief; authors must include and cite more studies in context comparing their findings with previous studies. For example; why specific saliva collection devices were not used and what are the possible limitations for using Falcon tubes? The authors could include the following paper with relevant information: Khurshid, Zohaib, et al. "Human saliva collection devices for proteomics: An update." International journal of molecular sciences 17.6 (2016): 846. 1 Similarly, how the reduced salivary flow and age may affect the OH and quality of life should be discussed; the information from the following papers could be included: Ahmad, Mohammad S., et al. "The impact of hyposalivation on quality of life (QoL) and oral health in the aging population of Al Madinah Al Munawarrah." International journal of environmental research and public health 14.4 (2017): 445. 2 Khurshid, Zohaib, et al. "Human saliva and its role in oral systemic health." JPDA 25.04 (2016): 171. What are the final conclusions of this study? The key outcome points should be highlighted 