The manuscript is well written and appropriate as an article in F1000 Research. The abstract states that their findings, "demonstrate the limitations in the culture-based regulations", but this conclusion does not follow from their data. In fact, their results show that their DNA based method is overly sensitive at detecting potential pathogens. Whether culture-based regulations are appropriate or not would have to be validated and tested directly, not simply inferred from the presence of microbial DNA. The authors should remove this cautionary sentence in the abstract and throughout the manuscript until it has been validated. This would make the manuscript more balanced and justified. A better understanding of the microbiome and mycobiome in cannabis is an important endeavor in part, because recent work on the human microbiome has revealed that microbial constituents of the microbiome and fungi interact cooperatively and non cooperatively to influence human health. Recently studies focused on the human gut mycobiome have been performed using deep sequencing of the ITS1 region for identification of fungi in fecal samples from healthy individuals and the researchers identified 184 fungal species in total. Human oral and lung tissues testing indicate the presence of Aspergillus, Cryptococcus, Fusarium , and Alternaria in healthy individuals. An emerging theme from this new field of study indicates complex microbial communities distributed across the body that fundamentally contribute to the development, physiology and metabolic homeostasis of the macro-organism. The same is likely true in plants, like cannabis. Because of this beneficial dynamic interplay between microbes and hosts a complete absence of amplified DNA or RNA microbial markers would be unexpected. The question is, “What levels are safe?” and the answer to this question has not been established. From a consumer safety perspective the rationale for microbial testing in food and pharmaceuticals is to prevent infection of highly toxigenic microbes that grow readily and are consumed in rather large quantities. For example, Aspergillus flavus infects grain in as much as 30% of Sub-Saharan African maize and the Aflatoxin regulatory limit for maize is 10 ppb because in this region maize is consumed in kilogram quantities on a daily basis. The risk of health hazard to individuals arising from microbial toxins or mycotoxins is largely proportional to the consumption amounts and frequency. Compared to other regulated foods or tobacco it is expected that the level of cannabis consumption would be minimal and would therefore present minimal risk, nevertheless, there is burgeoning interest in putting in place regulatory requirements for medical and recreational Cannabis in some markets. In this present study the authors use state-of-the art technology to identify DNA-based markers associated with a variety of microbes and, as expected, some are pathogenic. The authors state that “Mycotoxin monitoring in Cannabis preparations is important since aflatoxin produced by Aspergillus species is a carcinogen.”, but there is no actual data showing that the strain of Aspergillus they identify is toxigenic. Aspergillus is a common fungus that is found in the human mycobiome in oral, lung, gastrointestinal tract. Detection of Aspergillus markers in minute quantities alone is not necessarily a health concern unless it is also coincident with live cells that can grow readily and secrete toxin that are above some threshold or there is an imbalance in homeostatic growth limiting factors. The authors call into question culture-based testing, which is the standard in Food safety and USP regulatory guidelines based on comparison to their highly sensitive DNA based detection. Their results using standard regulatory methods, for the most part, would not indicate a food safety problem. The authors should add this emphasis. The authors correctly identify a limitation of their study in that the qPCR based testing has an “indifference to living or non-living DNA” and because of this their PCR based approach may be unnecessarily sensitive. To date there are little to no guidelines for thresholds on many mycotoxins or bacterial toxins that have been established in the cannabis industry, so their findings help inform regulators as to which type of toxins might be relevant for further analysis. The authors state, ”Health compromised patients exposed to aflatoxin and clearance-inhibiting cannabinoids raise new questions in regards to the current safety tolerances to aflatoxin.” but the authors present no data showing the presence of aflatoxin in any of their samples. So their caution is highly speculative and they should indicate that unless they provide data supporting their caution. As mentioned above, dynamic homeostatic processes limit the growth of microbes and fungi in living organisms and the authors point out that “several studies have demonstrated plant phytochemicals and terpenoids like eugenol can inhibit the growth of fungi. It is possible the different water activity of the culture assay compared to the natural terpene rich flower environment is contributing to the false negative test results.” but these phytochemicals may also prevent the growth of fungi and bacteria in the plant despite the presence of microbial DNA. Furthermore they state that “While techniques exist to perform live-dead qPCR, the live status of the microbes is unrelated to toxin potentially produced while the microbes were alive. ELISA assays exist to screen for some toxins. Current state-recommended ELISA’s do not detect citrinin or paxilline, the toxins produced by P. citrinum and P. paxilli, respectively. The predominance of these Penicillium species in a majority of the samples tested is interesting.” Ideally the authors would test for these toxins in their most positive samples. The authors state that, “Cannabidiol is often used at micromolar concentrations for seizure reduction implying sub-percentage contamination of paxilline could still be a concern” but this is highly speculative and the authors should de-emphasize the “concern” and state instead that if their results were verified by tests indicating high levels of paxilline then it may be cause for concern. The same is true for their concern about Citrinin and aflatoxin and the authors should state this. The authors state, “While ELISA assays are easy point of use tests that can be used to detect fungal toxins, they can suffer from lack of sensitivity and cross reactivity. ITS amplification and sequencing offers hypothesis-free testing that can complement the lack of specificity in ELISA assays.” ELISA and rapid diagnostic lateral flow tests are standard in the food safety industry for measuring toxins. I see no need to call into question protein based ELISA methods without even testing them in the first place. All diagnostic tests have sensitivity and selectivity limitations which is why they need to be tested and verified using other analytical methods. The authors state that “Appropriate primer design can survey a broad spectrum of microbial genomes while affording rapid iteration of design. Quantitative PCR has also demonstrated single molecule sensitivity and linear dynamic range over 5 orders of magnitude offering a very robust approach for detection of microbial risks. This may be important for the detection of nanomolar potency mycotoxins”. The ability to detect single copies of genes makes their system highly sensitive, but does not indicate level of mycotoxin. The authors should point out the limitations of their approach and discuss the possibility that it would likely generate a high degree of false positive results compared to culture-based standard methods. The authors state, “These results demonstrate that culture based techniques superimposed from the food industry should be re-evaluated based on the known microbiome of actual Cannabis flowers in circulation at dispensaries.” This statement appears to be too strong in light of their data. Without validation for the presence of toxins above a safety threshold there is no need to re-evaluate the standard methods in the food industry.