Venkatraghavan et al present an interesting study of preoperative neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) in patients undergoing non-cardiac surgeries. While NLR has been studied extensively in acute and chronic cardiac conditions and in the setting of cardiac surgeries, there is scarce data about NLR in non-cardiac surgeries. It is unfortunate that the authors did not look at mortality or morbidity endpoints, rather this is a cross sectional study looking at prevalence of risk factors and correlation with ASA and RCRI scores preoperatively. Suggested revisions: 1. Introduction, first paragraph: In the sentence "Prospective identification of high risk pts..... and to avoid unplanned readmissions". How will identification of high risk preop patients avoid unplanned readmissions? This sentence is confusing and I would recommend the authors deleting the part which says "to avoid unplanned readmissions". 2. Results: Use numbers instead of words e.g. use 1,173 instead of one thousand one hundred seventy three. 3. Table 1: Please include type of surgery in table 1 (e.g. orthopedic, neurosurgery, etc.) 3. Table 1: Medications: Please lump together 4,5, or 6 medications as 4 or more medications, since the definition of polypharmacy is 4 or more medications. 4. (Major concern) Results: Table 2 clearly shows that for NLR 3.3, the independent predictors are age, CHF and malignancy, but the authors mention CHF, DM and malignancy in the text. Kindly address this discrepancy. 4. (Major concern) Results: Number of medications: It seems that the authors conducted logistic regression with either NLR3.3 or NLR4.5 as the dependent variable and number of medications as an independent, continuous variable. This is incorrect . One cannot assume the number of medications to have a continuous effect. The authors need to change their analysis, and incorporate number of medications as a categorical variable with categories: zero (referent), 1, 2, 3 and 4 or more. There will be separate odds ratios for categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 or more (the authors may elect to choose different categories, but it is important that they use categories rather than a continuous variable). This may change the results, esp for NLR 4.5. 5. (Major concern) Results: The authors need to explain in greater detail how they performed analysis with NLR and ASA and NLR and RCRI. Was NLR treated as a continuous variable or in categories3.3 or 4.5? What was the dependent variable? I am assuming that the authors performed logistic regression analysis with ASA or RCRI as the dependent variable and NLR as the independent variable in a continuous fashion, but this needs to be explicitly stated, since it helps in understanding what the odds ratios mean. 6. What about dividing NLR into tertiles or quartiles instead of using the said cut offs, since there are not established cut offs for NLR? 7. Discussion, first paragraph: The association that the authors observe in this study between NLR and CHF and NLR and malignancy is just that- an association. The authors cannot infer that this means that either NLR is associated with long term outcomes in CHF (ref 19) or prognostic value of NLR in cancer (ref 20). I would therefore strongly recommend the authors to remove those two lines from the first paragraph of discussion. 8. Discussion, Third paragraph (no. of meds): This may have to be re-written after the authors re-analyze the data with no. of meds as a categorical variable. 9. The authors do have interesting findings and I was hoping to see if preoperative NLR predicts outcomes (morbidity and mortality or major cardiac events) in the postoperative period. Moreover, if NLR does predict outcomes in the postoperative period, it may be used to re-classify the existing ASA and RCRI indices for non-cardiac surgeries. The authors should mention this in discussion or conclusion as future studies that may be undertaken in this subject.