Authors have produced a smart phone app, and I would like to congratulate them for good work. Here, I provide some comments: Introduction is brief; there is no background and rational provided, which can justify the need of such application. Moreover, there are no details provided of similar smart phone applications and other related platforms (e.g. web, desktop etc.). I would suggest to address these points comprehensively and add comparative analysis of their app with other related applications, including a table based on common and variable features would be helpful. As authors are interested in publishing their app as a scientific contribution, it’s important to have scientific justifications and discussion. At this time paper is more like a brief report. Methodology; why Android based smart phone app, why not iOS? Is data behind the app (collection of databases) freely accessible to the users, so they can download, and even verify the results and with other referenced databases? If not, then mention it in the paper, and give reasons for that. As this is an open source work, and data is collected from multiple open sources, its expected to have access to the data linked at the backend. Authors have mentioned list of databases, it’s important to mention licensing information of those database, to avoid any conflict of interest. Moreover, its important to clearly mention it in the conflict of interest section. Author’s contribution are missing, it’s also important to list those. I would suggest to write supplementary material and there explain the app in detail (step-by-step). Guide a new user as to how to get access to the app and how each interface can be used, and what are expected inputs/outputs. Furthermore, if word count restriction does not allow, then further extend supplementary material and provide comprehensive details of software implementation, database design and data workflow with rational for choosing those options. Make some diagrams (based on software engineering concepts) explaining design and implementation parts. I would suggest authors to also mention: Current limitations of the app. Current advantages of the app, which signifies it technically and scientifically. What were the major technical, non-technical, and scientific difficulties they have faced while designing and developing this app. Future recommendations, in their view and for other readers. Regarding Figures; Figure 1 seems isolated. I would rather suggest make one good multi panel Figure, and add 1, 2, 3, 4 to that. 