Silva et al. developed a new package TCGAbiolinksGUI which provides an easy way to query, download and analyze TCGA datasets. It would be a useful tool for bioinformaticians also non-bioinformaticians to process and get use of the massive TCGA datasets. Besides taking care of downloading the TCGA datasets, TCGAbiolinksGUI package also provides basic functions/plots to process mutation/expression/methylation datasets. Additionally, TCGAbiolinksGUI performs integrative analysis of methylation and gene expression and does motif finding on the inferred regulatory network. The TCGAbiolinksGUI has a very modern UI design, quite sophisticated programming and very friendly user interface. The structure of the analysis workflow is very clear. Besides that, it also has very detailed documentations even with videos. For the functionalities TCGAbiolinksGUI has already implemented, basically they are nice and I don't have major issues on it. For some reason, I only tested TCGAbiolinksGUI with version 1.4.7 (the release version on Bioc at the time of reviewing this paper) and R version 3.4.4. I had some errors when testing some of the functionalities for which I think it should due to the lower version I was using and I would expect they should work OK with the development version. Following are my minor comments: 1. There are some low-level errors which cause TCGAbiolinksGUI() function crashed and the webpage closed. E.g. when I tried to use "network inference" or "maftools plots", it gave error "no minet function/no read.maf function". I would guess it's mainly due to I was using the old version of this package. But it would be nice to capture these low-level errors also and print them in the web interface without stopping `TCGAbiolinksGUI()`. Also in DEA analysis, if group column is not set, `TCGAbiolinksGUI()` stops. 2. In many analysis where "group column" is needed, there are so many "clinical information fields" in the drop-down list. Is it possible to remove some of them? e.g. sample Ids or columns with too many missing values, or these numeric columns which I think they would never be used in group comparisons. 3. When a file is selected, there is no information on the web interface to tell users whether the file is selected or which file is selected. 4. For DEA analysis, if group levels which are used for comparison are forgot to provides, the error information is not informative ("Each group should have at least one sample") 5. When I do enrichment analysis for differentially expressed genes, I directly used the file generated at the "DEA analysis" step. However, it gave the error "no Gene_symbol column", but I checked there does have a "Gene_symbol" column (which is the first column in the file). I guess it might due to I was using the old version of the package. 6. When making heatmaps for different genes or DMRs, it is possible to put the grouping information which was used for comparision as default column annotation? I think it won't be too difficult because the group column and group levels are encoded in the file name of DEA or DMR file. 7. Is it possible to export the R code of making each plot (or performing each analysis)? Users can use these R scripts as template and customize later. E.g. since there is no option to configure the annotation colors, with the R script, users can adjust this part by themselves later. 