Buonarati et al. provide a long overdue answer to a previous publication in NEURON (their ref Michailidis et al, . 2014) which reported the possibility of proteolytic processing of Cav1.2 Ca 2+ channel a1-subunits within the II-III cytoplasmic loop giving rise to a 150 kDa polypeptide. Based on this finding further experiments suggested a functional role of this "midchannel proteolysis", in particular a homeostatic feedback regulation affecting neuronal signaling. However, these findings were heavily criticized by experts familiar with the biochemistry of Cav1.2 channels because essential controls for the existence of such a 150 kDa polypeptide were missing in the publication of Michailidis et al. (2014) 1 . First, the widely established and accepted golden standard to verify the specificity of antibodies is to use identically prepared samples from knockout animals. In the case of Cav1.2 these animals are widely available from several groups and frozen brains can be easily shipped on ice. Second, the molecular mass standards used in the paper to provide convincing support for such a far-reaching conclusion are insufficiently described. Third, no efforts have been made to systematically verify the mass of the 150 kDa polypeptide by a recombinant HEK-293 cell – expressed protein of the proposed sequence (also standard in the field). Given the potential impact of the existence of midchannel proteolysis for the Ca 2+ channel field it is difficult to rationalize why reviewers of this paper have not insisted on these simple controls. Fortunately, Buonarati and colleagues have now performed exactly these experiments at the highest possible technical level. And it is therefore not surprising that they cannot confirm a significant level of midchannel proteolysis in mouse or rat brain, even under conditions very similar to those used by Michailidis et al .. The experiments were repeated with 6 different antibodies, carefully selected molecular mass markers and also using different polyacrylamide concentrations to account for the possible aberrant migration of these large membrane proteins. Their findings are clearly presented and nicely discussed and offer several potential explanations for the discrepant findings. In summary, this publication is an excellent contribution to this field and will hopefully end the discussion about midchannel proteolysis. 