In the study, the authors evaluated the expression of MUC1 and E-cadherin by immunohistochemistry to determine their role in endometrial receptivity and correlated with the IVF outcome. The study was performed to develop cost effective laboratory investigation as opposed to expensive ERA. However, they did not find statistically significant correlation in case of both the markers. The manuscript is well written in different sections of introduction, methods, results and discussion. However, following are the comments related to the study design and conclusion of the study: In the “procedure performed at CARe’’ section, it has been stated that ‘The procedure was performed by a competent physician on the 21 st day of natural cycle or on a day accordingly adjusted for irregular, longer or hormone assisted cycle immediately before the commencement of IVF cycle’. Please explain following points: In case of natural cycle, whether the ovulation was detected by follicular monitoring or LH to determine the window of implantation e.g. LH+6/7? In case of women with irregular menstrual cycle, or hormone assisted cycle, how the adjustment was done? which day was considered for endometrial receptivity? In the case group (n=17), how many of the cases were included from natural cycle and how many were adjusted hormonally? Whether the authors have compared these two groups separately? In the study, the patients were selected as cases or controls based on their IVF outcome. Please mention whether all the cases and controls are given similar regimen of hormones or same the hormonal protocol? Whether the patients with PCOS, endometriosis and other hormonal abnormalities were excluded? In table 1, it has been stated that endometrial biopsy was taken on Day 12 of the menstrual cycle for four patients (which are from the control group). It means that in controls, the endometrial biopsy was taken during proliferative phase. To have comparison of the women with IVF success and women with IVF failure, the endometrial biopsy should be on same day i.e during the window of implantation especially when authors aim to study the endometrial receptivity based on IVF outcome. Please explain this important point in detail. As mentioned in the last paragraph of discussion, please explain how the present study results can be used to predict individualized WOI? Whether the tissue samples stored in trizol or RNA later? Can the markers be correlated with mRNA levels (gene expression levels)? Based on the previous reports, hundreds of genes are involved in the receptivity of endometrium. For instance ERA predicts the day of personalized ET based on m RNA levels of 238 genes. Therefore, it would be difficult to predict the IVF outcome based on only 2 genes. The panel of some of the genes needs to be performed by IHC to achieve the scientific conclusion of designing the low cost alternative diagnostic tool like ERA. With respect to the study outcomes are concerned i.e. development of cost-effective immunohistochemistry based test to be a predictor of IVF outcome: The sample size of the study is low The ratio of cases Vs Controls is low (17Vs4) The study should have a third group of healthy fertile women as a reference group which would be the actual control group comparing fertile (natural) Vs infertile (IVF)Vs Fertile (IVF) women I recommend the manuscript for indexing only after the satisfactory explanation of above queries. 