In this study, the authors investigated the hemostatic status of liver transplant recipients one year after transplantation, finding a prothrombotic profile based on activated endothelial markers coupled to a hypofibrinolytic state. It point out a very relevant clinical problem as it is the thrombotic complications in the post transplant period. The aim and methods are well defined and well performed, however I would like the authors address some aspects about the study population: The study population shows several factors which have clearly impact on the endothelial function, apart from immunosuppressive therapy. In order to obtain more information from the data, I suggest that the authors discuss the differences, if any, about the more relevant results: VW, VIII, sP-selectin, TFPI and PAI-1 according to the following sub-groups of patients: Diabetes Cardiovacular disease Etiology of liver disease - Given that a hypercoagulable/hypofibrinolytic state has been suggested in several of the reported etiologies in the study group (biliary cirrhoris, NASH, familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy) those reversibilities after liver transplantation have not been proven. Immunosuppressive regiment. To discard that some of the aforementioned conditions confers a risk extra for thrombosis. Otherwise, patients had a decreased ETP compared to controls, both in presence and absence of thrombomodulin. The ETP ratio, an index of the anticoagulant capacity of the protein C system defined as the ratio of the ETP with-to-without thrombomodulin was significantly lower in patients compared to controls but interestingly, there was no difference in protein C levels between both groups. Five patients were on platelet aggregation inhibitors. Levels of sP-selectin were similar in patients that were on aspirin compared to those who were not. Could the authors make some comment about this? Aspirin resistance in this population could be suggested? Although the size and the characteristics of the study population entail some limitations, it is a good starting point (never addressed before), for further studies with a larger sample.