In this manuscript, Saha and Battle describe how errors in the genomic alignment of RNA-seq data can confound specific downstream analyses. Specifically, the focus on the discovery of trans-eQTLs and on co-expression analysis. Surprisingly, they find that, when a "naive" pipeline is used for trans-eQTL discovery, up to 75% of the trans-eQTL events detected may be false positives resulting from cross-mappability (the type of alignment error they discuss and characterize). In addition to describing this phenomenon, and demonstrating its effect on trans-eQTL and co-expression analysis, the authors also propose a new "cross-mappability" score, which allows one to map out which genes in a reference are likely to suffer from the types of spurious alignments, and subsequently, spurious correlations, that are described. The idea of cross-mappability seems a useful and logical extension of the mappability concept, where one is instead interested in which pairs or groups of genes share homologous sequence. The authors also provide pre-computed cross-mappability scores for hg19 and GRCh38. The paper is well-written, and the issues that the authors raise are important ones. It suggests that researchers should be cautious in interpreting the results of eQTL and co-expression analyses, and, importantly, provides them with tools to reassess their data and help control for the strong potential confounding factor of cross-mappability. I believe this is an important contribution. My main questions and comments about the manuscript concern cross-mappability scores, and the alignment errors that lead to the observed problems. Though the authors only explore the effect of alignment errors on eQTL and co-expression analysis, it seems that these types of issues could affect most analyses involving spliced-mapping of RNA-seq data to the reference genome. Specifically, the type of alignment errors illustrated in Figure 1 (A) would affect even basic expression quantification, let-alone co-expression analysis. This is particularly true for reads where this effect persists even when one considers only reads aligned uniquely by the tool. What would cause the aligner to return only a single (incorrect) locus for the read when multiple equally-good alignments should exist? Are the alignments contiguous at one locus but spliced at the other, or is the manner in which the read would align to the "true" and "spurious" locus different? Interestingly, it seems as though the cross-mappability map could act as a sort of homology table 1 that might even be useful for correcting these spurious alignments, or at least suggesting the true locus as an equally-good match. Given that cross mappability is computed by mapping specific k-mers back to the genome (allowing up to 2 mismatches) using Bowtie, how does it deal with accounting for k-mers that span splicing junctions? It seems to me that the specific case where reads map to pseudogenes rather than what is presumed to be the true (protein-coding) locus of the read could be explained by regions of the genome that are contiguous (un-spliced) in the pseudogene, but which span a splicing junction in the protein coding gene. If the cross-mappability score doesn't account for the cross-mappability of k-mer that may span splice junctions, then it seems it might miss such important cases. However, given that the score is computed assuming some known annotation, it would be possible to explicitly extract appropriately-sized contexts around each known splicing junction, and to include them into the reference that Bowtie maps against when computing the cross-mappability scores. How would the cross-mappability scores change if they also accounted for junction-spanning k-mers rather than just genomically contiguous k-mers? Related to the above point, but thinking in the other direction, might the cross-mappability scores be too "conservative" in some cases? Specifically, the scores are computed using k-mers that are the length of relatively short reads for exons, and k-mers that are much shorter than typical reads for UTRs. However, the ambiguity of these sequences individually may not be sufficient to induce a false alignment when the reads being processed are paired-end reads. In that case, one would expect misalignments to require that there be sequence ambiguity supporting both ends of the sequencing read in order for the read to align, concordantly, to the wrong locus. The GTEx data that was analyzed relies on spliced alignment to the genome using STAR, and I presume the same tools were used to analyse the DGN cohort data (is this correct?). It would be enlightening to see if and how results would change if the reads were instead aligned using HISAT2. I am aware, for example, that HISAT2 takes special measures to avoid aligning reads to pseudogenes when similar quality alignments to transcripts of other biotypes are available (personal communication with Daehwan Kim). This may have some effect on the type and magnitude of false alignments you see (though, certainly, will not account for all of them). Likewise, it would be very interesting to see how the analyses differ if alignment is done directly to the transcriptome using, e.g., Bowtie2 ( the authors already mention this possibility in the discussion section). I agree with Mike Love's suggestion that it seems important to explore the extent to which this effect may be mitigated by adopting more accurate methods for gene expression quantification. 