 The reference that delay of CPR leads to 10% per minute reduction in survival is from a 10 year old reference. Given the changes in CPR administration and training over the past 10 years (such as no breath CPR) is there a more up-to-date figure? The details of what specifically was examined are limited? What were the specific score parameters for the theoretical and for the practical sections? As there is no global agreement as to the standards of acceptability of homogeneity and the fact that the values are almost always determined post hoc, and the admission that this is the first study of its type, what standard was used to determine that 50% was acceptable and how was this tested to determine if it was met at the end of the study? Sample size is usually determined as the basis of the smallest intended group for analysis not for over-all sample size. Given that the individual critical areas samples are small this should be addressed in the limitations. The study is actually a repeated measures study and should be addressed as such. Little demographic data is presented in the text but the reader is referred to the available data to do their own determination. Table 1 of the study should be a demographics table by the three groups. Statistical results presentations are undergoing evolution with less emphasis being placed on p values (see recent NEJM announcements). Each statistical finding should be presented with the statistic which provides information on the likelihood of observing a specific value using a specific analysis and should include a 96% Confidence Interval estimate for each difference noted. These two pieces of information provide different information. One is the likelihood of an observed value and the other is an estimate of the magnitude of the difference between the groups. For example: "...the difference between the groups was 15.7 [t=3.67,df 2, p0.05 95%CI +/- 3.6],...." Table 1 should include N's for each group especially if the numbers changed from post test to follow-up. There is information on the field of learning and practice effect including that learning occurs in plateau fashion. Students show learning growth, reach a plateau even while practising, then gain again in step increase manner. So it is not just the frequency of practice but also the tracking of students' skills to identify when they have reached a plateau and need to be pushed through it to reach proficiency. The study focuses on pre-post-follow-up differences. Unless it was missing in reading there was no measurement against a minimally acceptable standard. For example in Table 1 Emergencies and Disasters had a post practical score of 79%. Does this mean that their score is so bad that they should be prevented from administering CPR? What is the acceptable standard? Thank you for the opportunity to review this article. 