The authors present a historical review of the origin of "perspective" in economic evaluation, and proceed to critique the standardisation of perspective, proposing that it is inherently context-specific. The paper is interesting and well written. I would make the following points: If we accept that guidelines for EE written by e.g. Drummond et al. are intended for evaluation of healthcare interventions, with the decision problem being to adopt or not adopt a new technology, and that these guidelines are at least implicitly developed with the UK context in mind, this means that - yes - the guidelines are intended to generalise away from a specific context (the technology) - but - they also generalise within a specific context (the health system). The same can be said for methods guidance published by NICE. So there are situations where the end users of evidence are issuing guidance on the approach to EE generation, to determine best practices and what evidence is acceptable to the decision problem. The authors concede this, I believe, when they write in conclusion "if the sponsors of a study intend it to inform policy decisions (public or otherwise) the decision makers’ perspectives should be adopted (along with others deemed to be relevant by the sponsors)". This should mean that not all standardisation of perspective is necessarily bad. Further to point 1, if the authors believe that each EE study intended to inform a public healthcare payer perspective should have its perspective built from scratch, how would the consumer of the evidence (the payer) avoid "cherry picking" by the sponsor (a manufacturer) of the most economically advantageous outcomes of the new technology under consideration? And if the perspective should not be built from scratch, how is that different from accepting to have some form of standardised guidance on perspective? The authors also note capacity as a constraint in LMIC's, it seems point 2 would pose an even more substantial risk of "evidence capture" in such settings, where the majority of resource and technical capacity could easily be on the sponsor side, and not the evidence user side. In such cases, the capacity of the evidence user to articulate their needs could be severely limited. So, while I fully agree that the choice of perspective should be determined by the user of the evidence, I think the authors should revisit their arguments against guidelines on perspective with the points above in mind. Are there cases where it is desirable to have standardised perspective guidance? What are the situations where it is undesirable - presumably where it is simply the result of asserting academic authority or other vested interest? 