The authors have hit on a very important issue here, and I am really pleased to see ongoing discussions of how undergraduate science education can be better tailored to students needs. The authors also introduce interesting and relevant examples of integrated curriculum topics (such as green chemistry) and of successful STEM career programs (such as Connecticut Colleges Career Enhancing Life Skills). Given the importance of these issues, I would really encourage the authors to look at how the argument might be strengthened, in particular with support from empirical and peer-reviewed sources. The authors are clear in their views in a way that is appropriate for an opinion piece, but the factual claims that are made in service of the overall argument need better supporting sources. I understand that this is an opinion piece and am not suggesting an exhaustive review of the literature, just attention to a few key findings related to the arguments that are made here. For example, some claims are supported with weak evidence from opinion articles from media sources rather than empirical and peer-reviewed sources. E.g., Too many students graduate with heavy debt and are ill-equipped to thrive in todays job market (p. 2) citing only Carpentier (2014), an opinion piece from the NYT that is supported with only an online survey from a job search website. Similarly the claim about the substance of employers complaints about graduates (p. 2) is supported with a brief news article about a poll commissioned by an online homework help website. It would be important to at least examine the full report to ensure that the data is appropriate for making claims in an academic opinion piece. Other claims are made with no support at all, e.g., Many students pursue additional graduate training simply because they are not aware of other ways in which their undergraduate science degree could be used. (p. 2). A claim that quantitative skills are an example of highly transferable skills that are valued by employers is also unsupported. Off hand I dont know of any studies that specifically address quantitative skills as valued by employers but it could fall within the mismatch that Hernndez‐March et al (2009) find in field-specific practical skills that employers desire but perceive that students lack. Sagen, Dallam and Laverty (2000) also find that quantitative training is related to job search success for undergraduates though they do not examine employers desires directly. The paragraph that spans p. 2-3 describes several good examples such as Mount Holyoke and Keck Graduate Institute. It is a good illustration of beginning share examples and best practices, as the authors advocate in their conclusion. It could, again, be stronger if there were connections to some of the published case studies that try to assess claims like these in relation to specific programs, e.g., Junge et al (2010). Links to published case studies would also be very valuable in supporting the suggestion that publishers offer more venues for sharing best practices, challenges and successes. It would be important to acknowledge the venues that do exist, while also advocating for more. Overall, I commend the authors on tackling a very important issue and encourage their efforts to push this discussion forward. I think that their argument could be greatly strengthened, however, with better attention to at least a few key pieces of the literature in the area of workplace and employability programs in undergraduate education. They would find good support for their overall aims but also be able to make more nuanced arguments about how the important goal of improving undergraduate science education can be accomplished. To that end, here are a few pieces that might be of interest to the authors: Cranmer, S. (2006) . Enhancing graduate employability: best intentions and mixed outcomes. Studies in Higher Education , 31 (2), 169-184. A study of university departments examining their faculty members practices for teaching employability skills with attention to how well their goals are achieved. Coll, R. K., Zegwaard, K. E. (2006). Perceptions of desirable graduate competencies for science and technology new graduates. Research in Science Technological Education , 24 (1), 29-58. Study of various stakeholders (including both employers and faculty) on what skills and competencies they prioritize, with a specific focus on work-integrated learning. Hernndez‐March, J., Martn del Peso, M., Leguey, S. (2009). Graduates skills and higher education: The employers perspective. Tertiary Education and Management , 15 (1), 1-16. A large study of Spanish HR directors and company managers to examine what they see as required skills and what mismatches they perceive between undergraduate training and job requirements. Burke, V., Jones, I., Doherty, M. (2005). Analysing student perceptions of transferable skills via undergraduate degree programmes. Active Learning in Higher Education , 6 (2), 132-144. This is a case study of students at one undergraduate institution, examining their perceptions of the skills they have developed during their degree programs and how confident they are in their abilities to transfer those skills to a workplace environment. Sagen, H. B., Dallam, J. W., Laverty, J. R. (2000) . Effects of career preparation experiences on the initial employment success of college graduates. Research in Higher Education , 41 (6), 753-767. A large study looking the factors that predict employment success of college graduates one month after graduation. Their regression model looked at a wide variety of factors from internship experiences to personal characteristics. Junge, B., Quiones, C., Kakietek, J., Teodorescu, D., Marsteller, P. (2010) . Promoting undergraduate interest, preparedness, and professional pursuit in the sciences: an outcomes evaluation of the SURE program at Emory University. CBE-Life Sciences Education , 9 (2), 119-132. A long term evaluation study of a summer research program that aimed to increase student preparedness for both graduate school and industry.