The authors describe a novel pipeline for mapping and littering of Hi-C data and demonstrate evidence that duplicate di-tags are PCR artifacts. This pipeline has already been successfully used in several studies. Following is a list of questions and comments that should be addressed by the authors to improve the clarity of their manuscript. How does the pipeline handle the case of restriction sites that are very close to the beginning of a read? Is there a minimum size for a truncated read to be included in the analysis? The “Relegation of adjacent restriction fragments” section is not completely clear to me. Fragment nr. 4 in Figure 2b could be quite large and removing fragments which include 2 restriction sizes might remove true events corresponding to local looping of the DNA. Is there any experimental evidence that such fragments are predominantly artifacts of re-ligation or incomplete digestion and should be excluded? Or are the authors using the theoretical length of the Hi-C insert to inform this type of filtering? A more explicit description of size-selection would be beneficial here. The authors present evidence that duplicate di-tags are PCR artifacts. This is in true for the standard Hi-C protocol, which from what I can see, was used to generate the datasets described in the result section. Because the HiCUP pipeline has been developed to handle the double-digestion protocol as well, could the author comment about duplicate di-tags and PCR artifacts in this context? With a double digestion protocol, the probability of truly obtaining the same fragment multiple times is much higher because the DNA is cut at fixed locations (as opposed to randomly via sonication). The pipeline removes fragments with insert size less than expected by size selection. Structural variation (e.g. deletions) could yield di-tags with larger than expected theoretical insert size. Such di-tags would be valid and informative. Either an exploration or discussion of how structural variation affects this filtering step would be be helpful. The percentages reported in Table 3 are difficult to interpret and compare. They clearly do not sum to 100%, so the authors should provide a more detailed description of what each percentage corresponds to (e.g. % of total reads or % of total mapping reads, etc.). 