I appreciate the revisions, and I think that the new version is clearer and more complete than the previous one. I still have a few minor concerns/suggestions: addressing these will, in my opinion, enhance the clarity and impact of this work. I still think it’s important to mention in this paper (ideally in the Methods section) that the modelled synaptic inputs come from a current-based synapse model. That information is present in Ref. 6 of course, but it should be here for completeness. That way, without reading Ref. 6, readers will be able to understand why all the neurons (e.g., in Fig.1) get the same input current trace, even though they have different voltage time series: with conductance-based synapses, identical synaptic conductance inputs would lead to different current input time series. Some of the claims should be softened a bit, in my opinion. In so doing, they would be better supported by the data that’s shown. For example, in reference to Fig. 2 (p. 5): “We stimulate the same neurons with the correlated input and observe the spike pattern (Figure 2). We can show that the frequency-specificity of the neuron disappears.”. This isn’t quite what the data show: the data show a strongly reduced difference in ISI distributions (vs. Fig. 1), but there is still a remaining difference. So it’s not the case that the difference has “disappeared”. The same comment applies to the discussion of Fig. 5 (top of p.6): “the ISIs become identical, but with a wider distribution to reflect the different duration of pauses between the synchronous stimulation”. The ISI distributions shown in Fig. 5 are very similar, but they aren’t quite *identical*. So I’d suggest softening the language a bit in these places, to be more precise about what’s actually shown. I don’t think these changes much affect the conclusions of the paper, but they do make the text more accurate. The discussion of Fig. 4 in the text is a good example of what I’m recommending: there, the distributions are described as *nearly* identical, which is a fair description at least for cells 1,2,4,5. Bottom of p. 8, “We now stimulate the graph by an initial stimulation to 10 randomly selected excitatory neurons (for about 1 second).” I still think it’s important to be clear about the protocol used for this stimulation. Was it with constant current injection? Was it with fluctuating current traces mimicking asynchronous inputs like in Fig. 1A, or with fluctuating current input mimicking synchronous input like in Fig. 2A? Moreover, was it the same current input for all neurons, or did they have different current inputs? Providing this information will give the reader context to understand and evaluate your methods, and the corresponding findings. 