This study has evaluated antibacterial efficacy of a colloidal silver gel against three important oral bacteria. In context of the currently available dentifrice products not being full effective in preventing the widespread problem of dental caries, need and research for new more effective dentifrices is justified. Their idea of assaying the test gel not only against individual bacteria, but also against the mixed-species is a logical one, as that represents real-life situations a bit more closely. In the recent past, maintenance of good oral health has been shown to be important for good cardiovascular health, healthy pregnancy, etc. They may consider re-framing the last sentence of the third paragraph in 'Introduction'. They may also check for correct placement of all references; For e.g. references 2-3 have been cited in first paragraph in an oral health context, but their titles seem to be more relevant to wound management. While, I do not have any reservations in recommending this article in its present form for indexing, I suggest for following additional experiments for future studies by these authors: Effect of this gel on pre-formed biofilms of oral bacteria should be checked on two different parameters i.e. whether this gel can kill bacteria in biofilm, and whether it can eradicate the pre-formed biofilm with/without killing the bacteria in it. Results of current study indicate their gel to possess a bactericidal action. They may consider extending the incubation till 48-72 hours after transferring the gel-exposed bacteria onto fresh gel-free media, to confirm the true bactericidal effect, and absence of post-antibiotic effect (PAE). They may consider determination of MIC, MBC, and time required to kill. The latter is important as typical dentifrice products like mouthwashes/toothpaste get few seconds/minutes to exert their effect in the mouth. It will be interesting to investigate whether at sub-inhibitory concentrations their product can reduce lactic acid production by the Streptococci, which is a major virulence factor involved in demineralization of teeth. Whether sub-inhibitory concentrations can inhibit quorum-sensing in these bacteria? In the current study, cellulose discs were used as surface for biofilm formation. In future studies, they may consider some material similar to teeth-substance (e.g. calcium) as the surface for biofilm formation. 