I congratulate Elwan N et al for their efforts. The research ideas being brought forward in this manuscript are worth appreciation. However, the authors need to address the following deficiencies before any consideration for final publication is made. 1) TITLE: This needs to be modified. I will suggest to rephrase it as, “ Effects of Simvastatin on portal pressure in patients with cirrhosis”. 2) ABSTRACT: Please avoid using abbreviations in the abstract. Moreover, abbreviations need to be written in full on their first appearance in a given article. In my opinion, the term PHT should therefore be expanded. The term “hypotensive agents” must be rephrased as “one of the portal hypotensive agents”. 3) INTRODUCTION: In para 4, the authors write that simvastatin can be used safely in patients with chronic liver disease. I will need an explanation for this as at what stage can it be more effective and safer? This is because, advanced liver disease in itself leads to hypolipidemia which in itself is a worse prognostic indicator. 4) METHODS: The sample size is small. I will recommend more participants. Regarding group 1, why were they segregated into two subgroups in terms of the dosage of simvastatin? If they were done so, why were the effects of the dosage on portal pressure not provided in the results/discussion sections? Moreover, was there any difference in the final outcomes because of the different dosages? The authors write that the patients were continued on their usual antihypertensive and diabetic medications. Were any potential drug-drug interactions excluded? Moreover, I will be interested in knowing the antihypertensive medications (esp ACEi/ARBs as they have antifibrotic and anti inflammatory effects). 5) RESULTS: Th authors mention that all the patients included in the study had cirrhosis secondary to chronic viral hepatitis. Hence, the results can not be generalized to all forms of cirrhosis and either the title needs to be modified accordingly or more patients need to be recruited to better measure the etiology-outcome effect. In para 2, PVD in group 1 was 13.2 in contrast to group 2 where it was 14.8. Hence, there was a difference at baseline. This contradicts their statement that there was no difference in mean PVDs at baseline. 6) DISCUSSION: The authors are requested to avoid repetition of the facts already mentioned in Introduction and Methods etc. The para 1 of discussion can therefore be either modified or removed. In para 3, the authors mention that PVD was higher in group 2 than in group 1. This is against their statement in Results as explained above. Moreover, as group 1 had a lower PVD at baseline, can the lowering effect of simvastatin be purely a chance finding? Therefore, it is suggested to include more patients in the study group. 7) CONCLUSION: Please make the conclusion more succinct and comprehensive. Thank you. 