Comments: The work by Giansanti et al . presents a novel and smart idea for scATAC-seq data analysis. It demonstrates the possibility of using a reference-based, pseudo-alignment method to reduce the computational requirement for scATAC-seq data analysis, with only a little sacrifice on precision. The idea is inspired by the using of pesudoalignment for bulk and single-cell RNA-seq quantification. Here they showed that with some tweaking of the input sequencing reads, they could use kallisto to analyze scATAC-seq data on a pre-defined set of DNase hypersensitive sites. They compared their results with the standard protocol (e.g. cellranger-atac ) for peak quantification, single cell clustering, marker peaks identification, and gene activity score calculation. The results very nicely revealed the consistency on peak quantification between kallisto -based method and cellranger-atac . The cell clusterings were almost identical between the new reference-based method and canonical mapping strategy. And the gene activity scores by two different methods also agreed well with each other. The approach presented in this study thus could be a very efficient way for scATAC-seq data analysis. The following are a few comments/questions: The method was only tested with one dataset - PMBC. In fact, single cell ATAC-seq data is usually very sparse. The PMBC dataset used in this study is of relatively high quality. The method remains to be tested on more datasets, especially on those of more sparse, lower-quality. The key advantage of the method is presumably the much improved computational efficiency – there may be other advantages brought by the reference-based method. However, there is no results/statistics on the running time and memory usage in the manuscript. From the description, the improvement should be dramatic. I think it would be very nice to include a table or a figure to demonstrate the increase of computational efficiency. This could be a very helpful way to convince potential users. As in the above, this whole strategy is so different. It is thus possible for the method to be used for some other scATAC-seq data analysis with advantages not only in computational efficiency. It would be good for the authors to explore. The manuscript is well organized with the core ideas clearly described. But the presentation could be improved - there are a lot of very long sentences unnecessarily connected by “and”, “while”, etc. The legend for Fig 1A says “The first (DHS) generated by kallisto on ~2M DNase I sites … ”, but according to the figure and the main text, it should be“~3M”? 