When dealing with multiple high throughput sequencing experiments, especially for core facilities, you need to pay great attention to quality controls. Contaminations from different species you are working with are one of the potential problems you can encounter. The FastQ Screen software as been designed by Steven Wingett and Simon Andrews in order to solve this drawback. Using different mapping softwares, FastQ Screen allows to identify from the reads present in your samples the different species they came from. The graphical and text outputs provided, detailed information on the potential level of contamination obtained. The software objectives are clearly explained just as the way to use it and how to interpret its outputs. FastQ Screen source code is available through GitHub and a documentation is provided on the authors’ website. This software is publicly available since several years and is used today by many genomics laboratories. The tool is very stable, the command line help is easy to understand and we not found any issue when we launch it in all our tests. Finally, the output report is informative and very clear. FastQ Screen is a must have tool for everyone working with multiple species samples or who want to prevent unpredicted contamination of its samples. Remarks 1. In order to more clearly explain the way FastQ Screen is working, more information should be provided on pre-defined reference genomes. How can it be chosen before running FastQ Screen. Is there a limitation among the number of genomes selected? Is there a significant impact on software running time according to the number or size of reference genomes selected? Is there a list of already available pre-defined reference genomes? Does it works using subset sequence database or with the whole genome? 2. It could also be interesting to get some information about the running time of several analyses. What are the specifications required for the computer needed to run FastQ Screen? I didn’t findd this information through the documentation. 3. It seems that FastQ Screen when processing large dataset (FASTQ files more than 100 million reads) use a large amount of memory as it store the identifier of each read. It may be useful to advise users in documentation about this issue. Minor remarks 1. For future evolution of FastQ Screen software it could be interesting to provide a clue for the “No Hits” reads obtained. In the paper the authors suggest to run BLAST analyses. Perhaps there is a way to use a subset of “NoHits” reads in order to guess where the possible contamination is coming from? 2. The link to the “Babraham Bioinformatics download page” in the documentation “https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastq_screen/_build/html/index.html#download” is not working 