Overall this is an extremely interesting thesis and lays out a lot of the current issues with “the pipeline” succinctly. I have made a number of suggestions that I hope the authors find interesting or useful in revising the paper, and a request for citations. I have marked the paper as approved but am hopeful the authors are receptive to revising based on comments below. Major comments: I would clarify when you are talking about a) biomedicine vs all fields and b) issues in the U.S. vs issues globally, where possible. For example, in the introduction you state: “Declining public funding for basic science” and cite examples that are particularly focused on biomedicine in the U.S. Checking throughout the manuscript to ensure that geographical/field limitations of data cited are highlighted and differentiated would be very helpful to see where issues can be generalized or not, and may led to further interesting insights where differences do or do not arise. While the biomedical enterprise in the U.S. is certainly useful as the “canary in the coalmine”, it would be interesting to set this in context. I would suggest looking into the work of Dr. Wayne Wahls 1 - 2 and Dr. Kenneth Gibbs Jr. 3 - 7 and also Levecque et al. 2017 8 and Piefer 2017 9 and considering citing/including any reactions to these in your discussions. In particular the work of Dr. Gibbs may also help inform a discussion throughout of diversity in terms of gender and race/ethnicity; a key strength of the ideas proposed in this paper is that it can tie into making an enterprise that would help people align their interests with the reasons to stay in various parts of the scientific ecosystem, and in particular diversifying academic faculty through a more fluid scientific ecosystem would be very interesting to explore here. Minor comments: Introduction: Suggest deleting “which are” in last sentence of third paragraph in introduction. “In 2016 $3 billion were invested into federal agencies to support STEM education programs” - another interesting number would be an estimated amount that is spent by the taxpayer on training writ broadly - i.e. not just training mechanisms and education programs, but also considering that 85% of grads and postdocs funded by NIH (including all foreigners) are not funded from NRSA training mechanisms. Or could it be approximated what proportion of NIH’s budget is linked to trainees in some way? It may also be worth mentioning the previous interest Congressionally in the sustainability of the training enterprise, which led to the creation of the NRSA (see p6 in Addressing the Nation's Changing Needs Report 10 ) - which contains, again, only 15% of its trainees. Box 1: “Postdoctoral training periods also continue to expand” - please provide a citation, or points of comparison i.e. specific lengths in specific years, also again specifying countr(y/ies) and field(s). One place to look for data that addresses that talking points may be the recent National Postdoc Survey 11 . In the discussion of the default faculty path it might be useful to include Dr. Paula Stephan’s analysis of NSF data showing the proportions of U.S. biological sciences PhDs entering particular job sectors 5 years post-PhD (only published in The Atlantic in https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2013/02/the-phd-bust-americas-awful-market-for-young-scientists-in-7-charts/273339/ ) and also Figure 2-1 in the NASEM “Breaking Through” report could be of interest too 12 . Dr. Stephan’s analysis in particular shows that tenure-track faculty positions have not been the principal (let alone majority) destination for PhDs for the lifetime of most Millenials, which allows you to qualify how outdated this mentality is. “unencumbered with children” - it may be worth looking further into this - in our analysis with the U.S. Census Bureau in http://sjscience.org/article?id=570 and the related Nature Comment piece 13 , The New Face of US science - the latter in particular points out specifically that men in their 30s are 7x more likely to have a non-working spouse, and many who are married tend to have children, and in fact there may be some discussion to be had about whether being married is beneficial. Men are more likely to be married than women, but women are more likely than men to be married to someone who is *also in the biomedical workforce*. Combining these factors with the advantage that tenure clock interventions designed for women actually confer on men ( http://sjscience.org/article?id=570 ) it may be that the “unencumbered with children” comment requires qualifying, or at least some rethinking/citations to show that being childless does confer an advantage. Again the National Postdoc Survey could be useful to check into here. Figure 1: I would suggest with industry also breaking out not only into academic/non-academic but also research/non-research. In preparing the National Academies report, Breaking Through you see in Figure 2-1 a representation of the phenomenon that many industry jobs are not bench-based, but are sales or managerial positions. Consultancy should also be a large group. This would be useful to illustrate the need for the ecosystem even more, as even “industry” is complicated. It might also be worth looking at the taxonomy work that has been going on nationally 14 . Fixing the pipeline: I was somewhat confused by the angle the authors were coming from in the last sentence in the “flow in the pipeline” discussion. Why would fewer scientists with more career stability be a bad thing in the tenure-track path? Are they proposing instead more scientists with more career stability, in a diverse range of careers? The authors should be careful not to fall into the “more scientists are better for society” argument, as data about the labor market and PhD outcomes is scarce but points to a massive gap in the labor market with supply far exceeding demand, across all jobs 15 . If however they are trying to make the argument that fixing flow is too restrictive a view/the issues that arise in focusing only on flow, I believe all but the last sentence support this view. Some expansion here to clarify what is meant would be helpful. Having read through the rest of the Fixing the Pipeline section I am satisfied that clarification is all that is needed here, because I get a strong sense of the line of argument in the other sections. The adapting to the pipeline argument is very well made. It could also be worth pointing out that this is causing pressure to extend the length of postdoc positions, because it is taking longer to get a position, rather than changing the system so that postdoc positions are not so long i.e. by evaluating metrics other than high IF publications in competition with other applicants. I am glad to see the argument being made about for-profit services, it might be worth considering also asking why institutions are not providing such services when they receive federal funds to train these trainees. In the thinking outside the pipeline section it could also be worth pointing out the lack of access to alumni networks, or the poor communication between academics and non-academics, and also the simple inability of mentors, no matter how well-meaning, to advise on careers they themselves do not know about. It is also worth considering that many trainees do not feel comfortable bringing up that they may wish to leave academia, even though the PI may be receptive to this idea. This is largely due to over-arching cultural expectations, which also include the idea that “to leave is to fail”, which could also be mentioned somewhere in here. Box 3 - It may also be worth suggesting a vital role professional societies can play in ensuring that “the field” is not synonymous with academia. There was a lot of excellent content in the description of the scientific ecosystem: I would suggest considering a way of placing key elements of this discussion in a figure, as there was a lot of information, and it was sometimes difficult to appreciate all the points being made. Some way of parsing out the information in a slightly more digestible format would be very helpful, to really draw in readers and highlight some of the excellent points made. 