The article entitled The ubiquitous and ancient ER membrane protein complex (EMC): tether or not? authored by Jeremy Wideman presents a solid bioinformatics argument that the EMC protein complex is highly conserved amongst eukaryotes. The EMC was originally identified in budding yeast as a 6 subunit complex (Emc1-6) with a role in protein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum ( Jonikas et al ., 2009 ). It was later expanded to 10 subunits (Emc1-10) in mammals based on proteomic work studying ER-associated degradation ( Christianson et al., 2011 ). This current bioinformatics study makes an nice contribution by showing that the whole complex (all ten subunits, with a few exceptions) is widely present in eukaryotes (including invertebrates, fungi and plants). Although overlooked in the original submission, the issue raised by one reviewer about Emc8 and Emc9 being paralogs has now been resolved by the author. My main issue with the article is the conclusion drawn by the author that the tethering function of the EMC (discovered by Lahiri et al ., 2014 ) is likely not its conserved function. This is arrived at by comparing EMC distribution among species with the presence of mitochondria/MROs. The article title also implies that the findings in this report call into question the role for the EMC in ER-mitochondrial tethering and PS transport (as its conserved function). I feel these are overstatements given the current analysis presented in the paper. Lahiri et al. , show interactions between the EMC and Tom5, although these are not demonstrated to be direct, and also state in their discussion that the EMC likely interacts with multiple subunits of the TOM complex (and cite unpublished data to the effect). Hence, judging a role for the EMC in tethering solely based on the presence Tom5 in species seems hardly sufficient to make such an argument. Lahiri et al. , demonstrate a role for tethering by the EMC in PS transport to mitochondria, the location of the phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (PSD) that converts the PS into PE. Hence, this transport step is required for PE synthesis by the PSD. Perhaps the author should investigate the coincidence of the EMC and mitochondrial-localized PSD enzymes in the species for which he uses to build arguments against a role for the EMC in tethering. A quick search revealed that two species mentioned in the paper, C. merolae and T. parva , which completely lack the EMC, contain PSD enzymes that lack mitochondrial-targeting signals (28% and 50% probability, respectively; compared to 95% for S. cerevisiae PSD); hence, the EMC would not be needed in these organisms for PE synthesis. The third EMC-lacking species mentioned, B. hominis , has a mitochondrial-targeted PSD (99.9% probability) and a second non-mitochondrial PSD (0.01% probability), indicating that there is not an absolute requirement for ER-mitochondrial PS transport and hence, for the EMC in PE synthesis in this species. If the author feels that an analysis of the co-occurrence of the EMC and mitochondrial-localized PSD enzymes (and/or TOM complex - all subunits) is beyond the scope of this paper, I feel the paper should be revised, including the title, to de-emphasize the argument that tethering is not a conserved function of the EMC. An additional minor point, the author should name Emc7 and Emc10 on the SGD website for the benefit of the yeast bioinformatic community.