The authors Powles and Ko now provide a revised version. Although this version is improved compared to the previous version, the authors did not follow my suggestion to revise the manuscript except for the sentences, which I explicitly stated. The manuscript is still full of awkward phrases, where it is clear what the authors want to say but which read wrong as they are written. It is not my but the authors’ task to carefully go through the manuscript and correct all these issues. Citations are still extremely unbalanced. In the introduction and discussion, citations are pooled, while at many statements that would warrant citations those are missing. I also cannot accept the sequence-based analysis as it is. If the authors prefer not to revise it I would suggest to completely remove it or boil it down to a single schematic figure and at most half a page of text. As it is, it is completely useless for further research: researchers not aware of the problems with sequence analyses will be misguided, and researchers interested in sequence aspects will need to do a correct analysis anyway. The supplementary Figures S1 to S8 do not show any useful information (the figure legends do not describe what is shown, the structures in “A” do not correspond to the sequences shown in “B”) and need to be completely removed. The authors do not understand what RNA-seq mapping means and everything in the manuscript mentioning RNA-seq needs to be removed. The authors write “Entries were retrieved from databases for cDNA/EST sequences, RNA-seq,…”, but where are these entries? Where is the list of reads from SRA archives supporting any of the alternative splice variants? Which cDNA/EST clones support which splice variant? Many (especially the human) splice variants result from COMBINATIONS of alternatively spliced exons, e.g. from 2 alternatively spliced exons you might get 4 different transcripts and this exponentially increases with the number of alternatively spliced exons per gene. Where is the evidence (full-length cDNA) that all these combinations are found? Are there coupled splicing events? How does the number of “entries” reported (e.g. 95 for human) correspond to the number of possible combinations, and by which evidence are certain combinations excluded? By comparing human and mouse, isn’t it just a database problem that mouse contains less entries than human, although the total number of potential combinations is identical? In their response letter, the authors write “We did not include references dealing with alternative splicing because the study was not intended to be at this level, but working at the level of surveying and comparing available entries and what these entries may reflect at the protein level. As described above, substantial revisions were focused on clarifying the intent of the work to avoid this impression. This reasoning applies to why gene structures and splicing events were not provided.”. If the authors do not want to deal with alternative splicing at the gene structure level, than the provided data/figures are even more misleading and misguiding. What is the benefit for the reader to have all these figures (main figs and supplementary data/figs) if these are not based on and supported by real data? Either, do a thorough analysis based on gene structures and real RNA-seq mapping, or remove all the speculations on predicted sequences and structures (text, figs, supplements). Do the authors know which software was used to generate these predictions? Re-run the gene prediction software and you will get more predictions to speculate on. = Abstract, Results section, first sentence: “A comparison of database entries of six widely used eukaryotic experimental models […] revealed robust usage of alternative splicing…”. I think that the word “reveal” is overstating the findings, the database entries just “suggest” that alternative splicing might happen. What is “robust usage of alternative splicing”? = Introduction, first paragraph: Lemberg and Freeman do not mention “Derlin” in their paper at all. The current phrasing of this sentence is misleading in this respect. As far as I understand the Lemberg and Freeman paper (see Fig. 4 there), they distinguish 3 types of rhomboids, and the proteolytically active ones further subdivide into two subgroups. The sentence by Powles and Ko “Phylogenetic studies, such as that conducted by Lemberg and Freeman (2007), suggest that rhomboid genes can be divided into two subgroups encoding proteolytically active secretases- and Presenilin Associated Rhomboid Like (PARL)-type rhomboid forms, and two subgroups of catalytically inactive forms (“non-proteases”) such as iRhoms, Derlins, and other distantly related forms.” reads as if there were 2 main groups (proteolytically active and catalytically inactive) and that the catalytically inactive further subdivide into to two subgroups (mentioning even three subgroups, iRhoms, Derlins and other distantly related forms). This is not a clear description how this protein family is organized and which groups/subgroups are distinguished. I haven’t read the other 4 cited papers, just the one by Lemberg and Freeman, thus I cannot suggest how to rephrase this sentence to be consistent with the literature. In the end, it should be clearly stated which and how much major subgroups are distinguished, and which of these are further distinguished in minor subgroups, and which of the classifications is based on which publication. The next sections are at least not in-line with the Lemberg and Freeman classifications, as they state “The active category…” implying no subgroups and “The inactive categories…” implying multiple subgroups. = The citation of previous literature in the Introduction section is still not adequate. While the citations in the section about “active rhomboids” is appropriate putting citations to the listed functions, in the section about “inactive rhomboids” all citations are just combined at two occasions, although many more different functions of rhomboids are listed than in the “active” section. It should be the authors’ and not the readers’ task to put citations at appropriate statements. As it is, there are multiple citations for very general statements, while all the detailed information is not supported by citations. = “…At1g741301, also exists as three splice variants…”: What does “also” mean here? Where is the reference to other rhomboids with 3 splice variants? = “…changing from a seven predicted to six transmembrane structure”: I don’t understand that phrase, this does not make any sense. = “Functionality differences…”: What does this mean? There are many more awkward phrasings throughout the manuscript, that I will not list here. I highly recommend the authors to go through the manuscript again and improve the phrasing. There are examples in almost every second sentence… (e.g. “A limited selection of alternatively spliced variants were…”, “In many cases, alternative splicing events tend to influence one motif, but there were a number of cases where the impact may affect one or more motifs…”, etc. etc.) = “…we conducted a comparative analysis of entries available in the genetic databases…”: Did you really look in “genetic” databases (and if, I would be very curious to know which exactly) or genomic databases? = Methods section: “For instance, a frequent occurrence is an alternative splicing event which occurs in a particular motif that would likely impact the adjacent linker region.” Does this sentence provide any useful information? Is it related to any “method”? Does it implicate that “particular motifs” as part of alternative splicing events are only located in domains (e.g. TMs) and not in linker regions? Does it implicate that these motifs never impact the motifs themselves or the corresponding domains but only the linker regions? Wouldn’t such events rather impact spatially close regions (e.g. tertiary structure) instead of regions connected by sequence succession? I highly recommended in my first review to revise the Methods section with respect to removing unnecessary information not related to any Method, and instead provide a description what was actually done with which software (this includes mentioning all the software versions! BLAST v.1.0 is very different from BLAST v.2.28, for example). The Methods section needs further shortening (remove all what is not a method) and considerable rephrasing (to make exact statements; e.g. what is a “Linear protein alignments…”? Are there circular or other alignments? What are “Structural predictions…”, “Three-dimensional predictions…”?). = Shouldn’t it be “selected” instead of “select” in the title and at many other occasions in the manuscript, e.g. “Select proteins were synthesized…”? = I only looked at Figure S1 in detail, and because this is already that strange and misleading I stopped and did not look at the other supplementary figures. From its title “Examples of alternative splicing and their potential impacts on the structure of the amino terminal region” the reader would suspect to see a structure of the N-terminal region, and structures where this region is changed because of alternative splicing events. At first glance, Figure S1 shows 13 structures in “A” and an alignment of 13 sequences in “B”. However, the structure denotes TMD3-6, which are not part of the N-terminal region and not part of the red-boxed region of the alignment, which shows the differences due to alternative splicing. Where is the N-terminal region in the structure? According to the figure legend, “Key residues of the catalytic site are noted by colorized letters that match the colorized regions of the generated 3-D models”, but in the 3D-models all secondary structural elements are coloured, not the key residues. There is no way to identify these “key residues” anywhere in the structure. According to the alignment shown in “B” there are three splice events: i) there could be a short elongation at the N-terminus, ii) there is a differentially included region in the middle, and iii) almost the entire N-terminal region can be missing. But where do I see this in the structures? Sequences x1, x2, and x6 should have identical N-terminal sequences, but the corresponding structures in “A” are different. Or do numbers in “A” not correspond to numbers in “B” as stated in the figure legend? Same for sequences x3, x4, and x5, which are identical but do show different structures. Why do have the sequences x10, x11, and x12, which almost completely miss the N-terminus, structures at all? The sequences for the N-termini of all 13 variants are identical (except for including/excluding certain regions), why are the structures for these N-termini different? 