In this article, Dr. Iodice and associates presented the results on the correlation between continuous and intermittent ScvO 2 values, obtained with a fiber-optic oximetry catheter (PediaSat) and standard blood gas measurements, respectively. In addition, ScvO 2 values were compared to those obtained by cerebral near infrared spectroscopy (cNIRS). The study was conducted on ten children undergoing cardiac surgery. Although this is a retrospective observational study, it has been well described. Also, the article is clear, and the results are well presented. The discussion is very concise but highlights sufficiently some positive and negative aspects of the devices under study. Furthermore, it makes comparisons with other studies showing similar or opposite results on this field. My major criticism is about statistical analysis. Indeed, as the measurements of oxygen saturation have been performed at different times, the adjustment for the effects of repeated measurements in the Bland- Altman analysis had to be used. Conversely, the authors have used standard Bland-Altman and correlation analyses. Despite the aforementioned criticism, I think the topic of this article is of interest. Indeed, monitoring tissue oxygenation in critically ill patients is crucial during cardiac surgery. In particular, children undergoing cardiac operations may benefit from assessing the adequacy of their oxygen delivery (DO 2 ) with respect to their oxygen requirements. To this purpose, an indirect index of tissue perfusion is the mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO 2 ). However, to measure this parameter a pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) is required. Unfortunately, PAC is invasive and usually not practicable in children. Over the past years, the central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO 2 ) has been used in many clinical settings as a surrogate of SvO 2 . Thus, ScvO 2 can be measured continuously (fiber-optic catheter) or intermittently (blood withdrawals) and it is currently considered a possible alternative to SvO 2 . Besides, the measure of ScvO 2 requires a less invasive technique, as for its measurement a central venous catheter is needed instead of a PAC. In this study, the main result was that the fiber-optic catheter PediaSat showed unreliable performance. However, the authors had repeated measures from a small cohort of children with 10 kg of body weight. This may have biased their findings. Further studies are warranted, as conflicting results on this issue still remain in the current literature. Of note, a key message from this investigation is that monitoring brain function with cNIRS is safe, continuous and easy to achieve in children undergoing cardiac surgery. In addition, this method has the main advantage of providing useful information on brain function, which can be considered a subtle marker of systemic hypoperfusion in case of low cerebral oxygen saturation. Monitoring cerebral function with cNIRS may avoid potential neurological complications, which are associated with increased morbidity and mortality, and poor quality of life.