Winawer and Witthoft present a methodological paper describing the practical details that allow researchers to localize the human homologue of V4 (hV4) using fMRI visual field mapping. As described in the Abstract and Introduction, it has become very straightforward to define earlier visual field maps (V1-V3), but hV4 presents particular difficulties that prevented researchers even agreeing hV4’s location for many years. Studies by Winawer and Witthoft themselves addressed this disagreement. Other researchers in the field have typically learned to localize hV4 after demonstrations of the practical details from experienced colleagues. In most studies, many of these practical details are omitted for brevity, and because parts have been described elsewhere. It is becoming increasingly clear that visual field map definitions beyond V1-V3 are not as consistent as they should be across labs. So, the field will benefit from publication of more standardized, practical protocols like those described here to allow consistent localization of hV4. The approach described here is methodologically very strong and clearly described for an inexperienced researcher. Major points: The manuscript describes procedures for drawing V1-3 and hV4. However, the anterior boundary of hV4 is described in relation to VO1 (section 6.2.1), and procedures for drawing VO1 are not described. Furthermore, VO1 is fairly far anterior of hV4, so will often not be covered in a scan volume targeted at V1-3 and hV4. I don’t think it is wise to add procedures for drawing VO1-2, because these procedures rely on their relationship to hV4, making quite a circular description. Therefore, this section would benefit from rewriting without assuming that VO1 has been drawn already, i.e. based on the location of an area of maximum preferred eccentricity in an eccentricity gradient, rather than based on an eccentricity reversal to VO1. Procedures for drawing hV4 are described clearly, but assume the researcher already has good surface renderings and estimates of each voxel’s preferred visual field position. These earlier stages are extensive and complex, but the manuscript describes them only briefly and with reference to previous studies. I don’t believe an inexperienced researcher could work through these stages from the brief descriptions in the manuscript, so effectively the manuscript assumes the reader already has considerable experience. To make a more practical, step-by-step description of the complete procedure, a more complete description of normal segmentation and pRF modelling procedures would be valuable. However, I understand if the authors decide against including this, because it would change the focus of the manuscript considerably. Minor points: The discussion of differences to expect between subjects is helpful, but the resulting definition of hV4 includes the areas where draining veins introduce artefacts. The manuscript should make clear that subsequent analyses of responses in these areas will be strongly affected by these artefacts. Indeed, for many subsequent analyses these areas give a corrupted view of hV4’s responses, and I would certainly exclude these areas from most subsequent analyses. So, the manuscript should make clear that, while these voxels do lie in hV4 anatomically, it is often preferable to exclude them from our definition of hV4. In Figure 7, the iso-eccentricity line with the highest eccentricity is misleading. In this figure, all voxels with preferred eccentricity above 6˚ are labelled in blue. The line running through this blue area therefore links voxels with different eccentricities, all above 6˚. The parahippocampal gyrus is mentioned as a landmark in section 5.2, but not shown on Figure 2. Please add this to the figure. In section 6.1, the following phrase is ambiguous: “it may be possible to trace V2 and V3 in concentric ‘V’ shapes around V1.” This could be taken to mean that each of the dorsal and ventral quarterfields of V2 and V3 is V-shaped (i.e. ending at a point, outside the foveal confluence), when in fact there are bands passing through the foveal confluence (Schira et al , reference 9). Please re-write this phrase to make it clear that each ‘V’ is a whole hemifield map of V2 or V3. 