The author presents an interesting piece of insight into research impact through a cultural lens, which is quite distinct from a lot of more recent studies which tend to focus on ‘academic impact’ metrics. As a short note, I found it useful in exposing a different dimension to the ongoing debates around research impact. Given my area of “expertise”, I feel that someone who understands social research impact more could provide a great deal of additional insight here during the review process. Data The data are included in Figshare, as well as summarized in integrated tables. I note that there are a lot of missing data included though, is this just a case of availability? Also, I note that the Scimago database is based on Scopus data, which tends to be biased in a number of dimensions. Is it possible to make a note of this? Abstract The abstract jumps right into results around Individualism and Power distance and indulgence, without describing what these are (even briefly). This makes it difficult to understand for readers who are perhaps unfamiliar with these concepts. Perhaps a brief explanation of these could be added instead of describing the methods and the data sources, which aren’t really needed? Introduction Just to pull out the ‘correlation does not imply causation’ card here; just because there is a correlation between number of publications and other external factors, does not imply a causal relationship necessarily. There are a couple of typos (e.g.‘twits’) that might just need a quick copy edit to fix. I think the Introduction does a nice job of describing the previous research, and situates the present report well within that. Not sure if the comment about China at the end of the Introduction adds too much here. Materials and methods So the methods are pretty simple, which is nice. But also, I think perhaps a bit too simple here given that you’re performing a lot of bivariate analyses, and a couple of extra steps are recommended. First, you want to perform an assessment of normality for data series prior to any correlation analyses, using the Shapiro–Wilk test (e.g.,shapiro.test function in R). From the output, if the p-values are greater than the pre-defined alpha level (traditionally, 0.05) this implies that the distribution of the data are not significantly different from a normal distribution, and therefore you can assume normality and use Pearson’s test (Pearson’s product moment correlation coefficient [r]). If p 0.05, you should instead perform a non-parametric Spearman’s rank correlation (ρ). Secondly, once you’ve done this, for each test, report both the raw and adjusted p-values. The latter can be calculated using the p.adjust() function, and using the ‘BH’ model (Benjamini Hochberg, 1995 1 ). This method accounts for the false-discovery test when performing multiple hypothesis tests with the same data set, which can inflate type-1 error (i.e. in order to avoid falsely rejecting a true null hypothesis; a false positive). What this will probably do is reduce the ‘significance’ of some of your results too (which is why it’s best to report both the raw and adjusted values). In addition to this, it seems like you have multivariate data, so multivariate analyses might be more informative here. I would strongly recommend performing a Principal Components Analysis on your data (perhaps just only with the variables with more complete data), and inspecting that as a compliment to the bivariate ones. This is fairly easy to do and display using in built functions in R. Results I expect that the results will change a bit given my above recommendations to the methods, so won’t comment too much on them at this stage. The nice thing about PCA though is that it produces good summary plots, which might be useful here. In the text, can the country abbreviations be given to make reading a bit easier? M, SD, and N I think need explaining here too. Lots of acronyms can get a bit confusing! Discussion and conclusions As above, I don’t want to comment too much on the Discussion and Conclusions at the present, as I think the above recommended methods will change some of the interpretations. However, at the present there seems to be a logical progression between reported results and conclusions. Congratulations to the author on a great and interesting piece of work. I would be happy to see a revised version of this too if needed. 