In this manuscript entitled “Peptide arrays of three collections of human sera from patients infected with mosquito-borne viruses” by Pickett et al ., the authors report the screening of patient sera using peptide microarrays for antibody interactions. The goal is to identify disease specific biomarkers, since “serological tests are often not reliable for diagnosis after seroconversion and convalescence due to cross-reactivity among flaviviruses”. Overall, the approach is sound and has very good potential and the authors did an impressive job in bioinformatic prediction and analysis. Yet, the results show that there is room for technological and methodological improvement. I believe that the data presentation can be improved. Thus, I suggest the following minor changes: The title “Peptide arrays of … human sera…” is in my opinion misleading. “Human sera are analyzed/screened on/with peptide arrays” or “Arrays are incubated with human sera”. It is somewhat difficult to understand the peptide selection, because there is just a reference to another publication. A brief 2-3 sentences description on the peptide selection process would help. To judge the quality of the microarray data, it would be highly beneficial to have some kind of heat map of all array results together (raw and/or normalized median peptide staining intensity per patient). I found it somewhat unconventional to deposit a tsv result file on github. Only providing raw data makes a quick review and validation rather difficult. For an example, see Figure 2 in Weber, L.K., et al. (2017), Eng. Life Sci. , 17: 1078-1087 1 . Furthermore, I could not find a link between the raw data files and the corresponding peptide sequence. This needs more explanation and the authors should provide an additional file with the sequences of each position on the array. In my opinion, the patient sample presentation has to be improved. The authors state that they only have incomplete patient history (“Given the incomplete histories and serology …additional work is needed to determine whether incomplete metadata contributed to this finding.”). Yet, in the section “Serum sources”, the authors give some ranges on patient age and days after onset of symptoms. In my opinion, a full patient information table (e.g. in supporting information) is essential (even though data might be missing), showing patient age, sex, known previous arbovirus infections (primary vs. secondary infection), days after onset of symptoms, etc. of all patients. From my experience, there can be a large difference in antibody response in patients 10 days vs. 30 days after onset of symptoms, so these patients should be categorized and analyzed as different groups. I believe that patient stratification is one of the keys to more statistically significant data. The following general comments might be helpful to discuss the statistical significance of the results: I do not fully agree with this general assumption: “Although reports showing antibodies against other viral proteins are detectable 12, the E and NS1 proteins are the primary targets of the humoral anti-flavivirus immune response in humans 13–15.” Although discussed before (citation 11), this approach ignores for example the highly specific serum biomarker from the NS2B protein in Zika. This approach might miss other similarly important peptide biomarkers. In addition, adding peptides from the nonstructural proteins might help to boost the overall sensitivity of the assay (yet, losing some specificity). By choosing consensus sequences, the authors limited the peptide selection, which is valid and – with current array technology – necessary. However, this probably limits the sensitivity of the microarray results and the subsequent ELISA. Depending on the selected protein regions and patient origins (- virus genotypes), there might be several important genotypic variants, which the authors would have neglected. In addition, the array protocol seems not optimal and there are some inconsistencies in the methods section. Some general remarks, questions, corrections and suggestions regarding the array processing: The raw data states that the scanner Innopsys Innoscan 1100AL and the Mapix software were used. Yet, the in the manuscript, it is stated: “…using a ProScanArray HT (Perkin Elmer) microarray scanner at 488 nm and 600 nm, and images were saved as high-resolution TIF files. Imagene 6.1 microarray analysis software…”. Please correct. The scanner wavelengths were supposedly 488 nm and 600 nm. In the raw data files, it says 488 nm and 635 nm. Please correct. If possible, please also give the laser powers and gain (PMT) settings for the scans (according to the raw data: wavelengths 635, 488: "LaserPower=10.0, 5.0", "PMTGain=50, 50"). For the microarray experiments, the authors claim to have used the Alexa 488 labeled secondary antibody: Invitrogen, cat. #: A-11013, RRID: AB_2534080. This is an (H+L) chain specific antibody, so it will also bind to IgM antibodies (please include this information!)! The use of the Ab labeled with Alexa 488 is a bit odd, since the original data files state that the scanning of the main interaction was performed at 635 nm. Yet, the data of the 488 nm channel is not included in the raw data and, according to the protocol, it seems to me that this dye is only used for controls (see section “Peptide preparation and microarray printing”). Are you sure that you used this specific secondary antibody? If so, I would highly recommend changing to a 635 nm channel compatible secondary antibody, since the 488 nm channel gives much higher background and generally very strong autofluorescence. In contrast, for the ELISAs, the authors apparently used a different secondary antibody, which is Fc specific, so it should only bind to IgG. Thus, the microarray data cannot be directly compared to the ELISA data. The final steps of the array washing and drying protocol are in my opinion not optimal: “… another two times in deionized water and centrifuged to dry at 200 g for 5 mins.” The pH of distilled water should be checked. Since deionized water is only weakly buffered (very low salt concentration), deionized water may have a low pH (especially observed in ddH2O). By washing the arrays with it, the lower pH may destroy interactions of weakly (or pH sensitive) binding antibodies. Instead, to remove salt residues from the array surface, you might want to use 1 mM Tris buffer in the future. In addition, for future experiments, centrifuging arrays for drying is not optimal, since drying effects may cause artifacts (coffee ring drying effects, etc.). Instead, using a jet of air to quickly remove droplets from the surface causes much less artifacts. Overall, the manuscript is well written and the bioinformatics seems sound. Yet, the authors can take some more care in presenting the data and should correct and/or explain the inconsistencies in the methods section (scanner, wavelengths, antibodies). Future analyses should focus on patient stratification and possibly more homogenous samples (different cohorts may be difficult to compare). This may significantly improve statistical outcome. 