Two major limitations remain in this manuscript: 1. The authors still have not explained - or perhaps have not carried out – the agreement procedures for the study. In their responses to the previous reviews, they merely stated that, “We reanalyzed the entire dataset in terms of MBL and SSL and found very little discrepancies between the first and second dataset.” This is insufficient. The speech samples were gathered via LENA, which is not appropriate for IPA transcription (as admitted freely by the LENA developers themselves). Yet, the 5-minute samples were transcribed in broad IPA for analysis in this study. No information is provided about inter-rater or intra-rater agreement among transcribers, which is likely to be unacceptably low for LENA samples. Given that these transcripts were used for MBL and SSL analysis, it is actually not crucial that the transcribers agreed on the specific consonants and vowels that were produced in the samples. BUT for these MBL and SSL analyses to have any validity, the transcribers must have good agreement upon: a. syllable shapes – inclusion of true consonants (vital for differentiating level 1 vs. levels 2 or 3) b. word shapes – i.e., whether a given vocalization contains one or more syllables (vital for differentiating level 2 vs. level 3) c. consonant differentiation – whether or not the consonants in vocalizations of 2 syllables or more were harmonized i.e., whether the syllables within each di/multisyllabic vocalization were reduplicated (vital for differentiating level 2 vs. level 3). Therefore, an appropriate reliability procedure would be to calculate the MBL or SSL for a selected percentage of children at a sample of ages based on two different transcriptions, to see if the same values would result from the two transcripts. The results of this procedure should be reported *in the article*. 2. The samples used in this study were “multiple 5-minute audio segments with the *highest occurrence* of child utterances” (p. 7). On the other hand, the samples reported in the literature to which the treatment children are compared were *not* selected to be samples during which the typical children were especially voluble. They were 30-minute (or sometimes 60-minute) samples that were used as is, regardless of the child’s volubility at the time. Therefore, it is *not* appropriate for the authors to claim that the children in the present study performed better on these measures than the children reported in previous literature (e.g., on p. 7: “the children in the treatment cohort outpaced the typical children”). It is a comparison of the best moments of the treatment children versus typical moments of the children from the literature. We cannot know what the MBL and SSL levels of the typical children would have been if 5-minute selections of their most voluble moments of a day had been selected out for analysis. There are still a few typos, etc. in the manuscript even though the authors did correct most of the ones that we (not Reviewer 2) pointed out before.