In the current work the authors study a population genetics model in which fitness is a linear function of a set of phenotypic traits, and where the genotype-to-phenotype map is given by a linear transformation composed with sigmoidal functions. Despite the seeming simplicity of the fitness function, the authors make the case that optimizing fitness is a hard, NP-complete, problem. Under this model, they study the extent to which the fitness landscape (that is, the question of which phenotypic traits contribute positively to fitness, and which contribute negatively) can be inferred from the distribution of these traits in the population after being subject to evolution for a moderate span of time. They then connect this question with that of whether learning algorithms (potentially epigenetic in nature) can help optimize and speed up evolution by learning the fitness landscape. Toward the goal of inferring the fitness landscape, the authors prove two theorems. Theorem 3.1 concerns a simplified model of an infinite population with no mutations, while Theorem 3.2 concerns a more complex model of a finite population with mutation, stochastic number of descendants and a culling process. In either case, the result is that under certain assumptions, if a mutant genotype is present in the population with high enough frequency after a long enough period of elapsed time, then we can confidently infer that any phenotypic trait differential between the wildtype and the mutant is associated with a higher fitness. While Theorem 3.1 ignores mutation, even Theorem 3.2 seems at odds with mutation-selection balance. Even a mutant with lower fitness will be present in the population at a frequency that is on the order of the rate of mutation, while the theorem seems to claim that the frequency of such a mutant will be exponentially small with high probability. The authors should resolve this apparent discrepancy. In addition, the main ideas of the proof would be more clearly communicated if the authors would include a treatment of the intermediate model of an infinite population with mutation. As for the discussion of the way learning can speed up the evolutionary process, this part of the paper remains unclear and underdeveloped. The authors discuss a two-step evolutionary process in which the first step consists of small mutations in order to explore the fitness landscape, and the next step involves changing the thresholds involved in the genotype-to-phenotype map in a way that promotes phenotypic traits associated with higher fitness. While this idea is interesting and worth exploring, a few issues arise. A conceptual issue remaining to be addressed is whether the threshold h i is part of the genotype and what mechanism are needed to alter its value. According to the authors, the h i ’s can be modified genetically or epigenetically. If epigenetically, it is not apparent what are the environmental cues that will lead to such learning let alone the actual mechanism of modifying them. If genetically, it is similarly unclear in what way the learning of the fitness landscape is being stored, if at all, in the genotype, and what is the connection to the Theorems of chapter 3. The theorems in chapter 3 rely on observing the frequency of a genotype in the population, but such information is not stored in individual genotypes. Additionally, if the thresholds are understood to be variable and subject to selection, then the fitness-maximization problem in fact becomes easy (in contrast to the prior analysis of it as NP-complete), unless we impose restrictions on the range of the threshold. Indeed, one can set the thresholds at positive or negative infinity depending on whether the corresponding trait is positive or negative in order to effectively keep the trait on or off regardless of genotype. Finally, as this manuscript addresses the relation between learning and the rate of evolution, it would benefit from including a reference to one of the most relevant and intuitive articles written in the late 80’s by Geoffrey E. Hinton Steven J. Nowlan, “How Learning Can Guide Evolution” Complex Systems , 1, 495-502 1 . In it, Hinton and Nowlan showed how learning alters the shape of the fitness landscape and thereby provides easier evolutionary paths towards sets of co-adapted alleles. Hinton and Nowlan demonstrated that this effect allows learning individuals to evolve faster than non-learners. Though the learning model presented by Hinton and Nowlan operates at “somatic” timescale, the analogy to mutations at the evolutionary timescale can be drawn. To conclude, though it can be improved by the above suggestions, this article touches upon very interesting and important issues in the field of evolutionary biology which are still only lightly investigated, and highlight what might be a fruitful path towards better understanding. 