Thank you for inviting me to review this research article addressing a very important topic, clinical outcome of all ceramic partial coverage restorations, and the article is well-written. I agree with the authors that this study has a number of strengths (a randomized, split mouth study). However, I have some concerns about the design and the interpretation of the results that I believe should be addressed to make the paper stronger. The title It could be better to consider the following title for your study: Clinical outcome of CAD/CAM all-ceramic partial-coverage restorations: A Prospective clinical split-mouth study 1 . Abstract Regarding the abstract section it’s informative. Introduction section Is short and the rationale of the study is not well presented, kindly add a short review about the previous clinical studies about all ceramic partial coverage restoration focusing in the preparation design, the cause of the use such design, and why in your study you use morphology driven preparation from biomechanical prospective. Method section Regarding to tooth preparation, Kindly specify the following; - Cavity depth, cavity width (BL) in both premolar and molar. - The buccal and lingual extension of the interproximal box walls. - Regarding to the sentence, all undercuts were blocked……kindly, explain. Regarding to clinical outcome; - Each restoration was examined by one or two assessors? Kindly specify. - Although, 12 months of clinical service is too short period to assess the survival rate of the restoration as mentioned by the authors in the study limitation section, the finding could be considered as a preliminary finding. Results section Kindly, add a table of restoration distribution, for example, how many molars, premolars, and their frequency distribution. Is there any patient drop out during the evaluation period or not, kindly add this part. Discussion section Your null hypothesis is accepted or rejected? And why? Kindly discuss. The second paragraph in the discussion section, is fitted best to your introduction section, as it describe your study rationale. 