The article by Mayne et al . argues that Morgellons Disease should be seen as a form of Lyme Disease. The authors completely dismiss the possibility of Morgellons being a form of Delusional Infestation. Two of the main authors (Middelveen and Stricker) have a history of publications that argue for Morgellons to be seen as a valid disease entity. The authors summarise very few cases where they claim that patients with self-declared Morgellons Disease have tested positive for Lyme Disease. However, they completely omit the fact that in the recent article by Pearson et al . , which they do mention, Lyme Disease was not found in any significant number in the 100 cases examined. If Lyme Disease was in any way a scientifically relevant entity in Morgellons Disease, that study would have shown it. In contrast there was no evidence in the Morgellons patients examined that Lyme Disease is relevant to their presentation. Therefore any individual cases put forward by the authors themselves should be dismissed as case reports which have not been confirmed by bigger studies. The authors also completely dismiss the overwhelming evidence in people with Delusional Infestation that they respond to antipsychotic medication. Instead the authors repeat their well-rehearsed arguments from previous papers that a diagnosis of Delusional Infestation is allegedly stigmatising, wrong and any symptoms of depression or anxiety found in their patients are secondary to a filament infestation. They try to counteract the argument that most of these patients will have Delusional Infestation by quoting DSM guidelines for the diagnosis of a delusional disorder. The authors claim that there is no specific entity of delusional infestation in ICD-10 or DSM-4 and it therefore cannot be reliably diagnosed. However, they accept the existence of Monodelusional Disorders in both DSM and ICD. Freudenmann and Lepping have pointed out in their Clinical Microbiology Reviews publication that Delusional Infestation is easily diagnosable within DSM and ICD as a Monodelusional Disorder. In essence, we have here an article of well-rehearsed arguments about why Morgellons Disease should not be classified as Delusional Infestation by authors who have a history of writing similar articles. They do not offer any new evidence at all and deliberately omit significant evidence against their assertions. The authors have dismissed the possibility of Morgellons being a form of Delusional Infestation in contrast to the vast majority of experts, without offering any reasonable evidence for their opinion.