The manuscript “Optical characterization of epidermal cells and their relationship to DNA recovery from touch samples” by Stanciu CE et al . is focused on the “Touch DNA” topic and is aimed at investigating the relative contributions of extracellular and intracellular DNA and their relationship to the quantity of cells recovered from touch samples under controlled conditions. It also assesses how the transfer and recovery of each type of biological material may be influenced by particular actions of the individual contributor. To this aim, the Authors used flow cytometry for precise and non-destructive measurements of touch samples that were simultaneously processed using standard caseworking techniques for DNA analyses. The well described analytical methods and results show that there was no apparent correlation between the number of cells and the quantity of DNA recovered from the samples, neither could DNA recovery with or without hand washing be correlated to hand dominance. According to recent studies, they found that the vast majority (~84–100%) of nuclear DNA recovered from touch samples collected under the conditions described above is extracellular (i.e. oil and sweat secretions, saliva), and suggest that future work could explicitly test for the presence of buccal cells in touch samples through, e.g., antibody hybridizations targeting tissue specific surface antigens coupled with flow cytometry. They also highlighted the peculiarities, and consequently the analytical challenges, of touch samples, thus suggesting these samples to be treated differently than other types of forensic biological sample as for sample collection and processing purposes; e.g. to avoid the significant loss of DNA that may be associated with extraction, it may make sense to process the eDNA-containing supernatant separately via direct amplification. An interesting and innovative element represented in the manuscript is the possibility that non-genetic signatures could be analyzed, so that the most challenging touch samples (i.e. those that contain little to no DNA) may provide forensically relevant information. To this regard, it is reported that “… the average size of individual corneocytes has been shown to vary with source factors such as age, sex, and anatomical region, as does the composition of intracellular cytokeratin components … combining techniques to sort epidermal cells into donor populations (e.g., using factors described above) and typing the mtDNA of those populations is an avenue that warrants further exploration …”. Finally, as an interested researcher in the field of “Touch DNA”, I appreciate the efforts of the Authors in preparing this interesting manuscript, that is well written and follows a logical structure. I just have a minor suggestion to improve the manuscript, that is to include some STR profiles in order to show the quality of the DNA recovered from the analyzed samples.