 Overall comment: The article in the present form needs some revision including through checking of grammar and sentence structure. Further, I would request the authors to consider following points. Authors have written that "All bonds were constrained by LINCS". This claim needs to revisit. Generally, bonds involving hydrogen atoms are restrained using LINCS . Authors have mentioned that "In order to avoid the steric clashes, overall geometry and atomic charges were also optimized". I do not think authors have optimized the atomic charges. Rather atomic charges were obtained from the OPLS forcefield that was used in the simulations. The cutoff used for PME was 0.9 Angstrom. This is very small. It should rather be 9 Angstrom. Berendsen thermostat with V-rescale is not a good option for conformational sampling. A better option is Langevin dynamics. Authors have written that "The system was further energy minimized without any restraints for 50,000-time steps; the steepest descent having step size 0f 0.01 ps". This claim needs to revisit. No time-step is required for energy minimization. Only to study dynamics, i.e, to integrate Newton's equation of motion, we need to set time-step. It was not mentioned what time-step was used for the heating stage and production simulation. Docking is not a good method for predicting the binding free energy. It is the least accurate method for estimating the binding free energy. However, it is a very good method for predicting the binding pose. Authors should have conducted MM-PBSA type analysis to estimate the binding free energy. Figure 4 A, B, C are not required. Looking at Figure 4D, one can see that the for a couple of cases, longer simulation is required. The simulation length is too small (20 ns) to investigate the dynamics of proteins. They should extend all simulations to 50 ns. Figure 4: Use bigger fonts. It's not readable. Calculate average RMSD and Radius of Gyration during the simulations. Authors have written that "RMSF with respect to each residue....". RMSF is calculated with respect to the average structure obtained from simulations. Do you use C-alpha atoms of each residue? 