 Summary The article studies the effects of hypobaric hypoxia bouts interspersed by 7 days on the levels of cytoglobin, neuroglobin and AChE activity in the brain of the rat. Although some interesting results are reported, we think it is not indexable in its present form. Introduction The principal concepts related to the investigation that is aimed to be developed in this article must be better addressed. For example, what is expected to happen with levels of Cygb and Hgb in the brain after acute hypoxia exposure? Why? [Are the references provided regarding to stroke a valid example of hypoxia? Should not be anoxia instead?] The same applies to AChE activity. Which is the physiological meaning of increasing AChE after chronic normobaric hypoxia exposure in reducing the cholinergic system function? In the reference provided on bilateral common carotid occlusion, is there any implication of increased AChE activity in reducing ACh levels in the hippocampus? Apart from reference 4 (which is an unpublished study), are there any other references relating HIF1α levels with Cybg and Hgb levels and/or AChE activity? In our opinion, this is an important consideration to include in the Introduction section since it is at the basis of the authors’ hypothesis and the aim of the study. Provide additional references to support that HIF-1α is increased in rat brain after exposure to IHH, since reference 8 is a non-published work. Methods A subheading entitled “Hypobaric hypoxia procedure” should be included after the fourth paragraph. We have some concerns on the intermittent protocol used. In our opinion, an intermittent protocol is applied when the individuals are submitted regularly, during short periods of time, to a stimulus (hypoxia in this case). In the present protocol, rats were submitted only three times to the hypoxic procedure and interspersed by a long period (7 days). We have serious concerns to admit that this could be considered “intermittent” hypoxia. What kind of exposure (or risk) this protocol try to mimic? The reader needs some explanation about why the authors chose this particular exposure model. Although probably it will not alter the results of the experiment, chronical exposure of experimental animals to shredded newspaper is not desirable and must be avoided because the potential detrimental effects on their health caused by the inhalation of paper dust or direct nose and mouth contact with newspaper ink. Statistical analysis. Please, indicate the dispersion parameter used throughout the figures: standard deviation (SD)? Variance? Standard error of the mean (SEM)? Coefficient of variation (CV)? Results Provide reference for Federer’s rule and explain what does this rule has to do with the groups considered for the experiment. A paragraph indicating the usefulness and applicability of the hypoxia exposure protocol performed in this work is needed. Which is the rationale of applying the “hypobaric hypoxia type I chamber flight profile”? For what purposes was designed this protocol and what will be the translation of the hypothetic results obtained? Figure-5c. Which units are represented in Y axis? Why there is not dispersion parameter in the bar diagrams? In general, whisker plots or boxplots can replace histograms in Figures 2, 3, 4 and 5. Discussion Figure 5 is not discussed in this section. Authors must include some comments on that Figure justifying the relevance of the data presented and including some comments on the information provided by this Figure. The fourth paragraph of the Discussion section would be a good place to do that. The first paragraph must clearly explain, using references, the mechanisms why Cygb and Ngb levels are decreased after AHH exposure. Additionally, it is not clear enough the physiological mechanism, hypothetic or supported by previous literature, by which IHH induce increases in Cygb and Ngb that provide adaptive protection against hypoxia 1 - 2 . Relationship between HIF-1α levels triggered after hypoxia exposures and the studied proteins should be commented. We suggest also developing the possible implementation of this research results for individual training to adapt to hypoxia conditions (this is only mentioned in the two last lines of the Discussion). Which new insights introduce this study to, for example, pilot or parachute training? Which are the training protocols currently used and what would the results presented in this study add to this field? General The final edition of the text must be reviewed since there are several grammatical and language mistakes. 