This is an informative, concise article with clear aims that highlights the potential difficulties in selecting the right antibodies for specific cell types and research applications. In this study, the authors systematically tested commercial antibodies against calbindin, calretinin, parvalbumin and somatostatin - markers of GABAergic interneuron subtypes. Of the 13 antibodies tested, only 4 were deemed reliable and useful for characterizing these subtypes in mouse brain. The authors rigorous approach in selecting the right antibodies is commendable, a fact which often goes unnoticed in publications. The ranking of antibody performance in pAbmAbs, a review-based platform is a much needed resource for scientists whose research depends on the validity of the antibodies. As someone not in this research area, I found the manuscript scientifically well construed and the rationale easy to follow. It is noteworthy that this study by Molgaard et al. adds to the understanding of GABAergic subtypes in the mouse hippocampus and spinal cord, information which is sparse in the literature. In addition, by demonstrating specific staining of these markers, they have confirmed previously reported localization of these cells. A few comments/suggestions Would a change in the title be more appropriate? e.g. Immunofluorescent instead of immunohistochemical Is there any reason why the age of the mouse used for hippocampal staining and that for spinal cord staining is different? It would add value to this paper is images of spinal cord staining was also shown Although the without primary images are very clean, using these antibodies on tissues not known to express these targets would be a more superior negative control Could the authors offer an explanation for why the polyclonal antibodies appear to perform better than the monoclonals? To obtain better idea of reproducibility, it would be good to give an indication of how many times the experiment was performed and how many sections were stained per experiment 