The objective of this study is to find out the quantity of fluids adult patients with dengue fever and warning signs received to maintain hemodynamic stability and to discern which anthropometric measurement based fluid requirements correlated best with manifestation of severe dengue. The authors underscored warning signs (WS) but the definition they used was different from the reference #8 that they had cited. Because of the different WS definitions, the enrolment criteria and exclusion criteria were not clear which then resulted in a non-homogeneous study population. They include both shock and non-shock patients, i.e. dengue with WS and severe dengue on the time of admission. So the results might not be relevant. In addition in Table 1 the results revealed that on day 1; number of cases with compensated shock increased from 4 (day 1) to 7 (day 2) in 5L group and in 5L group reduced from 7 (day 1) to 6 (day 2). The number of cases with hypotensive shock reduced from 7 (day 1) to 5 (day 2). Were these shock patients on day 1 and 2 the same patients or different ones? The same results on day 2: number of cases with compensated shock increased from 3 (day 1) to 6 (day 2) and number of cases with hypotensive shock increased from 1 to 2 and in 5L group. In 5L group compensated shock reduced from 8 (day 1) to 7 (day 2) and from 6 (day 1) to 3 (day 2) for hypotensive shock. Were these shock patients on day 1 and 2 the same patients or different ones? For the above results even in 5L group, this amount of fluid 5L seemed not very effective in maintaining hemodynamic stability, still there were 50% of cases with shock or developed shock (if not the same patients. Please clarify number of study cases, 41 (in the abstract) or 43 in the results and Table 1. Because of different definition, number of severe dengue cases increased! But by looking mean platelet count, mean HCT, mean AST/ALT, it seemed that the majority of enrolled case were not severe. But in more severe cases, this fluid amount could not prevent shock in at least 14 cases (33%) in this study. The following definitions in this study were different from standard? Warning signs (WS) that were not in the references: poor oral intake, dizziness, hypotension or shock, tachycardia during the afebrile phase, severe thrombocytopenia, associated diabetes, pregnancy or alcoholism, referral for admission from a peripheral health center, obese patients. Hypotension was considered when systolic blood pressure was 100 mmHg Tachycardia defined compensated shock. Hypotensive shock = Pulse pressure ≤ 20 mmHg or Systolic BP 90 mmHg or feeble pulse orthe patients was restless. Organ impairment was defined as: Transaminase elevation 3 times. CK elevation 3 times. Thrombocytopenia = Platelet count, 150,000/cumm. 