The authors speculate that questing A. tapirellum ticks, which are normally feeding primarily on tapirs, could be transported and, moreover, dropped into carbon dioxide baited mosquito traps by primates. (Yes, “Questing” is the appropriate term, which describes a stage in the tick life cycle when it is ready to take a blood-meal, whether it is searching for food actively or passively.) This “delivery of questing ticks” is a tenuous conjecture at best. Unlike mosquitoes, ixodid ticks feed only once per life stage; they rarely attach to and get transported by unsuitable hosts, on which ticks would not feed. Ticks, that “by mistake” get onto a wrong target – be it a flagging device or an inappropriate host, get off of it within minutes unless they are frozen in dry ice. Ticks which do find a suitable host and begin feeding do not just suddenly drop off, but continue taking a blood-meal for several days until full engorgement (or until the host’s death). A. tapirellum has a 3-host life cycle; it means that at each stage engorged (blood-fed) ticks fall off the host into the substrate in order to molt into the next life stage or to lay eggs (unlike in mosquitoes, female ixodid ticks die after just one oviposition). It takes several weeks for an engorged tick to molt and start questing again. Therefore, it is highly implausible that unfed (questing) ticks would be delivered en masse into the traps by any hosts. Engorged ticks, on the other hand, might have been delivered in this way but only if an infested animal crawled into a trap for a rest and fed ticks had time to fall off of it. However, neither spider nor howler monkeys could possibly fit into miniature light traps, not to mention that neither species is known to serve as a host for A. tapirellum . It is much more likely that the appearance of questing Amblyomma ticks in mosquito traps resulted from a procedural (trap-handling) artifact. Authors placed their carbon dioxide baited traps either 1.5 meters above the ground (not really “at the ground level”), or 20-30 meters up in the trees. Obviously, traps hanging 1.5 meters above the ground could be serviced right where they were, without contact with the tick-infested ground cover. However, those traps placed 20 meters high would have had to be lowered to the ground daily for checking and replacement of the dry ice, and that would give ticks a chance to crawl onto the traps out of their own volition. Ticks are attracted to carbon dioxide and fast crawling ticks like Amblyomma spp. can be collected in large numbers quite quickly. Unfed questing ticks that crawled onto and eventually into dry ice container(s) would be discovered the next day to cause a “sensational discovery”. Uneven distribution and seasonal dynamics of ticks explain why some traps had ticks and others did not. Differences in placement of traps explain why only high-hanging traps caught ticks. The suppositions advanced in this account can only stem from ignorance regarding ticks, their biology, behavior, and even the standard terminology. It is usually advisable to consider simple explanations of unexpected results prior to making "astounding" claims.