This article continues the important effort of the authors and their colleagues to advance a line of research capable of fleshing out the somewhat vague concept subsumed under the heading Neural Darwinism. While the general idea that subtle functions of the brain involve Darwinian features has persisted over the last 40 years (beginning with Changeux et al. 1 ) an up-to-date synthesis has been lacking and the authors are to be congratulated for their sustained effort to achieve this goal. Part of the difficulty encountered is related to ambiguities concerning exactly what features of neo-Darwinism so successfully applied to population genetics and molecular biology, can be imported into concepts of neuroscience. In the present effort, many terms from the classical Darwinian literature are invoked, but how they are translated from population genetics to computational neuroscience is not always clear. In this respect a glossary could be very helpful, which would include the classical definition and the neural application, as applied for example to terms such as: replication, hereditary variation, breeding, fitness, mutation, deme, generation, Lamarckian, etc. In particular, the hallmark of fitness in evolution is expansion of population size, but whether and how this criterion is applicable in neuroscience should be addressed. A second challenge is to define the level at which Darwinian principles are applied. More explicit attention could be given to dendritic spines (an obvious target for LTP, STDP), axonal pruning (see for example Kolodkin and Tessier-Lavigne 2 ), or neural circuitry. Cortical columns are invoked in passing, but should be evaluated in more detail. Each of these levels is stochastic in some respects, but to what extent does the variation implicit in neural Darwinism require additional mechanisms? Concerning the results presented for the various simulations performed, several valuable points were raised in the comments by Karl Friston. In addition, it would be helpful to make clearer connections with respect to the putative neuronal structures simulated. For comparison, the recent success of deep learning algorithms should be considered, in so far as they do or do not mimic Darwinian mechanisms of the brain. Moreover, since a global optimum is set for the simulations, what criteria would establish optimality in a natural Darwinian system within the brain? Finally, what is the relationship of the high number of “generations” (20,000 in Figure 4) to putative neuronal processes? Overall, describing neuronal activity using Darwinian terminology is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, a thorough application of Darwinian principles to brain science involves many one-to-one correspondences that must be clearly articulated. On the other hand, since the words are familiar, their usage carries immediate associations that can obscure understanding and become an ambiguous jargon. It would be hard to over-estimate the difficulty of finding the right balance, especially for scholars already immersed in the quest and possessing their own specific understanding of terms employed. Therefore, navigating through these troubled waters, requires extreme vigilance of language, and an addition effort by the authors in preparing their final version would be extremely helpful. References 1. Changeux JP, Courrège P, Danchin A: A theory of the epigenesis of neuronal networks by selective stabilization of synapses. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 1973; 70 (10): 2974-8 PubMed Abstract 2. Kolodkin AL, Tessier-Lavigne M: Mechanisms and molecules of neuronal wiring: a primer. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol . 2011; 3 (6). PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Edelstein SJ. Reviewer Report For: Breeding novel solutions in the brain: A model of Darwinian neurodynamics [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2416 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10377.r16965 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2416/v1#referee-response-16965 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 29 Jun 2017 Istvn Zachar , Ecology and Theoretical Biology, Institute of Biology, Eötvös University, Budapest, Hungary 29 Jun 2017 Author Response We are extremely thankful for Stuart J. Edelstein for his comments and suggestions. Concerning the terms we used here to relate objects and processes from neuroscience and classical Darwinism, ... Continue reading We are extremely thankful for Stuart J. Edelstein for his comments and suggestions. Concerning the terms we used here to relate objects and processes from neuroscience and classical Darwinism, we have included a glossary that summarizes the important evolutionary and neurobiological concepts that might be useful to clarify across disciplines. We are certain that this is not an absolute and perfect mapping of concepts, but should be enough to support our understanding of how the brain might work under Darwinian principles. We further direct our Reviewer’s attention to the answers we have provided for L Acsdy on the grounding of neural Darwinism within the brain (as we understand it), especially our answers to points #1, #2 about the Discussion, as those also concern the questions raised here. We simply did not want to replicate our words unnecessarily. We are extremely thankful for Stuart J. Edelstein for his comments and suggestions. Concerning the terms we used here to relate objects and processes from neuroscience and classical Darwinism, we have included a glossary that summarizes the important evolutionary and neurobiological concepts that might be useful to clarify across disciplines. We are certain that this is not an absolute and perfect mapping of concepts, but should be enough to support our understanding of how the brain might work under Darwinian principles. We further direct our Reviewer’s attention to the answers we have provided for L Acsdy on the grounding of neural Darwinism within the brain (as we understand it), especially our answers to points #1, #2 about the Discussion, as those also concern the questions raised here. We simply did not want to replicate our words unnecessarily. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 29 Jun 2017 Istvn Zachar , Ecology and Theoretical Biology, Institute of Biology, Eötvös University, Budapest, Hungary 29 Jun 2017 Author Response We are extremely thankful for Stuart J. Edelstein for his comments and suggestions. Concerning the terms we used here to relate objects and processes from neuroscience and classical Darwinism, ... Continue reading We are extremely thankful for Stuart J. Edelstein for his comments and suggestions. Concerning the terms we used here to relate objects and processes from neuroscience and classical Darwinism, we have included a glossary that summarizes the important evolutionary and neurobiological concepts that might be useful to clarify across disciplines. We are certain that this is not an absolute and perfect mapping of concepts, but should be enough to support our understanding of how the brain might work under Darwinian principles. We further direct our Reviewer’s attention to the answers we have provided for L Acsdy on the grounding of neural Darwinism within the brain (as we understand it), especially our answers to points #1, #2 about the Discussion, as those also concern the questions raised here. We simply did not want to replicate our words unnecessarily. We are extremely thankful for Stuart J. Edelstein for his comments and suggestions. Concerning the terms we used here to relate objects and processes from neuroscience and classical Darwinism, we have included a glossary that summarizes the important evolutionary and neurobiological concepts that might be useful to clarify across disciplines. We are certain that this is not an absolute and perfect mapping of concepts, but should be enough to support our understanding of how the brain might work under Darwinian principles. We further direct our Reviewer’s attention to the answers we have provided for L Acsdy on the grounding of neural Darwinism within the brain (as we understand it), especially our answers to points #1, #2 about the Discussion, as those also concern the questions raised here. We simply did not want to replicate our words unnecessarily. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Friston K. Reviewer Report For: Breeding novel solutions in the brain: A model of Darwinian neurodynamics [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :2416 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10377.r16922 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2416/v1#referee-response-16922 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 11 Oct 2016 Karl Friston , Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, London, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10377.r16922 This is a thought provoking simulation study of Darwinian neurodynamics. It uses populations of attractor networks to illustrate the distinction between purely selectionist and evolutionary optimisation. This demonstration rests upon the dynamical instability of the neuronal networks considered – and ... Continue reading READ ALL 