This is a mixed methods exploratory study on injection safety and related factors, including training programs, in a hospital in Vietnam. The article is aptly written, though with caveats to be mentioned. Statistical treatment is unsophisticated but sufficient for the kind and aims of observations made in the text. More advanced statistical treatment could potentially reveal further interesting features of the data. I felicitate the authors for sharing their work on this important issue, and for having undertaken such work in the first place. I would also first ask the authors to look at and respond to the comments by Dr. Sindhu. He makes a series of points that do need either clarification or correction. Some of the discrepancies he mentions, looking at your spreadsheets, might be caused by missing data. But where that is the case it should be reflected in the text, which it currently isn't, leading attentive readers to confusion. On language , the text is of good quality, but there are a few mistakes that ought to be avoided as they may lead to confusing interpretations by unfamiliar readers: (a) "unsafe injection (...) is the major cause of transmission of diseases such as hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV " , one can see the authors mean "is a major cause"; (b) "Data was encrypted", one supposes the authors mean "anonymized"; (d) "The results of the in-depth interviews show the cause of unsafe injection", one supposes the author means "show some possible causes of"; On the data provided , I could not find the dataset with the 436 observed injections. Both datasets provided contain 109 entries, so both seem to have one entry per nurse. However, the columns of the second dataset seem to refer to the injection assessment questionnaire, which I would expect to have one entry per injection, thus 436 entries. I would ask the authors to either better explain what is showed in this spreadsheet, or provide the full dataset if there was some mistake - or both if this is an intermediate dataset. It would also be useful, in case the original questionnaires were applied in Vietnamese, to have copies of those as well, for the sake of future research. On the analysis , given the goal of understanding the impact of training programs, why wasn't the relationship between "trained in the last year" and "correct SI practice" considered? Also, table 5 doesn't show the numbers for "knowledge of SI" and "correct practice" which are mentioned in the text. Still on the analysis, when the authors mention "A number of recommendations can be made based on the results of the study...", it seems those 5 recommendations are presented without a specific order or priority, and they are presented disconnected from the previous analysis. First, the lack of an established priority should be made explicit by avoiding numeric items. Other than that, it should be attempted to provide some cue to the reader as to whether a recommendation is supported by the statistical analysis, by the interviews, or both, even if the reader could in principle recover this by going back and forth in the text. On the discussion , given that the account of qualitative interviews emphasizes nurse overload, I would suggest for this study to recommend that future studies include some quantitative account of the level of overload that goes beyond the simple number of injections, as nurses can be overloaded by other issues. I would mention, for one, the literature on burnout syndrome. 