The paper present a new method to predict protein function based on machine translation concepts. In this scenario, protein sequences and their gene ontology terms are interpreted as words in different languages. The idea is to find the best translation for a protein sequence, that is, its most likely gene ontology terms. The method has two phase: training and inference. During the training, protein sequences are broken into several segments and then these segments are related to gene ontology terms. This mapping between protein segments and gene ontology terms constitutes the parallel corpus and it is learned during the training phase. Next, the inference is carried out by an statistical machine translation system that translates a new protein sequence into gene ontology terms by using the collection of translated pairs (parallel corpus) learned previously. My main issue with this paper is the way how sequences are broken into segments. It is well known that some segments such as motifs and domains are essential to predict protein functions. The author must explore them to enrich their model. A second point concerning the results, they are disappointing. The method did not outperform BLAST that is one of the simpler existing method for protein function prediction. The comparison was not properly done, what is the false positive rates for both methods? Authors must compare the methods by using classical measures such as precision, recall and F-measure and a ROC curve could be plotted. Moreover, the authors did not compare their approach with state-of-art methods such as SVM and HMMs. The discussion of results is really poor, the authors did not defend their method. The training and testing strategy is unusual. 95% of the data to train and just 5% to test, the author have performed a cross validation? If yes how many folds? how many times it was repeated? It is not clear in the text. The paper is not well written and there are several incompressible parts. Just to cite some of them: "Then we use a phrase-based translation model to build the amino acid sequence to protein function translation model. (I think it is "to map" instead of "to build") Here we build three groups of gene parallel corpora. Group 1 only contains human amino acid data. (the expression human amino acid data is so unusual in bioinformatics community). The author wrote in the conclusion "Since the protein functional prediction problem is so close to language translation, translation based protein functional prediction is likely to be the most promising approach." I do not agree that protein functional prediction is close to language translation problem. There are a lot additional points, for example evolution. In my opinion, we cannot interpret proteins as words. Anyway, the results have not showed that it is the most promising approach.