The authors have developed a web tool called Oncoyeasti, which bridges the gap between yeast and human ortholog gene symbols, and allows for easier submission of the queried genes to the TCGA/cBioportal database search. While this software can be useful, the following issues have to be addressed: Major points: Oncoyeasti should be able to retrieve the full list of human homologs that match to the yeast orthologs. For instance, if Sch9 is an ortholog of the Akt family, the output should be Akt1, Akt2, Akt3, rather than Akt3 only. Oncoyeasti does not seem to retrieve some human orthologs accurately. For example, when TOR1 and TOR2 are queried, TOR1 matches to SMG1, while TOR2 matches to mTOR. In reality, both yeast TOR1 and yeast TOR2 should match to human mTOR. Additionally, PKC1, YPK1, and YPK2 all match to Akt3, but they should match to PRKCE and SGK2 instead. Thus, the Oncoyeasti database needs to be improved for accurate yeast-to-human gene symbol matching. The NCBI’s Homologene database can be employed for this purpose. If a certain yeast gene does not have a human ortholog, this should be reported in the output of Oncoyeasti (instead of only reporting those that have a human ortholog and skipping those that don’t have a human ortholog). Minor points: The article would benefit from grammatical and typographical improvement. This is especially important where such mistakes may lead to misunderstanding of the authors’ message by the readers. Some examples: a) “the backbone of cancer, treatment” should be “the backbone of cancer treatment”. b) “BRAFV600E” should be “BRAF-V600E” or “BRAF V600E ”. c) “BRAFV600E amplification” should be “BRAF-V600E mutation”, since the V600E mutation is not an amplification. d) “containing only 10% of the DNA of human chromosomes” should be rephrased. e) “humologs” should be “homologs”. f) “MSQL” should be either “MySQL” or “mSQL”. g) “feature rich” should be “feature-rich”. h) “cross cancer” should be “cross-cancer”. The introduction part of the manuscript should be as concise and as relevant as possible. Since Oncoyeasti does not address the cancer heterogeneity directly, that part of the introduction seems unimportant for the manuscript. The presentation of the output can be improved. For instance, the following sentence occupies a large area in the output, but the actual link-containing columns are squeezed to the right end of the page: “THE NEXT COLUMNS CONTAINS ONCOPRINT OF TUMOR GROUPS PRESENT IN CROSS CANCER SUMMARY STUDIES OF THE PATIENT TUMOR SETS PRESENT IN TCGA DATABASE”. 