Strengths: The paper has described some early warning indicators (EWI) recorded at 42 outpatient clinics (OPC) in northern Vietnam, assisting on having better directions for minimizing risks for HIV drug resistance given the growing widespread of antiretro therapy (ART). Weak points and suggestions for revision: the paper has some points in need of being re-considered: Introduction: paragraph 2, the authors wrote, “As of December 2011, (…….). The total number of HIV infections treated with ARV was increased to 600, an increase of 25 times…” The number 600 seems not to be correct because, as of 2011, more than 60,000 HIV cases were reported to get ART according to a VAAC report. The authors should check information and revise the number accordingly. Methods: There were inconsistencies between assessing indicators and outcomes. In the paragraph “Variables and measurements”, the paper listed only four indicators, including (1) percentage of patients that were prescribed the correct regimen when starting ART treatment; (2) percentage of ART patients that were lost to follow-up after 12 months; (3) percentage of patients that arrived on time for a doctor’s appointment; and (4) percentage of patients that retained first-line ART after 12 months of treatment whereas in RESULTS section, there is one additional indicator entitled “the availability of antiretroviral drugs”. However, the latter indicator has not been described and discussed thereafter. The authors should provide additional information for this indicator in the method, results and discussion sections. Results: Information described in the results section are not compatible with those in the data table. In paragraph 2 of Results section, the paper has the OPC name as “Quang Yen Hospital, Quang Ninh” whereas Table 2 reported the information as “Yen Hung, Quang Ninh”. Information in descriptive words and in the table should be consistent. Discussion: The authors wrote, “33/42 (78.6%) facilities reached the goal for patients arriving on time for appointments” but data in Table 2 revealed that only 31/42 OPC reached the goal for patients arriving on time for appointments and 1/42 OPC had no data (N/A). We suggest the authors review and revise information to correct this. In short, the paper is not well-cohesive and information insufficient. The outcomes described in results section are quite simple, but few indicators unstated in the former sections have been discussed in DISCUSSION section. Moreover, the limitation section has been intertwined into the results section, making it more or less difficult for readers to follow through. The authors should re-structure information pieces to appropriate order to make the paper more cohesive. 