 Introduction: The structure of the introduction was greatly improved. However, my comments for the contents are almost the same as before. Although the authors responded that they could not find any other papers, there are papers that have investigated the effect of different residue amounts on infiltration rate, both tilled and non-tilled, and also with crop rotations (for example, Johnson et al. , 2016 1 ; Singh et al. , 2016 2 , and other many references in the recent paper, Sindelar et al. , 2019 3 ). Actually, the one the authors cited (from 1940) did not even investigate about “incorporated residue quantity”, but rather they left the residue on the surface. Therefore the author’s description such as “the relation between the quantity of applied residue and infiltration rate has been less studied” is not convincing, which makes this introduction fail to justify the importance of this study. The below are some new comments to the author’s reply: 1. My previous comment: “Also the authors are mainly writing about no-tillage results in the introduction, and failed to summarize enough references that have investigated the effect of residues under tilled conditions. There are many papers on this topic (for example, the effect of organic matter or green manure application under tilled cropping system).” Authors’ reply: I have no idea why you think so. We mentioned only about the tillage system in the second paragraph. My new comments: I do not consider that mentioning only one paper from 1940 is enough for “summarize enough references that have investigated the effect of residues under tilled condition”. 2. My previous comment: “The experimental design has to match the aims stated in the introduction. For the 1st aim, it is necessary to compare the relationship between plant residue and infiltration rate under different cropping sequences (for example, consecutive corn cropping vs. corn-rose grass-okra cropping is necessary).” Authors’ reply: I don't agree with you. It means that there is a relation in crop rotation if the relation was found in crop rotation. The same thing can be said to the cited study. My new comments: The 1 st aim in the second version text was “to determine whether the relation between residue incorporation and infiltration holds under crop rotation”. Since the question is whether or not the relation (under mono cropping) “holds” under crop rotation as well, and that “The effect of residue incorporation is unclear” according to your second version text, the relationship under mono cropping need to be investigated as well to answer the 1 st aim. 3. My previous comment: “For the second aim, factorial design of different amounts of root mass, and different amounts of crop residue incorporation is needed. The experimental design described here is not suitable for the aims stated in the introduction.” Authors’ reply: We did. Unless, how can we show the figure 1 a)? However, we need to explain the outliers. The answer is figure 1 b). My new comments: The authors 2 nd aim was “to determine whether the remaining underground root mass influences this relation”. To do this, the interaction effect between the effect of residue amount, and the effect of root mass is to be tested. Correlation is just a correlation, and having any outlier cannot provide any evidence for causation. I think the data can be interesting if a proper purpose (research question) is set and analyzed according to the actual experimental design, but the current statistical analysis is just not working for the purpose stated in the introduction. Results: The first sentence is not results, but methods. The second and third paragraph contains discussion and conclusion. Please do not include any interpretation in the results section. Discussion: Expecting to have completely different discussion after re-considering the research purpose (research question) and the results with revised statistical analysis. References 1. Johnson J, Strock J, Tallaksen J, Reese M: Corn stover harvest changes soil hydrology and soil aggregation. Soil and Tillage Research . 2016; 161 : 106-115 Publisher Full Text 2. Singh V, Yadvinder-Singh, Dwivedi B, Singh S, et al.: Soil physical properties, yield trends and economics after five years of conservation agriculture based rice-maize system in north-western India. Soil and Tillage Research . 2016; 155 : 133-148 Publisher Full Text 3. Sindelar M, Blanco-Canqui H, Jin V, Ferguson R: Cover Crops and Corn Residue Removal: Impacts on Soil Hydraulic Properties and Their Relationships with Carbon. Soil Science Society of America Journal . 2019; 83 (1). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: soil science, vegetable cultivation I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Miyazawa K. Reviewer Report For: Root mass may affect soil water infiltration more strongly than the incorporated residue [version 7; peer review: 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2020, 7 :1523 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22356.r52862 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1523/v3#referee-response-52862 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 20 Sep 2019 Masato Oda , Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences, Owashi, Japan 20 Sep 2019 Author Response For the first, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for improving the manuscript. 1. As for the citations The qualitative study and the quantitative study are quite different. We ... Continue reading For the first, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for improving the manuscript. 1. As for the citations The qualitative study and the quantitative study are quite different. We will add the description in the manuscript. All three studies you cited are qualitative study. In addition, Singh's doesn't aim to "infiltration" and Sindelar's (2019) is new than our manuscript (2018). We noticed Russell's study was also not suitable for citing; therefore, we will delete the citation and the related sentences. 2. About the needs of control plots Do you think the relation between aboveground biomass of previous crop and soil water infiltration rate would be changed by the existence of mono-crop plots? Of course, doesn't! Note, we will delete the sentences that mention about mono-crop according to the change of the citation. 3. The "2nd aim" Please read carefully the manuscript. "2nd aim" you call is not our 2nd aim but an unexpected result. As you've admitted, the data can be interesting. That is the reason we report as a "Brief report" (cf. F1000Research guideline, "descriptions of unexpected observations") 4. The writing style The styles of F1000Research is not strict because of the wide scope. I believe readability is important to inform the findings. The concise summary of methods is helpful for understanding the results (cf. Science Research Writing: A Guide for Non-Native Speakers of English). The border of a section between "result" and "discussion" is obscure. Although, it is said that results are "what is that" and discussions are "what they mean''. They are closely related, so the section "Results and discussion" is seen in some journals. In the present study, I tried to show the location of the present study in the research map in the discussion section. 5. Additional correction We will correct the word "exponential" to "logistical" in the sentence of "A previous study has shown that the decrease in water erosion rates with increasing root mass is exponential". The correction does not change the direction of the discussion. For the first, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for improving the manuscript. 1. As for the citations The qualitative study and the quantitative study are quite different. We will add the description in the manuscript. All three studies you cited are qualitative study. In addition, Singh's doesn't aim to "infiltration" and Sindelar's (2019) is new than our manuscript (2018). We noticed Russell's study was also not suitable for citing; therefore, we will delete the citation and the related sentences. 2. About the needs of control plots Do you think the relation between aboveground biomass of previous crop and soil water infiltration rate would be changed by the existence of mono-crop plots? Of course, doesn't! Note, we will delete the sentences that mention about mono-crop according to the change of the citation. 3. The "2nd aim" Please read carefully the manuscript. "2nd aim" you call is not our 2nd aim but an unexpected result. As you've admitted, the data can be interesting. That is the reason we report as a "Brief report" (cf. F1000Research guideline, "descriptions of unexpected observations") 4. The writing style The styles of F1000Research is not strict because of the wide scope. I believe readability is important to inform the findings. The concise summary of methods is helpful for understanding the results (cf. Science Research Writing: A Guide for Non-Native Speakers of English). The border of a section between "result" and "discussion" is obscure. Although, it is said that results are "what is that" and discussions are "what they mean''. They are closely related, so the section "Results and discussion" is seen in some journals. In the present study, I tried to show the location of the present study in the research map in the discussion section. 5. Additional correction We will correct the word "exponential" to "logistical" in the sentence of "A previous study has shown that the decrease in water erosion rates with increasing root mass is exponential". The correction does not change the direction of the discussion. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 20 Sep 2019 Masato Oda , Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences, Owashi, Japan 20 Sep 2019 Author Response For the first, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for improving the manuscript. 1. As for the citations The qualitative study and the quantitative study are quite different. We ... Continue reading For the first, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for improving the manuscript. 1. As for the citations The qualitative study and the quantitative study are quite different. We will add the description in the manuscript. All three studies you cited are qualitative study. In addition, Singh's doesn't aim to "infiltration" and Sindelar's (2019) is new than our manuscript (2018). We noticed Russell's study was also not suitable for citing; therefore, we will delete the citation and the related sentences. 2. About the needs of control plots Do you think the relation between aboveground biomass of previous crop and soil water infiltration rate would be changed by the existence of mono-crop plots? Of course, doesn't! Note, we will delete the sentences that mention about mono-crop according to the change of the citation. 3. The "2nd aim" Please read carefully the manuscript. "2nd aim" you call is not our 2nd aim but an unexpected result. As you've admitted, the data can be interesting. That is the reason we report as a "Brief report" (cf. F1000Research guideline, "descriptions of unexpected observations") 4. The writing style The styles of F1000Research is not strict because of the wide scope. I believe readability is important to inform the findings. The concise summary of methods is helpful for understanding the results (cf. Science Research Writing: A Guide for Non-Native Speakers of English). The border of a section between "result" and "discussion" is obscure. Although, it is said that results are "what is that" and discussions are "what they mean''. They are closely related, so the section "Results and discussion" is seen in some journals. In the present study, I tried to show the location of the present study in the research map in the discussion section. 5. Additional correction We will correct the word "exponential" to "logistical" in the sentence of "A previous study has shown that the decrease in water erosion rates with increasing root mass is exponential". The correction does not change the direction of the discussion. For the first, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for improving the manuscript. 1. As for the citations The qualitative study and the quantitative study are quite different. We will add the description in the manuscript. All three studies you cited are qualitative study. In addition, Singh's doesn't aim to "infiltration" and Sindelar's (2019) is new than our manuscript (2018). We noticed Russell's study was also not suitable for citing; therefore, we will delete the citation and the related sentences. 2. About the needs of control plots Do you think the relation between aboveground biomass of previous crop and soil water infiltration rate would be changed by the existence of mono-crop plots? Of course, doesn't! Note, we will delete the sentences that mention about mono-crop according to the change of the citation. 3. The "2nd aim" Please read carefully the manuscript. "2nd aim" you call is not our 2nd aim but an unexpected result. As you've admitted, the data can be interesting. That is the reason we report as a "Brief report" (cf. F1000Research guideline, "descriptions of unexpected observations") 4. The writing style The styles of F1000Research is not strict because of the wide scope. I believe readability is important to inform the findings. The concise summary of methods is helpful for understanding the results (cf. Science Research Writing: A Guide for Non-Native Speakers of English). The border of a section between "result" and "discussion" is obscure. Although, it is said that results are "what is that" and discussions are "what they mean''. They are closely related, so the section "Results and discussion" is seen in some journals. In the present study, I tried to show the location of the present study in the research map in the discussion section. 5. Additional correction We will correct the word "exponential" to "logistical" in the sentence of "A previous study has shown that the decrease in water erosion rates with increasing root mass is exponential". The correction does not change the direction of the discussion. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 05 Mar 2019 Revised Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Miyazawa K. Reviewer Report For: Root mass may affect soil water infiltration more strongly than the incorporated residue [version 7; peer review: 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2020, 7 :1523 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.20109.r45282 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1523/v2#referee-response-45282 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 06 Mar 2019 Kae Miyazawa , Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.20109.r45282 Introduction: I could see some improvement in the introduction structure, however, it is still not structured enough to explain the importance of this research. For example, there is no explanation in the introduction about why it ... Continue reading READ ALL 