 The conclusion and abstract ending are contradictory. Ex: In the abstract, the authors said, “but is safe for the general population”. However, in conclusion, they said “there is a significant health risk associated with mercury exposure through the consumption of Nile tilapia within the Migori gold mining belt”. Moreover, in the result section, the Hg concentration of fish is more than 0.5 mg/kg, that means it is above the maximum allowable limits. So, what basis authors concluded that it is safe for general population. Hence, my suggestion is it is necessary to re-wording the abstract and conclusion part. CRM: in the results section, the authors mentioned that they run two types of CRM and spiking sample. If so, they need to point out the given value, achieved value, recovery%, number of samples, like information from the beginning of results section. But I didn’t see those CRM results under the section. Health risk assessment. I guess, that the results are misleading to the population and scientific community. Because, you said that MS=232 g, but those are not in your country. That consumption rate was from Iran. Hence, you need to calculate Kenyan fish consume volume. Moreover, 232 g is total fish volume, the liver and brain volume (weight) were below than that. I guessed, that it will be less than 10 g. In your calculation, you assume, the whole consume volume (232 g) is equal to brain or liver (or in another word, Kenyan people consume 232 g of fish brain/liver). Hence, you got high value for THQ. So, you need to conduct basic survey to find the fish consumption rate in study area. Or if it is not practical now, you need to use Kenyan fish consumption data to calculate the health risk assessment. Meantime, authors need to observe the cooking process also, why I said that, as an example, in my country, fish liver (small fish) is going to waste and not consume. Conclusion: Authors need to address the above point, and agree to accept the manuscript with major revision. 