This study has compared the specificity of a panel of antibodies against VAMP7, a member of the SNARE protein family. Using CRISPR/Cas9 to create a HeLa-VAMP7 knockout cell line together with knockout mouse tissues the authors effectively demonstrate that the panel of antibodies are able to recognise the endogenous VAMP7 protein, the majority performing effectively in both WB and IF. Image analysis was performed to profile the signal-to-noise index in both techniques. While this does provide quantitative data with which to prioritise the antibodies, I reached the same conclusions without needing the profiling data. This approach may indeed have utility in other projects but perhaps consideration should be given to incorporating a measure for antibody sensitivity. Antibodies with similar specificity and different levels of sensitivity may have a similar specificity index score but may not be equally useful. Two antibodies were also validated for their ability to IP recombinant orthologous VAMP7 proteins and one for IP of the endogenous protein. This is a useful comparative study that will be of interest to other researchers sourcing antibodies to further characterise this molecule. Comments: 1) P3: For clarity I would suggest rephrasing ‘Invalidation’ of VAMP7 as inactivation, knockout or deletion. 2) P5 and P9 bottom left column: Readers are referred to Table 3 for dilutions of primary antibodies yet this information seems to be provided in Table 1. 3) While the image analysis provides quantitative information, the best antibodies identified using this approach were also easily identifiable by looking at the WB and IF images presented. With regard to the WB data in Figure 1, if just using the WB specificity index then there potentially appeared to be relatively little to choose between the two best antibodies. However, by eye, TG50 appears to have much greater sensitivity for VAMP7 detection, yet this distinction is not conveyed by a score which focuses on signal-to-noise. 4) In Figure 2 – there is clearly significant heterogeneity in the distribution of VAMP7 both within and between individual HeLa cells. It is not clear from the methods whether data from individual cells or a large number were used to generate the IF specificity index and this information should be provided. The data would be more robust if multiple cells were sampled. 5) Figure 2 indicates Cell Signaling 14811 performed poorly, however on the supplier’s site this antibody (D4D5J) is not recommended for IF and it is clearly stated by the authors in the results that an alternative (D8Y1R) was used. This might just be an error in labelling on the figure? However, the text describing these IF data also refers to the antibody being used as 14811 (which is D4D5J). This needs to be clarified and it would be helpful within the manuscript and figures to consistently refer to either the clone names or the catalogue number when describing an antibody. 6) In the discussion the authors correctly comment that not using individually optimised conditions for each antibody in IF may disadvantage some of the reagents. I think it would have been more helpful to other researchers wanting to know which antibody works best for IF to be able to compare images obtained using an optimal staining protocol, such as that determined by each manufacturer. 7) In the discussion the authors comment on the sensitivity of 158.2 being insufficient to detect low levels of the endogenous VAMP7 protein by WB. When TG50 seemed to be more sensitive in WB analysis then it would perhaps have been the more obvious choice for the WB detection antibody. This point could be added to the discussion. 