The authors present an R script and an additional datafile to calculate cardiovascular risk using the Who/ISH risk assessment charts. Previous implementations required the use of MatLab and I believe an R implementation can be an useful addition to the field. The authors intended to design a code requiring little R expertise. I think the authors have only partly succeeded in accomplishing this goal and the code still needs to be improved. As mentioned by the other reviewers, RTF is far from an optimal format to distribute the code. The authors should present their code as a package hosted in some repository. Currently the RTF file contains the function definition, data loading and working example in a single view. When creating the package the authors should clearly separate the code from the documentation and provide a working example. If the authors intent this tool to be used and possibly modified by users with little R expertise then a separate file with detailed instruction should be provided. The authors state that users can modify the WHO_ISH_Scores.csv file to represent other risk categories. That would require explanation of the content of the file. Although the used abbreviations gdr for gender might seem obvious, they should be explained. Also when downloading the file from F1000, the file name is changed and appears as “5ae9107XXX..._WHO_ISH_Scores.csv” so that the reading fails. This could be fixed by including the file as a dataset in the corresponding package. When data from multiple patients are provided (as in the example) the output is a factor. I think it would help the users match input and output values is some tabular format or some patient identifier is provided in the output. If any of the input parameters are missing (NA values) the code outputs “NA” but no information regarding the missing values is provided. It might be helpful if the code were to report which value was actually missing. Fig. 1 shows the code and contains mainly information on how some continuous variables (age, cholesterol and systolic blood pressure are discretized). I think a more efficient way of conveying this information is by including it in Table 1.