Software is the driving force for data science. However, lacking documentation hinders the adoption and usage of certain software tools. In this article, Bruno et.al described the advantages and challenges of hackathon-based tutorial development to promote software usage. Additionally, the authors shared their experience with remote participation of hackathons. Overall, the laid-out points are practical and useful to the community. I have several comments below. I just learned that documentation has four different functions: tutorials, how-to-guides, explanation and technical references 1 . They are distinct from each other and good documentation needs to be structured around them and be separated from each other. Specifically, a tutorial is learning-oriented; a how-to-guide is goal-oriented; an explanation is understanding-oriented and a reference guide is information-oriented. That being said, it would be good for the authors to make it clear that a tutorial is only one part of the function of documentation. The authors did not provide any details of the hackathon. It will be good to have examples. E.g. what tutorials were developed for what tools? If hackathon-driven tutorial development is successful, the authors may need to provide what they have accomplished by developing the tutorials and provide some feedback on the user-end of that tool. Are there any other challenges besides choosing topics, identifying existing tutorials and selecting a dataset? Are there any challenges in organizing such a hackathon? Are there any challenges for remote attendance? E.g. if the attendants are in a different time-zone, how the peer-review was conducted in a timely manner? The sentence: “minimal documentation consists of describing inputs and outputs for individual functions” should contain “arguments/parameters” as well. If one shortens this sentence “These tools require advanced domain-specific knowledge, which is often difficult to acquire and keep up-to-date considering the rate at which new methods become available and best practices evolve. This difficulty primarily stems from incomplete or unclear documentation.” to “Difficulties in acquiring domain-specific knowledge primary stems from incomplete or unclear documentation.” This is not true. Please re-structure the sentence. 