The commentary of Potter et al. draws parallels from their finding that GM-CSF ameliorates intrinsic and viral neuro-inflammation induced in the course of Alzheimer's disease and West Nile Virus infection, respectively. The authors propose that the application of GM-CSF may have utility for the treatment of COVID-19. Neurotropism for SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory coronaviruses has been documented, although this is not discussed in the present commentary as a relevant source of targetable neuroinflammation by GM-CSF administration. Supporting a beneficial role of GM-CSF, there is an abundance of studies that supplementation of GM-CSF in the airway enhances resistance to viral and bacterial pneumonia and, furthermore, that therapeutic GM-CSF inhalation can stabilize critical illness by macrophages increasing the odds for survival. These beneficial effects are observed locally at a high GM-CSF dosage. It is well-established that the effects of GM-CSF on myeloid cell behavior, activation, and interactions interfacing innate and adaptive immunity are concentration- and source-dependent. Homeostatic functions of GM-CSF at local sites, such as surfactant metabolism by alveolar macrophages may contribute to anti-inflammatory scavenging and repair of tissue damage at a time of need. On the other hand, activated lymphocytes unloading their GM-CSF payload in inflammatory immune synapses during immune remediation against an infectious agent could deliver substantial collateral damage and tissue destruction. To this end, there is an abundance of studies that GM-CSF contributes to adverse inflammation in multiple sterile and non-sterile inflammatory models, autoimmune disease models, and in chronic inflammatory disease caused by chronic environmental exposures such as smoking. Buttressing a detrimental contribution of GM-CSF in the development of COVID-19, there are a plethora of clinical trials underway to neutralize GM-CSF signaling. This, however, is evolving against a backdrop of disappointing data that IL-6 blockade in the Sanofi and Regeneron trials were not effective for the treatment of COVID-19. The article could be updated with this latest information, although the effects of GM-CSF in such trials remains to be seen. The challenge in designing immuno-modulatory therapies for COVID-19 is the systemic nature of the syndrome. Timing, disease stage, manifestation, and severity, dosage, and route of administration are critical parameters. Significant research effort is, therefore, required to inform the decision making process for GM-CSF supplementation or blockade given the diverse functions of resident myeloid cell populations in different tissues. A more discerning argument on the compartmental utility of GM-CSF in preventing cognitive sequelae of COVID-19 is thus warranted. 