I personally have some level of discomfort with looking at the risks of invasions (or other environmental problems) solely from the point of view of consequences (called economic value at risk here) without also considering likelihood. This has been addressed to some degree in the introduction, but I think needs to be further emphasized both in the introduction and the discussion/conclusions. One reason for including likelihood is that it reduces the danger that a result can be considered alarmist and dismissed. The well-known human failings in assessing risk by focusing on consequences rather than likelihood is very well discussed in the literature. Examples include the risk of a nuclear accident being perceived as of greater risk to an individual’s health than smoking. A second reason is that including probabilities moves the assessment from qualitative, or semi-quantitative (as in this case) to fully quantitative, and this tends to require a more systematic consideration of the problem. There are two major areas where I think the papers needs modifying, one of which, if I have interpreted the methods correctly, would reduce estimated losses by about 2/3: There is no discussion of earlier estimates of the impacts of the green crab on Puget Sound shellfish (and other) resources – e.g. Lafferty and Kuris, 1996 (Ecology) , or costs of marine invasives in general (e.g. Williams and Grosholz, 2008 (Estuaries and Coasts) .) The assumption that green crab would have a diet of 60-100% harvestable shellfish, is not well supported by any literature provided, but will directly affect the conclusions. The approach taken of simply adding the predation estimates for each species together is not realistic. One could equally argue that they are interchangeable and that shellfish (e.g. because of handling time?) would never form more of the diet than that represented by one species. At the individual crab level, each crab would have to move between beds or farms of the three species every day. If they did not, and stayed in one area as seems likely, they would only have the opportunity to eat one of the three shellfish species each day (week? month? year?). So I believe that adding them together is unrealistic. I would also like to see the following points addressed: It is assumed that a green crab invasion would be uniform, through time and space, in Puget Sound. How realistic is this? There seems to be no allowance for the influence of predator-prey size ratios on the ability of green crabs to attack their prey. What effect will this have? Is there a size beyond which shellfish are protected? Could rearing practices reduce the impact of predation? What is the impact of reduced prey numbers on the growth and survival rate of the remaining shellfish? What is the impact of the green crab on reducing existing predation from crabs that it will displace? There is no discussion of price elasticity in supply. Would prices of shellfish stay the same if supply dropped by 60% as suggested? I did not note any discussion of expenses. Net profit would be a more informative indicator than revenue. The numbers in Table 2 for direct loss of shellfish (0.2 to 55.9%) do not seem to agree with those in Table 3 (0.3 to 68.7%), or in those in the text describing the results. 