 General feedback This paper reports on knowledge, attitudes and practice or behaviours of diabetes patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) surveyed while attending an out-patients clinic in Suva, Fiji in 2018. Despite patients having a major complication of diabetes, indicating poor control of HbA1c, hypertension and tobacco use, overall patients displayed a good knowledge, attitude and behavioural practice toward diabetes. This may reflect increased knowledge and practice in long-term diabetes patients who have to manage a serious complication or it may reflect a disconnect between knowledge and good self-management. Overall, authors identify factors that relate to knowledge, attitudes and practice that may influence health behaviour and outcomes in diabetes patients with CKD. However, authors need to carefully edit this manuscript, greatly reduce the word count by deleting repetitive themes, ensure results are clear, review reference groups for multiple linear regression analyses and adhere to the usual academic writing style. Specific suggestions to improve the paper are outlined below. Title – suggest 'Determinants of knowledge, attitude and practice in patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease in Fiji' Abstract: Methods Only refer to Fiji and elaborate later, only include the year and self-administered questionnaire. You need to include the number of patients / total who came to the clinical and number in study. Avoid most abbreviations in the abstract. Remove unnecessary descriptions: name of hospital (Fijian citizens, special out-patients department, (Suva, Fiji is sufficient). Remove most of the statistical information and leave this to methods section. Results Outline numbers in study Response rate – this is very important Results: Out of what score i.e. 23.3 / 30. Can you qualify ‘unemployed’. For example, are these mostly students, mothers are they collecting an unemployment benefit, are they actively seeking work. As it stands this large group of participants do not typically resemble ‘unemployed people’ (around 5% in developed countries at the moment. Explain why so many people in the study were ‘unemployed’. This will help you contextualise unemployed group surveyed. Conclusion Summarise the main outcomes are rather than KAP so the reader fully understands this and avoid just repeating the results. Introduction Please give some more details about diabetes in Fiji – almost all have type 2 I believe. What proportion have CKD (what proportion are on dialysis and is this available to al. What is the mortality rate for patients with CKD. If you cannot find national data can you look at the data from the clinic? If not you need to suggest that this is done in a ‘recommendation section’ in the discussion. It is important to give readers a sense of the seriousness of the epidemic in Pacific countries. Grammar Remove first sentence Delete all emotive language i.e. ‘this is quite worrying’ instead compare 15.6% with other populations. Paragraph two – check description. When was this developed and is it considered the best tool to test these attributes. Is there evidence to suggest that patients who score highly are more likely to have fewer complications? Has this been used before in high-risk patients (diabetes and CKD)? Paragraph 3 – change beginning to: This is the first study in Fiji … Methods Sample – it is important to describe this. What number of patients registered at the clinical with diabetes and CKD? Look at your sample does this represent the gender, ages, ethnicity, education etc. of the total outpatient clinic – this is what you need to discuss regarding selection bias. If Polynesian Fijians are less likely to come for appointments, are they underrepresented? Also comment on this in the limitation section especially if you cannot get these details about the total cohort of patients registered. If you cannot get data on the total cohort i.e. to check gender, age and ethnicity then you need to discuss whether the patients sampled are representative of all patients registered or enrolled in the clinic. Are all patients in Suva able to register – what about rural based patients? Unemployed – I suggest a different definition. It important you give more information about ‘unemployed’ because your finding do not fit the usual picture. A third of your sample are unemployed. How was this defined i.e. on a benefit, actively looking for work and what is the unemployment rate in Fiji. I wonder if a large proportion of these participants are students or recent graduates i.e. well educated but not employed. Are better-off family members or partners supporting some of them? If many are in the younger age categories this might be the case so you could have a look at the data. Alternatively, are they too sick to work? If Fiji has a very high unemployment rate then you need to explain this so that the reader knows that being unemployed is different to the usual characteristics of most unemployed people receiving a benefit. If there is a strong other characteristic such as recent university graduate then call this something else i.e. currently seeking employment or something that better defines them. It is very confusing for readers as this group are atypical. Are they largely mothers who have not returned to the workforce? Please briefly define how ‘knowledge, attitude and practice’ were measured and explain the main focus of the knowledge questionnaire i.e. mostly about diabetes and HbA1c control and consider including a couple of key questions. What were the main ‘attitude questions’ i.e. positive attitude, negative (explain to the reader) and similarly with practice i.e. include behaviours measured such as smoking. Consider given a couple of examples to illustrate the focus. Bring the information about the questionnaire into this section. Also, cover the history of the questionnaire. Remove unnecessary text i.e. SPOD – only include descriptions if this is necessary. Remove ‘most importantly’ – no one will participate if they don’t want to. Did they sign a consent form or give oral consent. We know you cannot make patients participant. What did you do to encourage patients to participate i.e. what measures to increase participation? Review exclusion criteria and avoid repeating ideas. What was mental ability i.e. an inability to complete the questionnaire i.e. be specific. It seems to me as if all patients with type 2 and CKD were invited to participate. However XX patients were unable to ‘read’, write or complete the questionnaire with assistance and were therefore excluded from the study. (I think only people who were incapable of completing the questionnaire were excluded so make this clear (this is good as most people were able to participate). Para 2 – review and delete as most of this is repetition Para 3 – describe accurately i.e. all patients who attended … see above most of this is repetition. A cross-sectional study is quantitative not convenient. Describe the cohort of patients eligible, were patients recruited every day during the study period. If all patients were invited, provided they could complete the questionnaire, then state this. Move comment on bias to the discussion under strengths and limitations. Para 4 – briefly state the total score in the abstract as this is important. Para 5 – Reduce this paragraph i.e. … the questionnaire was piloted by… to ensure face validity. Content validity was assessed by ?? an expert panel… (you do not need all the details that you would include in a thesis). Data collection: reduce details and write succinctly. I suggest you change ‘illiterate’ to ‘unable to complete the questionnaire on their own’ i.e. they may need glasses to read! Data analysis – how many questionnaires were handed out how many returned? Results Titles – You have far too many titles so need to reduce the number. ‘Participant’ demographic characteristics. Factors related to knowledge etc. Para 1 Avoid repeating all data from the tables – summarise i.e. over half the patients were aged 46-60 years. Avoid repeating phrases i.e. participant in this study Define intake (indigenous or Polynesian – what do people prefer) Do not use FID (think about the international reader) Fijian Indian / Fijian of Indian decent or the official term or what people prefer. Para 2 and 3 Avoid repeating results. Summarise the main points. Table 4 Go through and review all your reference groups – these should be groups with a reasonable number of people not extreme groups with few numbers i.e. use 46-60 for age, level of education use secondary, use employed, use married, income either 400 or 4-800. Abbreviations should be listed under the tables B = beta coefficient Para 4 Summarise the main points i.e. what factors were associated with knowledge … what were negatively associated. Similarly for attitude and practice Summarise overall findings – were any factors positively associated with all three attributes, two or none. Adjust text after you change the reference groups and reanalysis this data. Discussion New Para 1 Always write a summary of main findings a little like the above paragraph and use knowledge, attitude and practice. Readers need to be able to easily understand what was measured (avoid KAP in the main summaries). Are there any trends (see Para 4 above). You did not measure prevention. All of these patient were already diagnosed and have a major complication (CKD). Be specific to this group of patients sampled. You cannot generalise your results to other diabetes patients. New para 2 Comparing main results with other study findings. Typically cite the studies with same findings then studies with opposite findings. Avoid informal phrases i.e. ‘another article from the USA’ … Old Para 2 Delete first sentence this is irrelevant. Focus on Type 2 diabetes with major complications i.e. CKD. CKD is related to time since diagnosis and exposure to risk factors and other factors such as genetics, ethnicity. Para 3 Move this to the methods section and describe the total cohort of patients with type 2 and CKD registered at the outpatients clinic. Delete all judgemental statements. Include barriers to good health care facility in Fiji and cite evidence. Include a recommendation section at the end. Include recommendations to reduce barriers to healthcare i.e. mobile clinic for rural-based patients, funding so they can attend clinic, free transport (buses to clinic), convenient time for appointments. Think about why patients do not come to appointments. Para 4 Review this para. You are being very judgemental and have very few references. Please appreciate that all Pacific populations have been influenced by unhealthy western lifestyle changes. When you think about it if Pacific populations continued the behaviour of their ancestors they would be fit, lean, non-smoking and very physically active. Consider how could the Government could enact healthy lifestyle changes i.e. tax on sugar, fat and tobacco? Avoid comparing ethnic groups unless you have good evidence. Focus on your findings on knowledge, my understanding is that this was not to ethnicity! Para 5 Move this into comparisons with other studies above. Para 6 You did not measure health literacy you cannot bring this into your findings. Focus on the associations you found. Remember that you found a good mean level of knowledge and yet these patients had progressive complications for diabetes. Knowledge does not always equate to better management. Highlight that despite good self-reported ‘knowledge’ demonstrated in the survey these were high-risk patients, with a major complication and are at high risk for further poor outcomes. Can you comment on what changes need to occur in Fiji to reduce the epidemic of people developing diabetes and complications? Para 7 Review definition of ‘unemployed’. This usually refers to people receiving an unemployment benefit and looking for work. A third of the sample are ‘unemployed’ so it is very different from the usual unemployed group in developed countries. Again focus on your results and comparative studies. Avoid discussing other issues that you did not examine in your survey. Para 8 This is not clear. Do not bring in other questionnaires but refer to other studies that support your findings or contrast and try to explain why there might be differences between your sample and other populations. Unemployment in the US is very different from in Fiji i.e. 5% are unemployed in the US. Limitations Discuss the questionnaire. Is it an ideal questionnaire to test knowledge, attitudes and practice in the high-risk group of patients who already have CKD. Are other populations where this questionnaire has been tested the same as people registered in the outpatients in Suva? If not how might the questionnaire have been adapted. Were there knowledge, attitude and practice questions about CKD and management of risk factors? My understanding is that the questionnaire focused on Hba1c. I believe there were very few questions about other risk factors such a hypertension, smoking and cholesterol which are very important for good management and to avoid further renal dysfunction. Point this out as a limitation of the survey tool or questionnaire. Recommend that the questionnaire may need updating to include all risk factors for complications and adapted for those with progressive serious complications. This tool may not be a good measure of healthy behaviour in diabetes patients with CKD i.e. has it been used in this group before i.e. very high-risk group of people with type 2. This is important for other researchers to consider. You must compare you sample with the total cohort of high risk patients in the clinic not just those in the sample (age ethnicity and gender). If your sample differs from the whole cohort then it is not representative of the total cohort. You must be specific when discussing bias and why (which way will it increase bias) i.e. selection, information and confounding. Be clear which potential bias you are referring to. You must say why the sample size was small i.e. would there be greater differences or significant differences if the sample was larger. Why do you say this is not generalizable? Provide you asked all diabetes patients with CKD over the study period it will be representative of those high risk patients during the study period provided equal proportions of people not come to their clinic appointments. If this was the case you need to state this provided you have data on this. Comment on self-reported responses and the implications of this i.e. information bias toward ‘politically correct’ responses. Because this is not random error information bias in this case information bias would be in the positive direction. No clinical indices were measured. For example you do not report Hba1c so you cannot report on associations between knowledge attitude, behaviours and risk factors. New Recommendation paragraph See suggestions above. Mostly to reduce barriers to health care, support for patients to improve lifestyles and to better manage risk factors for complications. Most important how to improve healthy behaviours in this high risk patients group – they need intensive health care provision. Conclusion Summarise the main findings. Delete all data and avoid using KAP. Move the last paragraph up to the first under conclusion and focus on the main findings. You cannot make most of these statements as you do not know what those strategies are. I suggest you finish on how on further research is necessary to identify strategies to improve management and outcomes for these high risk patients. Editing required Delete all emotive language and lay descriptions i.e. on the other hand, it did not come as a surprise, this is not an easy task, it makes sense… check the whole document and delete all of these phrases. You need to write in standard academic language. Check all abbreviations and avoid non-standard abbreviations. Be consistent with people in the study either use ‘participants or patients – not subjects! Check titles and avoid unnecessary descriptors i.e. type two diabetes with CKF (we know this is the patient group). Avoid repeating participants in study. You often have this twice in one sentence or paragraph. Check capitalisation i.e. ethnicity Most authors now use ‘among’ rather than amongst. Abbreviations should be listed under the tables ‘B’ = beta coefficient. Delete all judgemental statements. 