The manuscript presents original materials on alternative splicing of rhomboid proteins. The authors discuss potential impacts on the rhomboid protein structure. The paper has good illustration and rich Supplementary materials. A lot of work done. Thus, it is technically sound. But the presentation has to be improved. A lot of unnecessary literature citations (such as 2-31). Thus, the work does not have clear literature citations. Choice of model objects is not clear. Alternative splicing prediction depends on computer tools. If we compare splice variants of the same protein (homolog) from different species, the parameters of prediction should be comparable. Some model organisms, such as human and mouse, have much more experiments and works, and just better gene annotation than for plant genomes. Thus, we can't directly compare number of splice variants. Thus, I consider the statistical analysis and its interpretation only partly appropriate. And not fully reproducible - to answer the question ' Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility?' 'Periodic comparison' or 'multi-year analysis' of the information on the proteins family databases should be explained. What is the time for database releases? What kind of trend in functional potential could annotation of these proteins prove? I recommend remove that part of the paper. The study is based on the work by the authors in 2012 on the Arabidopsis thaliana homologs containing alternative splice variants. The current article should show novel materials and conclusion. Comparison by the available information updates on these homologs from model organism databases is a weak idea. If you wait longer, more model species will be functionally annotated, and definitely some new splicing variants found. So, it could be either predictive model, or just description of all data available now on rhomboid proteins. 'Multi-year analysis' is a redundant term - I recommend remove such part of text, or reformulate it. Overall, the article presents novel ideas on the cross-species comparison of alternative splicing. This science area is growing and we might expect new evidence for alternative splicing from genome sequencing projects. The conclusions drawn by the authors are adequately supported. Thus, this work is of interest for F1000Research readers. Thus, I recommend 'Approved with Reservations ' status. 