The opinion article by Bullerdiek and Rommel provides an interesting hypothesis that is partly supported by the unusual role of MED12 in the origin of uterine leiomyoma. MED12 is mutated in these benign tumors at a hotspot location at the 5’ end of exon 2. How these mutations arise in the myometrium and how the mutant MED12 drives leiomyoma development are not known. I agree with many of the previous reviewers’ comments and will limit my comments to a few items so as not to be too repetitious. For example, I agree that there is no evidence that the MED12 mutations constitute a gain-of-function in the protein. Indeed, if MED12 mutation alone is sufficient for tumorigenesis, it would have been observed in a variety of other tumor types. In fact, no mechanisms for tumorigenesis unique to leiomyomas have been reported. Thus, how MED12 mutation leads to leiomyoma development is not known at this point. This should be changed in the text. I also agree that the argument for foreign RNA from bacterial infection causing MED12 mutation, although quite novel and certainly interesting, is weak. In addition to the reasons already discussed, ascending infections, such as the reproductive tract infections described by the authors, are likely to rarely involve the myometrium. In the case of S. aureus, it is even more unlikely because myometrial infection with that organism is likely associated with bacteremia, which is even more rare and cannot account for the prevalence of MED12 mutant fibroids in women. Also, although leiomyomas are normally found in reproductive age women, that doesn’t necessarily mean that sexually active women are more prone to the disease because of possible sexually transmission of pathogenic bacteria. Since parity is associated with a lower leiomyoma burden, the argument for reproductive tract infections being the culprit is not supported. Parity is also associated with increased risk of postpartum iatrogenic infection, but again parity is associated with decreased risk for leiomyomas. These caveats should be included in the text. There is something special about the very common MED12 mutations in that hotspot and high prevalence of uterine leiomyomas (and the not-so-common fibroadenomas) in reproductive age women. It is possible that a hormonally-regulated factor expressed only in myometrium (and breast stroma) could be interacting with wt MED12 on the site where the hotspot mutations alter the protein structure, and mutation disrupts that interaction. How those MED12 mutations occur and why the tumors/fibroadenomas develop only in those tissues is a mystery that needs to be resolved in order to develop therapies targeting the mechanisms involved. 