This article provides a valuable introduction and "lessons" perspective based on a decade of Hackathons based at NESCent. This provides a valuable perspective on the conduct and impact of this approach in an academic setting and provides a good bases for developing assessment approaches for the value of Hackathons in academic settings. I concur with the first referee that more background would enhance the value of the paper as it stands. My primary concern is with the way "intangible" outcomes are presented as "naturally hard to assess". I'm not convinced firstly with the use of the word "intangible" in this context. In many ways the primary outputs of the hacks are "intangible" code, and things described as intangible (community building, enhanced training/skills) are in some ways quite tangible. I can't readily offer a replacement term, which suggests to me that actually framing this distinction in a different way might be valuable. I would suggest considering using the language of research impact assessment of "outputs", "outcomes", and "impacts". The "tangible outcomes" described here are mostly "outputs", specific objects that are the result of the work. The "intangible outcomes" are largely "outcomes", that is effects and consequences that result from the outputs. Finally the goal of the paper seems to be to work towards ways of describing "impacts", measurable changes in the world that result from the project. I feel this matters because there is a tendency in the article to discount the possibility of evaluating these "intangible" outcomes, while at the same time there is a recognition that they may be the most important outcomes and impacts of the hack. In turn there are ways to measure these: user surveys, network analysis (pre and post), case studies (as is explored a little here), but these approaches require a degree of preparation and analysis beyond that reported here. I think the article would therefore benefit from a close look at what approaches might be deployed to measure these outcomes and impacts, and what the challenges of doing that might be. In my view this would enhance the paper significantly, particularly in its goal of starting a conversation on how best to evaluate and communicate the success of these events. More specific comments: In the Abstract: “Intangible outcomes could not be assessed objectively…” Suggest rewording this in any case. Intangible outcomes can of course be assessed objectively, just perhaps not directly. Regardless of whether you choose to make the other changes I'd reword this to something like "The less tangible [direct?] outcomes of the events are harder to track and measure, but may be amongst the most important". Introduction: There is an online literature critical of (particularly commercial) hackathons which might be worth touching on as a negative side, even if it is not peer reviewed. I'm thinking of people like Emma Mulqueeny and Chris Thorpe who have blogged on the subject of what not to do (eg https://mulqueeny.wordpress.com/2010/11/18/developers/ ). “The event may last a single day (e.g., 12), an entire week 9 , or longer 18 . The number of participants may range from a few dozen (e.g., 8, 27)” - Should those references be linked? “So, if we look at hackathons as proposal germinators, this is rather high impact. The total award amount for the two National Science Foundation grants is approximately $7.5 M. By comparison, the total amount spent on the nine NESCent hackathons was roughly $250,000.” - I wonder what the fair comparator would be here? Is ROI a sensible measure at all. It seems to me that subsequent (grant) income a good proxy for activity which is something you might want to measure. 