I continue to have concerns regarding the manuscript, that additional experiments are required to support the claims in the manuscript. With the data presented, the only conclusion is that the bacterial burden is different. No conclusions can be made, and no assessment of whether these differences are biologically relevant can be made. There are multiple variables at play here. I, in fact, think that there could be an impactful difference with the host mutation, but the authors have not performed the experiments that would either reveal the importance or demonstrate that there are potential variables not accounted for that could mask results and thus confound the current interpretations. For example, the mice were reared in two different locations and there is evidence that mice of the same genetic background obtained from different sources respond differently to infection. The housing conditions can also provide interlaboratory variation in the kinetics or outcome of infection. They indicate that their IACUC will not allow duplication of experiments, but use of additional time points to clarify mechanism and interpretation as well as perform additional methodologies to provide new insight are not considered duplication of experiments. They imply that there is additional earlier data that they have investigated (referred to as unpublished in the discussion), but are not providing the data. It would be very informative to know what the early maximum in burden is for the parental strain to know if the mutation is contributing to the control of the infection, it certainly appears to be affecting the kinetics for the time of bladder exfoliation. This additional information would provide new mechanistic insight into the role of intracellular immune responses to the control of UPEC and the control of exfoliation. In addition, the additional supplemental data provided as requested for the gating strategies of the immune cells, indicates methodologies that are not appropriate for enumeration of the different cell types. Specific cell markers are needed to distinguish the different subpopulations investigated.