General comment: This article describes difference of journal citation metrics between OA and non-OA journals in medical scope. The subjected journals are 5835 medical journals which are indexed in the Scopus and compared indices are metrics data supplied by Scopus and SCImago. The data showed significantly higher citation indices in OA journals than those in non-OA journals. The conclusion is that OA medical journals are cited more. The conclusion is known already in OA journals of other disciplines but it is valuable to publish. The conclusion is sound and positive as expected, but I think we have to think about other issues on this topic. OA means no financial barrier for readers, which can facilitate citations. But most of researchers in established institutions have no barrier to non-OA journals because their institutions are able to subscribe to the non-OA journals. For those researchers, non-OA journals are free. I think that is the main reason of the small difference of those indices between the two groups although the difference is statistically significant. The statistics must be supported by large number of subject journals. This point must be discussed. Specific comments Definition of OA: journals included in DOAJ or ROAD. There are more Scopus journals outside of the 2 directories. PubMed Central may add more OA journals. The core results are difference of the indices that must be presented in a Table. Tables 1 and 2 are supportive but not cores. For reader friendly writing, one Table is required for results described in the text. Table 2 analyzed total numbers of OA journals by publishers. It may be interesting for readers to summarize whether there are index differences by publishers. Add discussion on the difference of indices: CiteScore 0.19 vs. 1.06; Scholarly output median 157 vs. 205; Percent cited 52% vs. 48%; SNIP median 0.706 vs. 0.617. All are highly significant by p0.001. The gaps are significant but not so big because there are many other factors of citation. We should approach more details of citation analysis. 