It may be concluded as the following: 1. Clear research objectives. 2. The study design is appropriate for the objectives. However, it might be replaced by “Analytical cross sectional study design . 3. The criteria which used in this study for outcome variables were suitable. However it should add some more details about the accuracy of the methods/instruments for measuring anthropometric and biochemical measurements and also the components of the metabolic syndrome. 4 .The methods used for food intake assessment (Semi-FFQ, the picture of food sizes and kitchen equipment and INMUCAL-N version 2) sound reasonable for the study. 5. Factor analysis used to distinguish the dietary pattern of the subjects has an advantage that it can reduce the number of variables , by combing two or more variables into single factor. However, it may have some limitations which the authors of this study have mentioned already. 6.The methods of analysis and the statistical methods employed were suitable for the types of variables (nominal versus ordinal versus continuous) in this study. 7.Regarding discussion part, it might be useful for the readers if the authors mention in briefly about possible sources of bias which might be occurred and how to control or to decrease the effect of the bias in the study. 8. In conclusion part, sample population in a prospective study should include all part of Thailand (north, north- eastern, central and south). 9. Other comments for minor changes: (See PDF ) 9.1 Abstract: A cross-sectional study should be changed to An analytical cross-sectional study. 9.2 Introduction: Check grammar for writing through the chapter of introduction. 9.3 Methods: Put the meaning of STROBE in parentheses (The Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology) and check grammar for writing through the chapter of methods. 9.4 Results: Table 3 should have foot note to explain that factor loading less than 0.30 were not displayed and the factor loading shown in the table did not consider the signs of ). Table 4 should have foot note to state the statistical methods for testing P value. 9.5 Discussion: Check grammar for writing through the chapter of discussion. 9.6 Conclusion: Check grammar for writing through the chapter of conclusion. 9.7 References: Check format and completeness of the references. 