The topic of the manuscript is extremely important and interesting. The manuscript provided a summary for factors of parenting styles. However, the manuscript did not establish a clear research gap and a clear research purpose. The author(s) did not provide logic rationales for the research. What’s more, there is not a logical introduction to deduce the research questions. In other words, more attention should be paid for the major issues. Therefore, I do not think the manuscript should be indexed. There are some specific comments to the manuscripts, which may help the author(s) to improve the work. There are many models for parenting styles in the literature. Different model may relate with different factors. However, the author(s) did not touch this issue. Or rather, this is not a logical introduction to this paper. Accordingly, this manuscript cannot have a significant contribution in theory or practice. The definition of “parenting styles” in the first sentence is not liberal. And it cannot reflect the main meaning of parenting style in literature. In Introduction section, the concepts and theory are not clear. Authors should clearly describe parenting styles, the factors and models. Meanwhile, the research questions and significance of the study should also be clearly stated. I cannot see a thorough review for “review of parenting style” in literature. This should be the foundation of the current manuscript. In Method section, each subsection is well defined with clear headings, but in “search strategy” section, I find it difficult to understand why the retrieved articles were based on medical subject headings. After results, the author(s) should explain the results and compare the results to those previous review works in the literature, rather than simply repeating the results. The author(s) should also add some sections as contribution and implication section to discuss the contributions of the manuscript in theory at least. The authors should reorganize the paragraphs based on the importance of factors or some other logics. The writing and grammar should be improved, and the manuscript is limited by the lack of clarity in the writing. 