Overall this is a very solid technical note. The methods seem sound, the descriptions are fairly straightforward, and caveats are properly acknowledged. The authors have provided detailed descriptions of what was done (including software tool versions) and made data and code available to reproduce not only the dataset but also all figures in the paper itself. Regarding the experimental design, I think it's great that Gilks et al. chose to perform sequencing on individual flies rather than pooled samples. It takes some extra effort to deal with the small amounts of starting material involved, but the resulting dataset is that much more valuable. It's also nice to see a study looking at CNVs and short variants together. As tools in this space improve and enable greater integration I look forward to seeing more analysis of how the different variant types relate to each other (e.g. looking at which short variants might be amplified or suppressed by CNV events). Request for additional figures I would recommend including diagrams of the hemiclonal experimental design and of the analysis workflows to maximize clarity. In particular, I think it could be made more obvious that the HaplotypeCaller workflow was run using the GVCF pathway for joint analysis. Minor comments I prefer "high-throughput sequencing" to "next generation sequencing" (this technology was "next-gen" ten years ago, now it's just the current standard). On page 3, does "Fine mapping" refer to realignment around indels or equivalent processes? On page 4, I would express "strand bias" as "FisherStrand estimation of strand bias" to avoid ambiguity with other estimators like Strand Odds Ratio, SOR). On page 4, does "null alternate alleles" refer to the GATK convention of emitting "*" to record sites with spanning deletions, as documented here: https://software.broadinstitute.org/gatk/guide/article?id=6926? Typos (Page/paragraph) P2p3 - "detections" - "detects" P2p6 - "off-spring" - "offspring" P3p1 - "were were" - "were" P4p1 - "mis-matches" - "mismatches" P6p2 - "g.vcf" - "GVCF" or "gVCF" 