The manuscript by Salter et al. proposes the analysis of chromatin architecture at the HTT locus as a reliable tool to predict/evaluate HD onset and progression using peripheral blood. The authors used the platform EpiSwitch ™ to analyze chromosome conformations in 20 age-matched blood samples, with ten of them obtained from healthy subjects, seven from symptomatic HD patients and three from asymptomatic HD mutation carriers. The authors analyzed 20 different interactions, identifying nine be informative. Two of these interactions were constitutive (found in the three groups healthy, symptomatic HD and asymptomatic HD samples) and seven of them that were detected in HD samples but not in controls. Interestingly, 3 of these interactions were only found in the symptomatic, but not asymptomatic HD samples. The analysis and status of these interactions are presented by the authors as potential and promising biomarker for the prediction and progression of disease in HD. Major comments: The sample size is very small. A much larger number of samples is necessary to establish any correlation with biomarker potential. I understand that the authors intend to proof the potential applicability of the strategy in HD, but I insist that results, although clean, are not conclusive to base an association between each interaction and disease. Each interaction is not present in all the symptomatic or all the asymptomatic cases either, which makes the conclusion a bit harder to reach. I believe in the strategy presented by the authors and I would love to see reproducibility, validation and stronger significance by the replication of the technique in a bigger sample size. Repeat instability occurs across tissues, with high prevalence in brain, where HD symptoms are more devastating CAG repeats (much) longer that the repeat detected in blood are being expressed. This variability in repeat length across tissues makes more difficult the identification of useful biomarkers. It is essential to increase the size sample in this study to guarantee that the observed changes are indeed associated to disease status. Other comments: I suggest the authors to present the results obtained in each individual sample (not only HD symptomatic cases) as it can be very informative, not only for the acquisition of a given interaction but for the loss or a “putative protective” interaction in presymptomatic that might be indicative of an early change for disease manifestation. The authors indicate that there were no statistical difference in the repeat length between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Given that repeats over 39CAG tracts can cause the disease to manifest and that 1-2 additional repeats can set a different, I believe it will be beneficial to disclose the repeat lengths of each sample. Have the authors checked if the presence of the “biomarker” interactions have an effect on the levels of HTT transcript or HTT protein? It would be interesting to check. 