The authors are claiming that their "Brief Report includes a single-finding that is reported with descriptions of an unexpected observation". However, unfortunately, what they have been claiming as "a single-finding" is not a "finding", but just one of the speculations they made to explain what they thought of as "unexpected results". Actually, it is not even "unexpected" to see proportionally lower infiltration rate after corn residue incorporation in comparison to other crops because 1) the corn residues were harvested and were completely dried before incorporation, whereas the residues of other crops were incorporated right after their growing period, and 2) there were 65 days of fallow period prior to the corn residue incorporation whereas there was no fallow period prior to the residue incorporation of other crops, which will affect the soil physical properties. The authors also claimed that "the key finding of this study is that the effect of aboveground residue quantity, more precisely root mass, was stronger than the incorporated residue". However, this cannot be concluded from their data. First of all, their experimental design was not testing the effect of quantity of the residue nor root mass, but testing the effect of different crop residues (including roots), which are different not only in quantity but also in quality. On top of that, as mentioned above, the corn residue effect on infiltration rate cannot be compared with those of other crop residues because of the concomitant effects (only corn is different regarding the management of residue and fallow period). Finally, if "the soil moisture strongly affects to top-root ratio", and "(the) root mass (effect), was stronger than the incorporated residue", then there should to be a consistent effect of mulch treatment on infiltration rate*. However, it looks like the mulch treatment did not have any consistent effect, and even if it did, it might be just the direct effect of mulch on soil physical characteristics. I also would like to respond to the authors' previous response, that was "It is reasonable that the original purpose or experimental design is not always suitable for clarifying the unexpected results. Because, the results were unexpected". It does not matter what the original purpose was, and what the unexpected results was. When writing a paper, the reasoning of the research purpose in the introduction has to match with the method used. *To test the effect of mulch treatment on infiltration rate, a 3-way ANOVA (2 crops x 3 fertilization levels x 3 mulches with two blocks) is necessary. Depending on how the authors have assigned each treatment plot within each greenhouse, split-plot design, or strip plot design may need to be used to test the effect of each factor.