I think that the paper is very good, and should be published, but there are somethings that must be improved before, as follows: • Abstract The authors should review the conclusions, because they did not observe statistical differences between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups, in both farms, regarding to the viral loads. They just studied 2 variables (humoral response and viral load) and they only found that the humoral response is different depending of the vaccine used. • Methods The authors should explain better the differences that exist between both farms, from the infrastructural, animal’s flow and management point of view. It is lamentable that the authors do not have a replicate of the treatment in each farm, in order to give more power to the results. • Statistical analysis The authors should use a test of repeated samples ANOVA, if the assumptions allow it. • Results The authors should review the tables, because there are some differences in the results that are possible to obtain from the original data and the ones showed in tables (mean and standard deviation) and figures (mean) of the paper. In Figure 1, the authors should use the same scale for the ELISA results of farm A and B. Additionally, they have to indicate if the * indicate statistical differences between vaccinated and unvaccinated animals of farm B or statistical differences between the different weeks of sampling of vaccinated animals of farm B. • Discussion The authors should discuss the phrase “However, at 3 weeks of age the anti-PCV2 IgG levels were higher in piglets from Farm A (VAC-A) than in piglets from Farm B (VAC-B) (p0.05).” that it is in the results, and the implication that the farms were different from the beginning, and how this can influence the results that they obtain. As Figure 1 shows, the authors should give explanations for the serology decay of the vaccinated animals in farm B at the 19 and 23 weeks. Additionally, the authors should discuses why there is an increase, no statistical significance, in 3 of the 4 groups, at weeks 23, of the mean PCV2 DNA load, as show by Figure 1. There is a little of over conclusions, since it states that “In our study, vaccination against PCV2 using two doses in pig- lets results in a higher antibody response than a single dose (p0.05), even though in terms of protection the two options have shown to be effective and control PCV2 viremia ”; the authors cannot affirm this because there were no differences in viral load between control (un vaccinated) and vaccinated group. The authors should indicate what is the meaning of IPM in the clusters 4. The authors should review the sentence “Our findings illustrated that different vaccination schemes against PCV2 can maintain low viral load in endemically infected populations regardless of the different humoral immune profiles observed over time". The authors did not observe statistic differences between the control group and the vaccinated group, so they can not affirm the above sentence. It could have been interesting if the authors had measured the productive parameters of the treatment groups, to see any difference, but with the reduced number of animals (especially the control group) this was not possible. The authors should discus the differences between farms (including the Ig G level at the beginning of the essay), vaccine used, vaccine protocols and epidemiology of PCV2 at the population level and there effect on they results. 