The statistical analysis is appropriate and rigorous. The results are interesting – similar rates of CR for a variety of cancers and drug types. I would like to recommend indexation after a few minor comments have been addressed: It would be interesting and important to include a statement on the rate of Spontaneous Regression (tumour regressing without any treatment). This could simply be extracted from previous publications (no additional analysis needed). This would answer the question: does chemotherapy provide any benefit compared to no treatment at all? It would be interesting to add a sentence on comparing the rates of CR and SR. In the Introduction, a sentence on the molecular mechanisms (such as gene regulation) leading to metastasis would be useful. A relevant citation could be Lee et al. (2014). It would also be interesting to add a sentence on any trends observable over time. If the data are insufficient to make a statement, then the authors should write a sentence stating that. References 1. Lee J, Lee J, Farquhar KS, Yun J, et al.: Network of mutually repressive metastasis regulators can promote cell heterogeneity and metastatic transitions. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2014; 111 (3): E364-73 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Balázsi G. Reviewer Report For: Chemotherapy for Late-Stage Cancer Patients: Meta-Analysis of Complete Response Rates [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :232 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7263.r11333 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-232/v1#referee-response-11333 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 02 Dec 2015 Derek Abbott , University of Adelaide, South Australia, Australia 02 Dec 2015 Author Response The authors respond to Professor Balzsi's suggestions as follows: In clinical terms, spontaneous regression is an exceedingly rare event that an individual clinician might perhaps be lucky enough to observe in ... Continue reading The authors respond to Professor Balzsi's suggestions as follows: In clinical terms, spontaneous regression is an exceedingly rare event that an individual clinician might perhaps be lucky enough to observe in an entire career of clinical practice - many do not. As such, it is therefore far less than the CR rates that we have identified and reported here in this meta-analysis, and the CR rates are most likely to be the effect(s) of treatment. We agree that molecular mechanisms and gene regulation are important aspects in neoplasia and oncogenesis, but these aspects are not precisely central to the subject of our meta-analysis, and so we did not stray into those areas in this paper This is an interesting point, however, since we necessarily confined our studies to the time period from 2000 - 2007, we did not see a trend over that short time. However, the suggestion is a particularly interesting one and potentially relevant over a longer period. This is an open question for future study. The authors respond to Professor Balzsi's suggestions as follows: In clinical terms, spontaneous regression is an exceedingly rare event that an individual clinician might perhaps be lucky enough to observe in an entire career of clinical practice - many do not. As such, it is therefore far less than the CR rates that we have identified and reported here in this meta-analysis, and the CR rates are most likely to be the effect(s) of treatment. We agree that molecular mechanisms and gene regulation are important aspects in neoplasia and oncogenesis, but these aspects are not precisely central to the subject of our meta-analysis, and so we did not stray into those areas in this paper This is an interesting point, however, since we necessarily confined our studies to the time period from 2000 - 2007, we did not see a trend over that short time. However, the suggestion is a particularly interesting one and potentially relevant over a longer period. This is an open question for future study. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 02 Dec 2015 Derek Abbott , University of Adelaide, South Australia, Australia 02 Dec 2015 Author Response The authors respond to Professor Balzsi's suggestions as follows: In clinical terms, spontaneous regression is an exceedingly rare event that an individual clinician might perhaps be lucky enough to observe in ... Continue reading The authors respond to Professor Balzsi's suggestions as follows: In clinical terms, spontaneous regression is an exceedingly rare event that an individual clinician might perhaps be lucky enough to observe in an entire career of clinical practice - many do not. As such, it is therefore far less than the CR rates that we have identified and reported here in this meta-analysis, and the CR rates are most likely to be the effect(s) of treatment. We agree that molecular mechanisms and gene regulation are important aspects in neoplasia and oncogenesis, but these aspects are not precisely central to the subject of our meta-analysis, and so we did not stray into those areas in this paper This is an interesting point, however, since we necessarily confined our studies to the time period from 2000 - 2007, we did not see a trend over that short time. However, the suggestion is a particularly interesting one and potentially relevant over a longer period. This is an open question for future study. The authors respond to Professor Balzsi's suggestions as follows: In clinical terms, spontaneous regression is an exceedingly rare event that an individual clinician might perhaps be lucky enough to observe in an entire career of clinical practice - many do not. As such, it is therefore far less than the CR rates that we have identified and reported here in this meta-analysis, and the CR rates are most likely to be the effect(s) of treatment. We agree that molecular mechanisms and gene regulation are important aspects in neoplasia and oncogenesis, but these aspects are not precisely central to the subject of our meta-analysis, and so we did not stray into those areas in this paper This is an interesting point, however, since we necessarily confined our studies to the time period from 2000 - 2007, we did not see a trend over that short time. However, the suggestion is a particularly interesting one and potentially relevant over a longer period. This is an open question for future study. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Drabick JJ. Reviewer Report For: Chemotherapy for Late-Stage Cancer Patients: Meta-Analysis of Complete Response Rates [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :232 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7263.r9467 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-232/v1#referee-response-9467 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Aug 2015 Joseph J. Drabick , Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey, PA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7263.r9467 This is a fascinating review by Ashdown and colleagues that examines the CR rate to various cytotoxic regimens for various cancers as part of meta-analysis focusing on the attainment of CR. The remarkable concordance of CR rate across cancer and therapy ... Continue reading READ ALL 