The topic is extremely important, the conclusion is very relevant for informing the clinical practice and the timing is perfect. Please see below some comments to improve this excellent systematic review Note that reference 9 is for naive patients, and not for switching. REPRODUCIBILITY: Risk of bias checklist is not available. It could be good idea to include as supplementary material a sample of the checklist of assessment of bias. The number of reviewed studies is 21, but the authors reported 8 for monotherapy and 14 for dual therapy without clarifying that some are focused on both strategies. Similarly, in figure 2, the name of the author is followed by the (n) of participants. This makes the reader think this is the reference. Please consider to add the reference number in this place, and an additional column for "n" Regarding the phrase "These three patients did not have a history of previous VF and had a suppressed HIV viral load for several years before switching to DTG-monotherapy". Please comment if patients experiencing INSTI resistance in monotherapy were previously exposed to INSTI. Please review Table 2, because some INSTI mutations are not in bold, and the $ symbol is not explained in notes In discussion you mention "For instance, no virological failures were noted among patients on DTG/3TC despite the presence of a 184V mutation at the time of simplification in several studies." but you are not showing this result. Given the potential clinical importance of this issue, consider show how many participants had this mutation and show the outcomes. In the discussion, these phrases look similar: First Paragraph: "Although the proportion of patients experiencing a confirmed viral rebound on DTG-monotherapy does not seem to be higher than in patients on PI-monotherapy, the risk of losing future treatment options is higher with DTG-monotherapy" Second Paragraph "Although the proportion of patients experiencing a confirmed viral rebound on DTG-monotherapy does not seem to be higher than in patients on PI-monotherapy, their chances of losing future treatment options is higher than reported in most PI-monotherapy trials" Why to mention DTG-XTC if no study was presented with FTC?. I would suggest to stick to the presented data, therefore to discuss about 3TC. The phrase "In addition to the studies on maintenance therapy 39 , 40 , clinical trials are also assessing the efficacy of DTG/XTC in treatment-nave patients" should be updated based on the results of GEMINI12. It could be good to try to explain the higher rate of failure in those three trials in dual therapy (Blanco, and Navarro). Please check the failure rate in figure 2 for Taiwo (44 patients with failure 2.7%). 