This is an interesting case report, which underlines that the patient's medical history (in this case Crohn’s disease) is of great importance when diagnosing and treating “ordinary” symptoms and complaints (e.g. recurrent urinary infection during pregnancy). General comments: Throughout your manuscript, it is not sufficiently clear which of the complaints and findings that covers the patient’s complaints and which consist of findings of the clinical examination. Please make this clear throughout the manuscript. Introduction: The first sentence in the introduction is unclear and has no reference to either of the statements: “Enterovesical fistulae are uncommon conditions that are most commonly diagnosed based on clinical evidence.” Please revise it. Your reference 1 concerning the incidence and rate of fistulas for Crohn’s patients is a case report, it does not seem plausible that this is the most accurate reference – please consider revising the reference. Please add a verb in the sentence: “One of the mechanisms of the formation of an enterovesical fistula the erosion of an abscess”. You write: “One of the mechanisms of the formation of an enterovesical fistula the erosion of an abscess 3–5 .” Reference 5 is a small case series of 15 patients, consider changing or omitting this reference. Case report: patient information and clinical findings What year was she diagnosed with Crohn’s disease? The time course is a bit hard to follow - when was “the first visit”, please specify. Was abdominal stiffness a symptom reported by the patient or a finding of repeated clinical examinations? The sentences “After pneumaturia and fecaluria appeared, MRI was performed and finally revealed the presence of a retroperitoneal abscess and an ileo-sigmoid-vesical fistula” is not accurate. I agree that pneumaturia is a key symptom and should be reported here. But pneumaturia was reported in February 2012, but she was not diagnosed until June 2012. Please revise the sentence. Case report: Timeline of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions The timeline is a bit hard to follow. Have you considered making a figure along with the description? All the CT scans were they with or without contrast if with contrast was it given i.v., p.o. or rectally? Did any of the CT scans show intravesical air? There are no descriptions of the urine, urinalysis, or analysis of the urine until July 2011. In February and March, there were clinical findings in relation to her right kidney – was there really no information on her urine at these appointments? May 2011: “At first emergency hospital admission, the patient presents with severe abdominal pain, with right lower abdominal stiffness and a C-reactive protein levels showing inflammation of the ileum region leading to the diagnosis of appendicitis.” The sentence should be revised – there are no descriptions of scans that show inflammation of the ileum. In January 2012 the patient had an emergency C-section, was there any information regarding her abdominal cavity in the surgical record? Did the patient only report pneumaturia in February 2012 and not during any of the other visits? How many times did the patient experience recurrent urinary infections, the information is not clear from the timeline? May 2012, “The patient is convinced of having a fistula”, could you please elaborate on how the patient suspected that – and none of the doctors previously? Discussion: You write: “Second, X-ray and CT-scan were not possible during pregnancy,” – please make it clear how a fistula should be diagnosed e.g. CT with oral or rectal contrast, as the timeline and your discussion do not clearly state that. Please add the importance of the symptoms recurrent urinary infection, pneumaturia, and fecaluria in suspecting the diagnose fistulas. References: Reference 1 is not cited correctly. Your reference 7 is missing details. 