The present paper is a fine example of how simple questions can be answered by simple studies. The authors have observed that although a standardized approach is used to treat the spinal caused vasodilation during a cesarean section (CS) some women will still experience hypotension despite prophylactic treatment with phenylephrine. They try to identify subsets of women with different susceptibility to vasodilation by register the hemodynamic response after placing them in a supine position for a few minutes. The hypothesis is that some women may need a more aggressive anti-hypotensive treatment during CS and these women might react more when placed on the back, compressing the inferior caval vein and aorta. The paper is very interesting because it presents new clinical relevant knowledge on a frequent challenge. The paper is well written, most of the time easy to understand, but is also at some points cut to tight, and I feel as a reader, I am missing information, and this stays with me, despite several attempts to understand. Abstract The abstract is maybe to condense, (maybe due to restriction from the publisher)… I have added a few comments to make the text easier to read… "Cesarean delivery is performed under spinal anesthesia, and vasodilation is the main cause for a drop in blood pressure. [During supine position] The compression of the aorta and inferior vena cava by the gravid uterus is of additional clinical importance. [The spinal caused] Hypotension may occur during cesarean delivery even if prophylactic infusion of phenylephrine is practiced. We have tested if a 3 minute supine observation, can identify a subset of women with decreasing systolic arterial pressure (SAP) under spinal anesthesia” Background “The compression of the aorta and inferior vena cava by the gravid uterus is known to reduce venous return and this is estimated to be of clinical importance after approximately 20 weeks of pregnancy. Pregnant women may find the supine position uncomfortable and avoid this position close to delivery. During cesarean delivery left lateral tilt is recommended to oppose this effect, and theoretically this should reduce the negative effects on maternal circulation” Q: Consider moving this paragraph. The paragraphs before and after is about vasodilation – this is not. Methods ”They were asked to assess specifically the extra pain caused by to the arterial cannulation” Q: What does this mean? “The indications for elective cesarean section were maternal request 43%, previous cesarean delivery 25%, breech presentation 8%, other obstetric reasons 13%, and other non-obstetric maternal or neonatal medical conditions 11%.” Q: Why is this important in the present study? “Concomitantly, we started a rapid intravenous infusion of saline 0.9 mg/ml (37C, 10 ml/kg) and a phenylephrine bolus (0.25 g/kg). This was followed with a phenylephrine infusion (0.25 g/kg/min)” and later in the same column: ”Phenylephrine prophylaxis (25 g/kg/min i.v.) was started when spinal anesthesia was given. Due to the phenylephrine prophylaxis we expected only a minor decrease in SAP after induction of spinal anesthesia”. Q: I read this as identical information. And if so – one of the paragraphs should be deleted. “The analyses of spinal induced hypotension were based on the beat-to-beat measurements during the first 5 minutes, guided by inspection of the blood pressure curves. Based on a previously published study we expected a maximum decrease in SAP 3–4 minutes after spinal anesthesia 3 , 7 .” Q: I believe this should be moved to the Discussion. And be part of an explanation regarding why “three minutes” were chosen, over two, four, five or…. This is missing. Statistical analysis: Q: Although it seems to be a thorough explanation, I do not understand the majority. But I was intensively looking for a description of an algorithm, since this is mentioned later in the paper: P6: “The clustering algorithm puts each woman in one of two groups, so to divide them in the best way.W P8: ”The external validity of a classification algorithm based on functional data analysis and clustering, as suggested in this paper,…” P8: “The algorithm should also be evaluated using a non-invasive continuous monitoring device.” Q: What algorithm are the authors referring to? Results I have read and re-read the paper the sections regarding the three clusters. I have a hard time understanding the reasons why this subdivision is necessary and more important clinical relevant. Q: The authors compare the three clusters in supine position and after spinal. But in the present paper I am not presented with data from the supine position. Figure 4. Q: What are T1, T2 and T3, color-explanation is missing. Q: The. Red and black curves in Figure 3b and 4b are identical. Explanation? Q: Figure 4 text: “…T3.1”? Explanation of the colors should be added, please. Discussion ”A statistically significant difference in mean CO was observed between the two groups of women and the group with lowest SAP had a higher CO. The difference in CO was probably of limited clinical significance but indicates that the difference in the compensation of spinal anesthesia induced vasodilatation is the mechanism behind this observation. Women are more dependent on sympathetic tone during pregnancy than in non-pregnant state and the effect of spinal anesthesia is a rapid and prominent vasodilatation, leading to a decrease in blood pressure and increase in CO7,16. All women in this study received standard phenylephrine bolus and infusion, and this prophylaxis was effective as the mean SAP was stable.” Q: Treat the patient not the picture! How were the women doing? Was this clinical relevant? “Principal component analyses have been used for making predictive models. In this. population it would be interesting to identify patients at risk of severe spinal anesthesia induced hypotension and tailor the prophylactic treatment.” Q: I would be interesting if the authors would share some ideas on how prevent hypotension – an anti-hypotensive adjusted prophylactic treatment? Heart rate variability, time domain analysis, and pulse transit time measures are all mentioned in the discussion, and maybe potentially relevant in this clinical setting. Q: However, as a reader, I cannot see the obvious link between these investigations and the three minutes supine position test. I would like to have more information, linking to the right population, and to the results of the present study in the discussion, if this information should be considered. Q: Finally, I would have preferred if the authors have been more strict on answering their Aims (P5) in the discussion. 