We, Liliana Surmacz and Ewa Swiezewska, found the manuscript entitled ‘Effects of polyisoprenoids from Avicennia lanata and Avicennia alba leaves on the gene expression of PI3K, Akt1, mTOR, P53, and EGFR in human colorectal adenocarcinoma WiDr cells using reverse transcription-PCR’ prepared by Dr T. Qurrohman and coworkers not acceptable for publication in the journal F1000Research in its current form. This manuscript describes elucidation of the biological activity of two polyisoprenoid-containing extracts isolated from leaves of two mangrove plant species Avicennia lanata and Avicennia alba . To meet the generally acceptable standard of the manuscript quality this preliminary study requires extremely extensive revision. Firstly, all the biological data were obtained using crude and poorly characterized extracts and consequently all these experiments should be performed once again with highly purified polyisoprenoid mixture (polyisoprenoid content at least 90%). Such purification procedure is doable within a reasonable time period and is not very difficult. Secondly, several methodological issues require clarification, e.g. selection of the drug concentration points, appropriate control experiments (composition of the cell growth media), number of replicates, methods of quantification of PCR results and statistical analysis of the data. Thirdly, interpretation of the obtained results seems not really clear, in particular results of the analysis of the toxicity should be reconsidered (see below). Finally, the Authors should carefully discuss the available literature data to document the novelty of their study. A detailed list of comments follows. This manuscript describes study on the biological effects of the polyisoprenoid-containing extracts isolated from leaves Avicennia lanata and Avicennia alba . All tests were performed for two cell lines, WiDr and Vero. Shown are data on the effect of PAA and PAL on the cytotoxic activity, cell-cycle progression and expression of the selected genes: PI3K, Akt1, mTOR, and EGFR. General comments: All the biological tests described in this study were performed using the crude mixture of lipids obtained after alkaline hydrolysis of the leaf extracts. The Authors did not provide the approximate polyisoprenoid content in the mixtures used. Such complex mixture of natural compounds could be used just for preliminary tests of their potential biological activity. What is more, data presented in this study in fact confirm the weakness of the strategy used – e.g. different effects of pro-apoptocic activity of PAA and PAL on the level of expression of analyzed genes might suggest that this is NOT the effect of polyisoprenoids (very similar profile for both extracts) but rather some other components of these mixtures. In order to present any reasonable conclusion on the biological effect of polyisoprenoids highly purified polyisoprenoid samples (purity higher than 90% based on the HPLC/UV assay) should be used. For this reason the experiments have to be reproduced with purified polyisoprenoid samples. In this context the title of the manuscript does not describe the real content of the work. Data presented in Table 2 suggest that analyzed extracts exert higher toxicity against Vero than WiDr cells. Consequently the Selectivity Index is below 1. It raises the question whether analyzed extracts could be considered as candidates for anticancer drugs since they posses higher cytotoxic activity against normal than cancer cells. Authors should carefully comment on this observation. Keeping in mind that analyzed extracts were not pure these data do not preclude the potential usefulness of polyisoprenoids as drugs although this conclusion cannot be made on the basis of results shown in Table 2. Furthermore, interpretation of the quantitative results of cytoxicity against WiDr cells is questionable – the difference between both IC50 values obtained for PAA and PAL is approx. 6% (Table 2); thus the conclusion presented by Authors seems highly exaggerated. Finally, why are no SD values are presented here? Have these experiments been performed only once? Experiments on the effect of plant extracts on the cell-cycle progression are summarized as follows: ‘The antineoplastic activity of PAL and PAA occur in the S phase of the cell cycle, which involves the possibility of bonding with the DNA through intercalation between the base pairs as well as the inhibition of the DNA and RNA synthesis.’ Such conclusion definitely requires additional data supporting the suggested mechanism(s). Moreover, presented data were not analyzed using statistical method. Fig.2 presents representative data but how many biological replica were performed? How many microscopic snapshots were used for quantitative analysis? Expression of selected genes - Authors should add a general comment on the biological relevance of the transcriptional data in the context of transcript – translated protein – its function in the cell, e.g. is the level of transcript directly related to the level and/or activity of the appropriate protein? What concentartion of PAL or PAA was used to obtain data presented in Fig.3 and Table 4? Since Fig.3 and Table 4 present data for just one concentration point thus the statement is not justified: ‘The results of the present study show that PAL and PAA significantly increase the gene expression of P53 at high concentrations, and the increase in P53 gene expression is concentration dependent; the higher the concentration, the higher the level of gene expression.’ Furthermore, how quantification of the PCR product, i.e. bands intensity was performed? What software was used for this analysis? Why no reference gene was used as a control for reaction efficiency? How many RT-PCR repetitions were used for quantitative analysis? The term ‘Gene expression density’ should be replaced with ‘Gene expression level’ or ‘Transcript expression level’ Finally, a general comment concerning the RT-PCR technique - currently a qPCR method is considered an acceptable standard for trnascriptomic analysis. It is recommended by these reviewers to repeat analyses using this approach. In the Introduction the rationale behind the choice of the particular genes to be analyzed (PI3K, Akt1, mTOR, P53, and EGFR) has to be presented together with a brief (one sentence) description of their function in the cancer cell. Additionally, rewrite the sentence and explain the meaning of the expression ‘and differentiate between the level of individual plasmid expression in multivalent pDNA’. How this expression is relevant to the method used in this study? Methodology requires clarification: Delete the description of the cleaning of the leaves from ‘The simplicia procedure …’ to ‘…stored in tightly closed plastic containers.’ Instead, describe the date of the collection of the leaves, for how long the plant material was stored prior to extraction, the temperature of the extraction procedure. What is meant in the sentence: ‘The portions were further saponified and ……..’ All the ester have already been saponified upon KOH treatment. Was a crude unsaponifiable lipid fraction used for further tests? It has to be clearly mentioned in the text. If so what was the approximate polyisoprenoid content in this fraction? Data obtained in the biological test are not fully justified keeping in mind the complexity of the lipid fraction used. A type of the TLC plates should be mentioned in the text, moreover what is the meaning of the expression: ‘… were confirmed to belong to the dolichol family 100%...’. What type of cell line are Vero cells? Which organ is it derived from? Is it an immortalized cell line? Concentration of 5-Fu used in this study – please provide literature data on the concentration of 5-FU used. Were the values used in this study within the range of those used in similar type of assays? The method of administration of the leaf extracts to the cells is not described at all. Polyisoprenoids are not soluble in water so what type of solvent was used to prepare PAA and PAL solutions for all biological tests? And how the control cells were treated – there is no information, neither in the Methods nor in the Figure legends, on the supplementation of the growth media of the control cell cultures with the appropriate amount of the same solvent. For how long the cells were exposed to PAL in the cell cycle analysis? What concentrations of PAL and PAA were used? The description of the apoptosis analysis is unclear and requires rewriting. What type of software was used to count green and red fluorescence signals? The amount of total RNA used in this study in the reverse transcription reaction (according to the manuscript 3 mg in the 20 l reaction mixture) seems unrealistic. Manufacturer's protocols usually recommend to use ≤1 g RNA. Please correct. The novelty of the data presented in this study has to be indicated by Authors in the section Discussion or Conclusions – novel data presented in the current manuscript in comparison to the previous already published ones should be clearly depicted. The manuscript requires an English language edit. Some sentences are misleading, some are just awkward, e.g. ‘Cytotoxic activity against WiDr cells showed that the IC50 for A. alba and A. lanata was 258.14 ug/mL and 243.32 ug/mL, respectively. This indicated that their classification as anticancer agents was moderate.’ ‘Natural ingredients developed as potential chemotherapeutic agents include mangrove leaves.’ should rather read as follows: ‘Natural substances developed as potential chemotherapeutic agents include components of mangrove leaves.’ ‘This extract has a mechanism for inhibiting the cell cycle at the G0-G1 phase…’ ‘In this study, the test material is cytotoxic for the polyisoprenoids of leaves derived from…’ The word ‘simplicia’ is used in the text several times– please replace with any typical expression. Minor remarks: Title – ‘using reverse transcription-PCR’ - in my opinion these last four words are not necessary and should be deleted; it is nothing special in this RT-PCR technique. p.1 – ‘Mangrove plants produce a polyisoprenoid compound. Polyisoprenoids have been proven to have anticancer properties.’ – these two sentences have to be rewritten. As it is now they do not provide enough information about the subject of study. Moreover, why the term ‘polyisoprenoid compound’ is used here in a singular form? It is not consistent either with the natural composition of the leaf extract or with the text below. p.1 – delete ‘inhibited’ in the sentence ‘The inhibited cell cycle and apoptosis...’. p.3 – rewrite the second sentence of Introduction – what is meant by the expression ‘halt its invasion and metastasis’ in the context of this sentence? p.3 – replace ‘…dolichol and polyprenol on the leaves…’ with ‘…dolichol and polyprenol in the leaves…’. p.3 – ‘MCF-7 and T47D’ – a brief description of the cell line type is missing. p.3 – ‘gene expression of COX-2 in colon cancer cells’ spell out the name of the enzyme when first used here and throughout the entire manuscript. p.3 – delete the word ‘Every’ in the sentence ‘Every 500 g of powdered simplicia mangrove leaves…’. Explain the word ‘simplicia’ in the text or delete. p.3 – ‘The cell wall debris insouble in CM21…’ – how about other cellular components, e.g. proteins? – replace ‘cell wall debris’ with ‘Precipitate’. p.3 – delete the description of the cleaning of the leaves from ‘The simplicia procedure …’ to ‘…stored in tightly closed plastic containers.’ Instead, describe the date of the collection of the leaves, for how long the plant material was stored prior to extraction, the temperature of the extraction procedure. 