This is a nicely written paper with lots of great data. However, the paper can be improved upon by providing information on statistical weighting. The description of how weighting of data from what appears to be convenience samples done in different countries is inadequate. In order to generate samples that are weighted so as to reflect the country specific estimates that are provided requires having some country specific source data for each of the 13 countries for which there are survey estimates presented. The question is what source data were used for each country and how closely do the characteristics of the samples from each country match the gold standard source dataset used to generate sampling weights? The authors may have a technical report that investigates this issue and can provide the evidence needed so that readers can feel confident in the country specific estimates provided. However, the paper seems to lack this information, which is critical. I was concerned that the investigators did not seek human subjects review for their surveys. I agree the surveys are low risk. However, I think this is something that the investigators ought to address in subsequent survey work that they might undertake. Many journals will not accept such findings without such certification. It was unclear from the methods write up if subjects were compensated for their time taking the survey which is normally done. Was that the case in the survey described and how did compensation differ between countries? Country names should either be spelled out or abbreviations, if used described at least one time in the text (i.e., FR=France, BR=Brazil, etc. - see table 1). The paper should include definitions of products as it is likely that in Indian bidis are being referred to as cigarettes. Also, India is a big country, what regions of the country were surveyed, and how does region impact product use (i.e., higher in some places for smokeless vs bidis). How is perceived addiction correlated with regular daily use? In Table 3 it appears that those from poor countries are more likely to report using tobacco instead of food. That should be stated. In Table 4, add the questions on have tried to quit once with have tried to quit more than once to create an overall percentage who have reported having tried to quit. On page 10, the statement that RYO tobacco yields higher tar levels compared to boxed tobacco is untrue and misleading. RYO tobacco is most often commercial tobacco packaged for rolling. RYO tobacco packaged in this way typically has more additives (usually for moisture). Tar and nicotine content is mostly determined by the amount rolled which is highly variable. The one reference cited is old, out of date, and perhaps correct for New Zealand at the time, but not generally true world wide. The industry loves to say RYO tobacco is worse than boxed tobacco and that is simply false. Also on page 10, RYO is widely used form of tobacco in many countries - this should be reported. The comment on page 12 assumes health professional advice would be expected to be the same across countries. That is simply not realistic. Thus such comparisons are misleading (See paper by Borland et al, One size does not fit all when it comes to smoking cessation: observations from the International Tobacco Control (ITC) Policy Evaluation Project) 1 . Table 5 is unreadable. On page 17, modelling of ENDS effects on health are only really focused on the US and other high income countries. It is unlikely that ENDS would have much impact in countries with very low smoking rates. Also the term ENDS is out of date and ought to be replaced with a broader term - nicotine vaping products (NVPs). The data from the study ought to be made publicly available. While lots of interesting descriptive data are provide, the paper loses its value since the authors have not focused the presentation on any themes. I would advise reformatting the paper, and use a fewer number of tables to communicate a few key themes. Additional materials can be placed in supplemental tables/figures. I would also encourage the authors to use figures where possible since this would be easier for readers to follow. 