The authors report on a rapid approach to provide the start-up across 4 countries in the Eastern and Southern Caribbean to begin work to improve detection of and care for children affected by Zika virus. The work is embedded in the ASSIST project, which brings deep experience in establishing quality improvement work across a range of settings, expertise which is clearly reflected in the development of this rapid approach (RMPP-MAPS) to provide short term TA reflective of the timeline of overall funding. The report is important in providing some important strategies for how to rapidly implement the key steps and operations needed to move rapidly, although this is relative to usual times for non-emergency interventions which would require even more rapid work (about 4 months). The strengths of the work include using an external evaluator, and the range of KIIs used. However the report could be significantly strengthened in a number of areas which need clarification. Methods: What, if any, frameworks were used for the qualitative coding (and KII guide development)? How were contextual factors captured and compared across the countries for similarities and differences which may have influenced implementation success of the start-up? This is described in a few areas (nurses coming from the Grenadines, coaches from existing resources versus retired nurses for example), but would be very helpful for others to be described and any association with variability of RMPP-MAPS implementation. In addition, how did ASSIST decide who to suggest for KIIs? Was there any chance of bias (should include in your limitations-which also typically go into discussion sections). Results and Discussion The scope of the evaluation is a bit confusing if this is just about start-up (as described in the results and abstract) or overall program implementation, which is described in the discussion. The authors should include information on how this approach was successful in rapid start and the outcomes of the STTA, or modify the language about the definitions of success. For example, in the conclusions, I do not see the relevance of the decades from research to implementation, as this was more about implementing and strengthening established EBIs? Also some data on if the EBIs were indeed implemented would strengthen the paper. Particularly given the sentence in the preceding paragraph that the broad engagement of stakeholders resulted in “promoting early institutionalization and long-term sustainability”. For the knowledge to be more transferable, more details of how in addition to what was done would be helpful particularly in getting leadership ownership, developing a culture for change and other areas to which ASSIST brought expertise. How did this expertise influence the success and what would another organization need to have (or not need to have) to be able to adopt the RMPP-MAPS. For example, highlighting that this was done without country offices is important for replication. What else? What partners should they choose? The focus on engaging a broad range of stakeholders is admirable and important. A bit more detail in how the stakeholders were identified and if the calls involving stakeholders were with all of them or more specific groups (page 11). The approach is described as "resource-efficient”, but no data on cost is included. That would be important as this is indeed an important factors on which TA is not always evaluated. Finally, the report meets many of the Consolidated criteria for reporting qualitative research (COREQ) and with a small effort would help strengthen the paper. Minor: Page 8; The authors write the approach was based on the ASSIST “model for improvement” and “adaptive management”. This needs a reference. Typo: Experience top of page 10 should be experienced. 