In this study, the authors introduced a new method named Clinotator to help researchers easily find the discrepancies on categorizations of clinical impacts among different submitters or curators. Besides providing re-classification prioritization scores, this study also provided new metrics (CTRS, CTAA, CTPS, and CTRR) for the interpretation ClinVar variants, which will be helpful for users of ClinVar data. Some additional improvements on description of the methods and interpretation of results can be made as described below. Major: A brief description about the selection of the values for the assertion weight factor can be added to the methods. Although there is a discussion about this in the discussion part, it is not present in the Methods itself. Based on Figure 2A, it is still unclear how the CTRR (Clinotator reclassification recommendations) system works. The legend says “scoring workflow”, but this is not really a workflow figure. Maybe a flowchart with a simple example will help (for example, to show how moving from Uncertain Significance (US) to Benign/Likely benign (BLB) scores works for a particular variant based on a specific reason). For the definition of CTRR in page 4, is it suitable to define both the cases with “insufficient information” and “consistent identity” to be 0? It seems that the cases with “insufficient information” have a good chance to be re-classified in the future when more information is available. In the discussion part, the authors mentioned that Clinotator might classify the variant with five LP assertions as P status, and this issue was further explained by the authors through the fact that those LP assertions do provide additive values for overall pathogenicity. However, in the further discussion, the authors mentioned that “One of the key benefits of the current ACMG/AMP criteria is that any assertion must review all previous evidence and existing data available”, which means that the latest assertions were dependent on the previous ones. Will this affect the additive assumption? Maybe a discussion about this can help. rsID does not uniquely identify a variant. It is merely a locus identifier telling people an approximate genomic location. In general it is a bad idea to use rsID to denote a variant, especially since many variants can be at the exactly same locus (3 different SNPs, and many different indels can all be located at exactly the same genomic position and be represented by exactly the same rsID). ClinVar does assign its own ID, and it is a better idea to just use ClinVar’s own ID system when describing variants. One important discussion point is the use of phenotype information in the clinical interpretation of genetic variants. It can be incorporated in ACMG guidelines, but here for ClinVar, there is no phenotype information associated with a variant ID, so a pathogenic variant for one phenotype could simply be benign for another phenotype. It is something that needs to be discussed. Minor: The word “Benign ( B )” is in bold font in both of Figure 1 and Figure 2 legend. This is very confusing, because there is also an explanation of the panel (A), (B), etc. Too many abbreviations were used in the manuscript. It would be ideal to make a list to explain each of them? For example, in Table 3, there is no further explanation for VID, clinsig, even though there are explanations for other abbreviations. Both “rsID” and “RSID” are used in the manuscript, a more consistent naming scheme is needed. How is the “age of assertion factor” defined? Is it the current date (i.e. the date of preparing the manuscript, Feb 2018) minus the date of assertion? Maybe a clear description about this will help readers get a better understanding. In Table 3, it is better to use “Ambry Genetics” rather than “Ambry” In the “Data and software availability” part, should the Clinotator source code be https://github.com/rbutleriii/Clinotator rather than “ https://github.com/rbuteriii/clinotator ”? 