The topic of the article is the use of meditation as intervention for the health and wellness promotion of healthcare professionals of operating room. Stress levels observed among physicians emphasize the need for strategies aiming to improve wellness. Meditation practice is getting recognized for its ability to improve wellness among various populations, including healthcare providers. Before the intervention the researchers provide a first measurement of stress of healthcare professionals of operating room. An in-person meditation workshop was demonstrated during surgical grand rounds and an international anesthesia conference using a 15-minute guided Isha Kriya meditation. The participants were then surveyed for mood changes before and after meditation using a Profile of Mood States questionnaire. The results of the pre-post measurements showed an improvement of mood changes and negative emotions. The study is interesting and well conducted. The reviewer suggests some integrations and corrections described in the following comments. In the abstract the Perceived Stress Scores of nurses presented a different value from that reported in the result section (14 instead of 13.5). In the abstract and all the manuscript change P0.0001 with p0.001 without spaces and P with p. In the abstract sections and methods briefly describe the hospital where the study was conducted. In the second line of results, the total number of participants in the three categories is 313 and not 362 (101 anesthesiologists, 61 surgeons and 151 nurses). Re-calculate the percentage by category and the resulting values of the other variables. In the discussion on page 7 at the beginning of the first column, the authors should briefly compare their findings with some recently published studies on the use of mindfulness in healthcare professionals. Prez-Fuentes MDC, Gzquez Linares JJ, Molero Jurado MDM et al. The mediating role of cognitive and affective empathy in the relationship of mindfulness with engagement in nursing (2020) 1 La Torre G, Raffone A, Peruzzo M et al. Yoga and Mindfulness as a Tool for Influencing Affectivity, Anxiety, Mental Health, and Stress among Healthcare Workers: Results of a Single-Arm Clinical Trial (2020) 2 Ducar DM, Penberthy JK, Schorling JB et al. Mindfulness for healthcare providers fosters professional quality of life and mindful attention among emergency medical technicians (2020) 3 Klein A, Taieb O, Xavier S, Baubet T, Reyre A. The benefits of mindfulness-based interventions on burnout among health professionals: A systematic review. (2020) 4 