ALS is a devastating disease of uncertain etiology and no effective therapies are available. As a result, there is a temptation to speculate about underlying causes in the hopes of hitting on the right answer. In this case, the author without any record of studying either ALS pathology or ammonia metabolism has proposed a novel integrative explanation in which impaired glycolytic metabolism in fast twitch skeletal muscle and liver pathology leads to chronically elevated ammonia levels that leads to altered Ca 2+ binding protein homeostasis due to ER stress and impaired mitochondrial respiration. Based on this idea, the author proposes that ammonia removal therapies would be effective treatments for ALS. The first requirement of any disease model is that it be consistent with known facts about the disease. Unfortunately, this model fails immediately on two counts. First, there is no evidence that interorgan ammonia levels are chronically elevated in ALS. People have been looking for plasma biomarkers for early diagnosis and none have reported elevated ammonia as a candidate in either ALS patients or animal models. The author does not cite any relevant patient studies and the one animal model cited (Bame, et al. 2014) does not find a significant correlation between ammonia levels and SOD1 G93A pathology. Similarly, liver pathology is not a hallmark of the disease. While skeletal muscle wasting is seen, this is associated with lack of activity, rather than a primary defect in glycolysis. Second, ammonia toxicity is a well-documented condition in the brain and other tissues. While there are neurotoxic effects that include cortical atrophy, demyelination and edema (see for example Braissant, et al. 2013), none of these changes are specific to motor neurons (upper or lower) nor is there any evidence of ALS-like pathology in either patients with hyperammonemia or animal models with chronically elevated ammonia. Thus, patients with ALS show no evidence of elevated ammonia levels and patients with hyperammonemia do not have ALS-like symptoms. Curiously, both the Bame and the Braissant references are listed in the bibliography, but the conclusions are misrepresented as being consistent with the thesis. Although the manuscript uses many buzzwords currently popular in the neurodegeneration field (autophagy, ER-stress, Ca 2+ homeostasis, neuroinflammation, etc.), the logic that relates changes in these parameters to ammonia metabolism is never made clear. The diagrams are convoluted and have little explanatory power. In particular, Figure 2 manages to be so densely packed with symbols and labels that it is uninterpretable. In contrast, the source figure from Kiernan, et al. 2011 that was adapted is sparse and focused. In sum, while the author has gathered a substantial bibliography, the main hypothesis is falsified by the literature and the utility of this opinion piece is therefore minimal. I would not consider this suitable for indexing in a rigorous journal.