In this review, the author suggests a novel NMD classification system based on the evolutionary conservation of known NMD factors among different species. The author also discusses a possible driving force for the apparition of NMD. This is a well-written and structured manuscript considering NMD under an interesting evolutionary point of view. It is of broad interest for the NMD community, and it mentions several fundamental questions currently unanswered in the NMD field. Nevertheless, a few modifications of the figures and the addition of some very important references and concepts could make it easier to read and broaden the general interest of the review, as detailed in the following paragraphs. Major comments: In Figure 1, the model of mammalian NMD indicates cleavage of the NMD target downstream of the PTC. It doesn’t indicate the distinct roles of SMG6 and SMG5/7; it would be important here to indicate the distinct involvement of SMG6 in the cleavage activity and the role of SMG5/7 in decay factors recruitment. These two routes for decay should clearly appear in Figure 1. In Figure 2, the definition of Type 1/2/3/4 NMD should already be mentioned in the figure legends (e.g. Type 1: classical SMG1 dependent NMD, Type 2: recent loss of SMG1 with conserved phosphorylation, Type 3: ancient loss of SMG1 with loss of UPF1 S/Q phosphorylation, Type 4: Heavily derived NMD). In the paragraph 'Defining NMD targets' , the author cites the 2016 paper on the NMD protection effect of PTB1; an earlier study describing similar protection effect of Pub1 in yeast should also be cited (Ruiz-Echevarria and Peltz, 2000 1 ). In the same paragraph, the author focuses on Baker’s yeast DSE, stimulating NMD. The author should also mention a recent paper in yeast describing that poor translation efficiency is a major criteria for NMD targeting (Celik et al., 2017 2 ). This major result could potentially explain not yet understood deregulations observed in several other species upon NMD knockdown. It was proposed that invading RNAs of external origin, including TEs and viruses, could be a driving force for NMD apparition and evolution - this should be mentioned in the paragraph on the possible origin of NMD (Hamid and Makeyev, 2016 3 ). Minor comments: UPF1 might have other essential functions beyond NMD, as observed for UPF3b in mammals, involved in translation termination (Neu-Yilik et al., 2017 4 ), which could explain its presence in some species without any other known NMD factors. This could be mentioned in the corresponding section. As branches of NMD exist without the need of UFP2/UPF3, it suggests that NMD could be active with only UPF1. This possibility should be discussed/mentioned when describing Type 4 species depleted of UPF2 and UPF3. In addition to ATR/ATM, the author could mention TOR or TRRAP kinases as described in (Lloyd and Davies, 2013 5 ), as possible kinase replacements for SMG1. In Figure 3, the author should add precisions on endonucleolytic cleavage and decay factor recruitment for (A) , and decay factor recruitment only for the others. The different types of NMD defined in Figure 2 should be mentioned again here in Figure 3, namely: Type 1, Type 2, Type 3 and Type 4. 