The manuscript is of partial interest, the study is too preliminary and poor and should not be considered for indexing in this journal. Comments: Abstract: Results are not actually summarized. Conclusions can be altered for the reflection of all content of the article. The presented conclusions are incomprehensible. A voucher specimen must be deposited in a recognized herbarium (collection) in case of plants, or otherwise an appropriate chemical fingerprint is required for future reference. There are no proper negative controls. Particularly sterile distilled water and ethanol should be used as negative controls at the concentrations they present in the final test solution. Taking into account that ethanol has antiseptic properties how the authors can distinguish detected antimicrobial activity as result of ethanol or tested phytochemicals action. In figure 1 there are six columns regarding the inhibition zones of positive control chloramphenicol differing each other against the same bacterial strains. This is not clear: why? Most good journals do not accept agar diffusion studies to determine the antimicrobial activity of plants. Many factors influence the agar diffusion assay for plant extracts and results between different laboratories cannot be compared. Agar diffusion assays may work well for single chemical compounds but not for plant extracts containing compounds with different polarities. Non-polar compounds do not diffuse well into the aqueous agar matrix and this underestimates activity. MIC using serial dilution delivers reproducible results to compare results in different laboratories and only extracts with MICs less than 0.1 mg/ml are considered, as interesting ones. Using crude extracts of plant materials with concentrations above 1000 μg/ml in antimicrobial screening protocols should be avoided, because using high concentrations of plant crude extracts can bring to false positive results (Rios and Recio, 2005). During the current study authors used 400 mg/ml concertation of the extracts in antimicrobial tests, which is too high. The concentrations of positive controls are also too high (5 mg/ml) In the article, it is stated that bacterial test strains ( Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC27856) and Proteus mirabilis (ATCC21784)) were isolated from immune-compromised patients of the University Health Centre and available in Microbial Bank of the Microbiology Laboratory, Landmark University. But the ATCC reference numbers were given to them. Are they available in ATCC's microorganism collection? The discussion must be completely rearranged. Language is poor. 