Summary: This is a computational study devoted to investigate the hypothesis that epigenetic mechanisms dysregulate transcription at genome-wide scale in Huntington's disease (HD). The authors designed their experiments to evaluate two regulatory mechanisms: 1) change of the chromatin state, and 2) CpG island methylation. By means of statistical analysis of experimental data they evaluated the association of dysregulated genes in HD with these two processes, and they provided results and a literature-based semantic analysis for functional interpretation. Furthermore, by application of a semantic analysis they provided a list of prioritized proteins based on their newly predicted association with HTT and epigenetics. Lastly, they evaluated their semantic analysis for gene prioritization. The main conlusions are that their findings do not support the hypothesis of a massive transcriptional dysregulation in HD is linked to large-scale relocation of gene activity, thus the authors speculate that epigenetic effects might be more closely related to dysregulation of individual genes. Finally, the authors claim that their methodology for hypothesis generation can be of great value for the scientific community as it helps in narrowing down the key associations and the evidence underlying them. Reviewer notes: This is an interesting work on the possible epigenetic mechanisms that contribute to transcription dysregulation in Huntington Disease (HD). It is very well written in a clear and accurate manner. They based their hypothesis on a very cited current literature. I have only detected one typo in the whole manuscript: limma vs LIMMA, the authors should be consistent in the format. Introduction: I would like to highlight that this study is the first time that is done, so is novel and relevant. Good literature citation. Methods: The experiments are properly designed and the methods used are well established and based on state-of-the-art approaches. All is very FAIR: data, workflows and webservices used. The study is based on public and open resources (data and software). The methodology is well described but i still missed some information: lack of the statement about the R version, and lack of the specific parameters used in the statistical analyses that other scientists would need to replicate the experiments. Why the authors chose these statistical tests? Regarding CPA- co-occurrence can come from refuting evidence of association, is this taken into account in the concept profile? if does, it is that reflected in the evidence graph downweighting some edges? state the version of CPA database of relations used. Design: They tested two regulatory mechanisms: 1) via changes in the chromatin state, 2) via methylation in CpG island content. Both using the promotor gene region to 1) overlap with the chromatin state, 2) to overlap with the CpG content of deregulated genes. They assessed the association via KS statistic test, why this test? As the authors said, there are more regulatory regions in the DNA that could be target of epigenetic regulation, could a cumulative dysregulation in all these regions derive to a large-scale? Results: All the resulted data is available for reproducibility check. Highlight they reproduce previous published results. I am wondering if they had issues accessing, pre-processing the data to adapt it for their analysis workflows. An explanation of these issues and if their workflows help the community on this regard facilitating to overcome these issues in a systematic, reproducible and traceable manner would be of importance. Importantly, their analyses integrate experimental data and knowledge and evidence from the literature. Regarding the text mined noisy/literature-biased knowledge that may come from their CPA approach, inclusion of ontologies could be benefitial by leveraging the intrinsic knowledge using automated logical reasoning. Have the authors any plans on this regard? Discussion: I agree with the authors that the combination of experimental data analyses with Literature-based functional interpretation of the results (CPA) is relevant and add value to the results. In the second paragraph, can the authors suggest next steps to try to explain the unexpected results? Conclusions: The conclusions are supported by their results. In the conclusions section I missed the conclusion about the title of the paper is investigating, which is the plausibility of a genome-wide scale epigenetic dysregulation of transcription in HD although are stated in the abstract and discussion. I would emphasize the relevance of their approach performing synergystic research work between computational and wet lab researchers. This interdisciplinary research approach seems to me the way to go in an innovative and efficient big data driven research. 