The authors present a machine learning approach for detecting malaria drug-resistance based on genetic attributes. To this end, they train many different models, which they combine with known ensemble methods like voting. The detection of malaria drug resistance is an important medical problem and the application of machine learning in this context deserves further exploration. However, the paper has several shortcomings that the authors need to address: The author should provide a better description of the state-of-the-art and existing literature at the beginning of their paper. Also demonstrate the need for such an approach. It is implicitly suggested, but greater clarity is needed on what gaps this approach fills. This can be addressed through previous bullet also. The overall structure of the paper lacks clarity and concrete results. The authors claim that their exercise helps to “quantify the importance of genetic features, spotlighting potential genes that are significant in artemisinin resistance. The utility of these models will help in directing development of alternative treatment or coordination of combination therapies in resistant infections.” However, the experimental validation of these statements is insufficient, and the derived feature importance need to be discussed in more detail to convince the reader. In this context, Figure 6 need to be explained and discussed. What is the black block mimic model? Why has it been chosen by the authors for ranking features? In what way do other feature ranking schemes like PCA differ? The paper describes two experiments: a regression experiment with the IC50 value as target, and a classification experiment with three different parasite clearance rates. However, both experiments need further justification. In the first experiment, the number of rows (patterns) seems to be very small compared to the number of features (genetic attributes), which makes over-training very likely. The authors need to comment on this and address the issue if possible. In the second experiment, it is unclear how the three different clearance rates relate to drug-resistance. What is the correlation between these classes and drug-resistance? Why have the authors trained many more models for the first experiment? Listing of source code for formatting data is unnecessary and not suitable for a research paper. They have provided links to their code so including it in the paper seems superfluous, unless they want to make a point about it, which is absent. Further, that their example output after vectorization contains NaNs does not inspire confidence in the quality of the code; and, obviously needs further discussion. The authors also cite that an earlier version of this article is available on bioRxiv. They should include discussion on what improvements are in this work that substantially improve over that. 