Hanson Ballantyne report in this article a novel use for High Resolution Melt analysis of RNA samples in order to identify single or mixed human body fluids (and tissues), namely vaginal secretions, skin, blood, menstrual blood, saliva, or semen using a series of molecular biomarkers: IL19, IL1F7 or CCL27, ALAS2, MMP10, HTN3, and TGM4, respectively. Identification of these body fluids/tissues can be of crucial importance in forensic sciences and criminal cases. The methodology appears to be quite specific and versatile, and according to the authors, less expensive and time-consuming compared to similar mRNA-based platforms such as quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction or capillary electrophoresis. Remarkably, the technique can allow the identification of up to 6 body fluids in one single reaction (i.e., hexaplex assay). The paper is very well written, scientifically sound and their results are very clear and adequately interpreted and discussed. I support its approval in the journal F1000 Research. I also have several comments to be eventually addressed: Would there be a way to differentiate between blood and menstrual blood samples? Would that be something important to achieve? Have the authors used (or planned to use) this technique with samples such as sweat, urine, or hair? Additionally, could the technique differentiate human from animal samples (using the same biomarkers)? Can the authors give a little bit more information about the size of the amplicons generated by PCR for the different biomarkers employed and also about the design of the primers employed? How reproducible is the assay for one sample coming from an individual? We noticed that when you compare tables 2 and 4, there is a significant improvement of the specificity using the IL19 marker in the hexaplex assay. As mentioned by the authors, they have used a different reverse primer for IL19 in the hexaplex assay. We wonder whether this new reverse primer can also improve the specificity for IL19 to differentiate vaginal secretions from menstrual blood also in single, duplex, or triplex analyses. Regarding the possible amplification of MMP3 by MMP10 primers in the menstrual blood samples under certain experimental conditions. I think it could be important to test that this is indeed the case; maybe by designing MMP3 specific primers that confirm this particular peak or eventually sequencing the products that were generated. Finally, I got the impression from the experiments in which the authors mixed blood with decreasing amounts of semen that the technique does not necessarily reflect quantitative trends. Is that indeed the case? Could quantitation be ultimately important in a forensic case? 