This article presents an interesting in silico observation to possibly explain observed differences in pathogenesis and suppression of host immune antiviral type 1 interferon (INF) responses emanating from structural differences in VP24 proteins of various Ebola virus (EBOV) species and Marburg virus. For context, host antiviral INF signaling is known to induce nuclear transport of tyrosine-phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) as an early stage in a signaling cascade that activates expression of host genes involved in antiviral mechanisms. A subset of the host Karyopherin alpha (KPNA) family are involved in the nuclear transport of activated STAT1, and EBOV VP24 protein has been shown by others (Xu et al. , 2014) to bind KPNA thus interfering with this nuclear transport and the progression of host innate and adaptive immune responses to EBOV infection. Marburg virus is noted to interfere with host antiviral INF responses differently via direct inhibition of phosphorylation/activation of STAT1 and STAT2. In this article, in addition to gross charge and structural differences in two alpha helices (a5 and a6) of VP24 between EBOV and Marburg viruses, possibly explaining the different mechanisms of INF response suppression, the authors hypothesis that a single substitution R140S in VP24 between the pathogenic Zaire ebolavirus (ZEBOV) and non-pathogenic Reston ebolavirus (REBOV) alters charged properties of the a5 alpha helix leading to a lack of binding to human KPNA by REBOV VP24. This substitution in REBOV VP24 is hypothesized to be responsible for the lack of REBOV pathogenesis in humans. The authors further express concern regarding the potential for a single amino acid substitution in REBOV, previously observed in domestic swine, to perhaps lead to a more pathogenic virus in the future. Article Content: The study employs computational modeling of the primary VP24 amino acid sequences of different EBOV species and Marburg virus onto the previously resolved crystal structure of ZEBOV VP24 bound to KPNA5 (Xu et al. , 2014). The direct comparisons between potential binding sites of KPNA and VP24 from different species of EBOV are intriguing but the study unfortunately lacks experimental verification either through in vitro binding or functional studies In addition there are concerns regarding the accuracy of theoretical modeling of primary VP24 sequences from various EBOV species to the known crystal structure of ZEBOV VP24 and KPNA5 peptides. Without experimental verification it is not possible to draw the conclusion that the R140S substitution present in REBOV affects binding to KPNA or that it is responsible for the absence of pathogenicity in humans. One approach not tried is modeling of a KPNA5 homolog from non-human primates as REBOV is known to still be pathogenic in non-human primates. In concept, it seems unlikely that a single mutation could be wholly responsible for the observed differences in pathogenicity between REBOV and other EBOV species. Various mechanisms not involving VP24 including EBOV glycoprotein and VP35-mediated mechanisms of immune suppression as well as a potential host genetic differences are likely to have critical influences on EBOV pathogenesis beyond the specific mechanism of VP24-mediated suppression of activated STAT1 nuclear localization and expression of INF triggered host antiviral mechanisms. Of minor importance, invasion should be replaced with pathogenesis in the first sentence of the abstract and minor typographical errors should be corrected.