In the manuscript by Howlett et al. the authors report on their findings and thoughts on two main topics: (i) attempts to identify the endogenous antigen protein(s) which is (are) decorated by a polyclonal antibody (pAb), named G530, and through which are visualized e.g. certain blood vessel structures in tissues from different origin by IHC, and (ii) investigations targeted on defining the dominating epitope structure, starting with the amino acid sequence “MKPLTGKVKEFNNI”, named EPL001, which was taken to raise G530 and for which IHC is used as readout. The authors' research subjects are of high interest for the scientific community and stand in context with developing and applying state-of-the-art methods for elucidating antibody epitopes which is a necessity to understand scope and limitations of the applicability of antibodies as sophisticated research tools, as diagnostic tools, and so on. The authors' work underlying hypothesis seems to be: “Once the antibody’s target structure (which in effect is the antigen’s epitope structure) has been identified, the “endogenous” antigen(s) is (are) identified as well”. While this hypothesis seems logical and following it straight forward for successful antigen identification, the authors face the problem that the amino acid sequence stretch “MKPLTGKVKEFNNI” - which previously had been derived from Edman sequencing - cannot be matched to any known protein sequence of any of the species whose tissues had been investigated by IHC. Unfortunately, neither in this nor in the authors’ previous manuscript on the subject was the Edman sequencing result confirmed (see ref. 1 of Howlett et al. 1 ). Instead the authors admit indirectly that a rather poorly defined protein source had been applied for Edman sequencing (quote: “…but scant amino acid sequence data could be obtained before the target molecule was lost to view.” ). In an attempt to overcome this shortcoming the authors speculate that the experimentally determined amino acid sequence “MKPLTGKVKEFNNI” might originate from a protein’s partial peptide which was produced by peptide splicing. The idea to assume peptide splicing as a cause of the determined amino acid sequence is driven by (rather weak) amino acid sequence similarities which seemed to point to SgII (or SgII-70) as a potential source of the amino acid sequence in question. Unfortunately, the authors do not provide evidence that peptide splicing should occur with SgII as substrate within the tissues which had been investigated by IHC. SgII was taken into consideration by the authors because this protein had been listed as potentially identified by IP followed by LC-MS analysis, as is stated. The authors report that in this particular case SgII identification was based on a single peptide match - out of a protein that in case of coming from Drosophila contains 1220 amino acids - when setting an FDR of 5%. Following suggested standards (see Carr et al . 2004; Mol. Cell. Proteom. 3, 531-533, 2004 2 ) this identification result would rather be considered questionable. Of even more importance, finding a potential target protein by IP followed by LC-MS cannot replace precise characterization of an antigen’s total amino acid sequence prior to performing epitope mapping experiments. For determining an unknown amino acid sequence on the protein level, see e.g. Yefremova et al . J. Am. Soc. Mass Spectrom. (2015) 26:482-492 3 . Next, instead of repeating and/or improving antigen identification upon IP (or by other means) and despite not having unequivocally characterized the assumed antigen’s amino acid sequence, the authors had raised a polyclonal antibody, G530, against a synthetic peptide, named EPL001, which comprises the amino acid sequence “MKPLTGKVKEFNNI”. The authors show that (i) G530 recognizes certain blood vessel structures in tissues from different origin by IHC and (ii) G530-dependent IHC staining can be abolished by blocking G530 upon pre-incubation with EPL001. Encouraged by the antibody-related IHC staining pattern, the authors herewith justify their epitope mapping experiments which are described in this manuscript, despite the fact that their first try failed to identify the “endogenous” antigen by deducing its identity from its assumed epitope amino acid sequence “MKPLTGKVKEFNNI”. Epitope mapping with IHC as readout, as conducted in this manuscript, looks like an interesting alternative to other epitope mapping methods and starts with subsequently exposing the antibody of interest, in this case G530, to various peptides which do or do not show binding to the antibody. In this study peptide EPL001 and some derivatives therefrom were applied for pre-incubating G530 prior to conducting IHC staining experiments. However, one has to keep in mind that lack of IHC staining of the investigated tissue sections - which stands for saturation of the antibody’s paratope by peptide binding - is at best an indirect manner of epitope mapping and without appropriate controls lacks proof that loss of IHC staining is not caused by unrelated means, such as addition of detergents, pH change, etc. Unfortunately, the manuscript’s Experimental section does not provide enough information to estimate possible influence of such potential confounding factors. The authors are asked to provide more experimental details (see recommendations in the article guidelines: “Methods sections should provide sufficient details of the materials and methods used so that the work can be repeated by others.”). Also to be considered, binding of the peptide(s) under study to the antibody of interest is not shown directly by this method. Nevertheless, the authors performed the respective blocking experiments with various peptides, which are summarized in table 1 of this manuscript, and report that there are shorter partial peptide structures - with resemblances to EPL001 - which render negative IHC staining, hence block G530. From these results a “motif” of six amino acid residues (“KEFNNI”) is deduced by the authors as being necessary for binding G530 with both, the EPL001 peptide and the as of yet still unknown “endogenous” antigen. While the authors’ reasoning can be accepted for EPL001 and its shorter peptide derivatives, demanding that the “KEFNNI” motif must be present on the “endogenous” antigen of G530 is not automatically warranted. Moreover, one has to consider that the “KEFNNI” motif is precisely part of, but shorter than, the EPL001 peptide amino acid sequence and, therefore, adds no new information beyond what had been shown by dot blot experiments (contained in ref. 1, Figure 2). Consequently, the authors see themselves forced to narrow their base of their hypothesis on an even shorter piece of amino acid sequence as compared to that of EPL001, their first try with searching for the “endogenous” antigen using an amino acid sequence motif. In other words, the authors loosen stringency for data base search to find the mutual antigen and (as might have been expected) fail again in their attempt to convincingly identify the “endogenous” antigen of G530 by applying their “epitope amino acid sequence-based” strategy with focus on SgII as the potential “endogenous” target. In their attempts to provide more evidence on their reasoning the authors include results from molecular modelling approaches by which they intend to substantiate their assumptions about SgII being the “endogenous” antigen and to describe molecular structural features of EPL001 which might be required for antibody binding. Yet, these in-silico investigations remain theoretical and descriptive, hence, they ultimately stay inconclusive and are not convincing with respect to now “nailing” SgII as the “endogenous” antigen. Intriguingly, throughout this manuscript the authors apply methods whose data are to be interpreted rather indirectly in order to prove or falsify their hypothesis instead of using methods whose data provide results which can be directly interpreted to come to unequivocal conclusions. In other words, the authors try to compensate lacking experimental evidence with unproven theories. One is missing experiments which (i) deliver direct evidence about the nature of the epitope’s amino acid sequence(s) and (ii) allow determining the identity of the “endogenous” antigen. These circumstances are addressed by the authors in the discussion and outlook of this manuscript but their respective statements remain sketchy. More precise outlines about how the authors plan to continue with their attempts to experimentally determine the “endogenous” antigen of G530 ought to be added to this paragraph of the manuscript. The authors could mention that despite their first unsuccessful attempts with “aqueous” protein extracts it might seem more promising to retrieve the full length antigen protein, e.g. by immunoprecipitation, with protein extracts which also contain less soluble proteins (see e.g. DeCaprio and Kohl, Cold Spring Harb Protoc 2017 doi: 10.1101/pdb.prot098566 4 ). They could mention that they intended to perform an in-depth characterization of the pulled-down and confirmed antigen protein, e.g. by mass spectrometric methods (see e.g. Yefremova et al . J. Am. Soc. Mass Spectrom. (2015) 26:482-492 3 ). With respect to the epitope mapping and antibody recognition motif search, the authors could point to next apply methods which are capable to directly show binding to antibodies of peptides with varying amino acid sequences. A mass spectrometry-based method which is capable to do this is named “ITEM-THREE” and has recently been published by us (see Danquah et al . Mol. Cell. Proteom. (2019) 18:1543-1555 5 ). Minor comments: The term “primary sequence” ought to be deleted from the manuscript and replaced by either “amino acid sequence” or “primary structure”, depending on what of the two is to be described. The M+M section needs more precise descriptions so that the “storage conditions” of the peptides can be understood. The pre-incubation experiments need to be described in more detail. Buffer compositions, protein and peptide concentrations, and pH need to be given. How was the antiSGII antibody performance tested? Please add details. Without knowing whether the antibody is in fact capable of binding to SgII it is difficult to estimate the mentioned IHC results. 