Thorburn et al. describe an experiment where they test the dual effect of two secondary plant compounds on bumble bee mortality and parasite load after infections with the pathogen Crithidia bombi . This paper addresses an interesting question that follows up recent findings about the potential use of secondary metabolites of nectar as a self-medication mechanism to reduce parasite infections in bumble bees. However, we found several major points that the authors should address to clarify the results of the study and to better frame it within the context of previous findings. Major concerns: We found multiple points of the statistical analysis that were unclear: For the experiment, the authors say they used a Cox proportional hazards mixed-effect model. However, the risk ratio of death is not reported, which is one of the most informative parameters to quantitatively estimate the difference in survival between the four groups. It is also surprising that there was no significant difference between the survival of the groups. From Fig. 3, it seems that the group in the Nicotine+Anabasine had lower probability of survival.na Wouldnt a model that allows for interactions of treatment, colony and mass be more appropriate? Regarding mass and colony, since both terms were highly significant, how does that affect the interpretation of the results? Was there no relationship with mass and treatment? Also did the masses of bees from the experiment differ from those in the experiment due to the stress they experienced during pupation? The authors report a high pre-experiment mortality rate in the treatment. Is it possible that the pupae were stressed before starting the experiment and that this condition had a significant effect in the bee survival during the experiment? Even in the control bees, a 60% mortality after 7 days was reported. This numbers seem high compared to other recent studies (Baracchi et al. 2015, Richardson et al 2015). It was interesting to find out that the treatment generated the most interesting results. However, the conflicting findings of the and variable treatments need to better reconcile in the discussion. There also needs to be more information reported regarding how the temperature fluctuated. Why do authors think that the results of the variable treatment were the product of heat stress and not cold stress, or just stress in general? Similarly the fact that the variable treatment was during pupation and not just during the treatment period needs to be addressed along with the implications of that possible effect. This is an overall comment about the structure of the introduction and discussion. Even though the text is well written, the structure of these sections does not connect ideas very well. It reads as a list of ideas, rather than one story with a beginning and an end. Minor comments: In the abstract, authors state that they tested for effect between two alkaloid compounds. However, results show antagonistic effects between them. Would it be better to just broadly state that the authors are testing for possible interactions between these compounds? The 2nd to last paragraph in the introduction. The authors should make the point that this is the first study to look at a combination of any alkaloids, and not just nicotine and anabasine, if thats the case. It makes this study more significant and should be highlighted. In MM, the subheading diet treatment could be confused with a treatment where variable amounts of protein, carbohydrates and lipids were used. Would it be better to call this section Secondary Compound Treatments? On a similar note, the authors may consider changing the names of the treatment groups to and or something to that effect so there are not two control treatments. Was the inoculation done before or after the diet treatment? If it was done before, please mention this section of the methods in the order in which the experiment took place. This will help the reader with clarity about the process. The sample sizes for the parasite load analysis could be in the text or figure, rather than in a supplementary file. 2nd paragraph of the discussion. Baracchi et al. 2015 found the same result of low levels of nicotine causing mortality, which is left out here. The section entitled In a controlled temperature environment starts by seemingly contradicting the previous section without any discussion of that. Also these results need to be reconciled with Baracchi et al. 2015. Should be black queen cell virus (instead of brood queen cell virus) The paragraph explaining the difference in chemical composition between the nicotine in Richardson et al and this manuscript is too long and it still doesnt explain why there was no effect on the parasite loads. The last sentence of the discussion states that bees would be unlikely to consume enough nicotine from nectar to experience toxic effects. There is a large body of literature on the effects toxic nectar on bees, how can the authors be certain about that? Particularly given that some nectar is stored within the nest and combined with other nectars. 