This is a comprehensive piece of modelling work. A complex model has been developed and tested and seems to support the evidence, particularly the effects of porto-systemic shunting which I don’t believe has been included in other modelling studies. In this sort of work it is difficult to provide unequivocal confirmation of model validity because of the complexity, the fact that some phenomena are inevitably not included although key ones have been, and any clinical data tends to be partial and there may be other things happening that have not been recorded. However as far as I can see the model supports expected behaviour and reported studies. The equations are logical and solution methods seem appropriate. I have a few comments about parameter sensitivity and equation and parameter presentation below. The Conclusions are supported by the predictions. I did find it difficult to relate the discussion with the model because of the way that nomenclature was used. For example on page 15 para 2 it refers to Table 1D GLP-1 equation 1 but I am not clear exactly which parameter it is referring to (similarly four lines later). What would really help would be for Table 2 to also give the variable name and equation number where it appears for each parameter. This table does not give sources for the data and whether they are either taken from literature or fitted. I think this would also help. A few sensitivity studies have been done. I think they have been done because they are thought by the author to be important for clinical reasons. But it may be that model outputs are very sensitive to some parameters and it would be useful to know which ones these are. For example I would have thought that ‘GLUT2 Km’ (presumably ‘KM_GLUT2’ in the model = 20mM) was important given the key role of GLUT2 but sensitivity to this one isn’t tested. Are there others that are critical to model performance? If so the quality of the data supporting this would be critical. On page 17 ‘portosystemic shunt resistances’ were varied but what is the variable name and equation number where it appears? Some of the verification is vague. For example on p20 it says ‘these simulations are consistent with those found in NASH’ but does this mean qualitatively, in which what particular features, or quantitatively, in which case this could be quantified? Similarly in the following column ‘Hepatic shunt flow gas no significant effect on HA model’ but this isn’t shown. Is this to be expected? On page 28 does the tenfold increase in insulin-sensitive metabolism apply to the whole metabolism? If so what is the effect on measurable metabolites and is there evidence that this might be the true? Some of the syntax of the models isn’t correct: Renal urine glucose flow (eqn 6 and repeated at the bottom of the page) is missing a bracket and Hepatic glucose metabolic rate has a spare one. These were the only two I spotted but it is worth checking all.