The ANGDelMut tool is one of the latest additions to the long list of web-based tools that aim to provide researchers with a preliminary possibility to screen for pathogenic mutations in a gene/protein of interest. In this particular case, the authors have focused on mutations occurring in the Angiogenin gene that was previously found to be associated with the development of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis in several patients. Overall, I found the Introduction well written and comprehensively explained, especially after the first round of revision. As with many tools of its kind, in my opinion two factors are very important to meet user expectations: "friendliness" of the interface and speed of execution. With regards to the interface I found it rather easy to use. It is possible to set up a Batch job within minutes of having seen it for the first time, and I was notified by e-mail of its acceptance immediately (for some reason I received two identical mails, but this is a minor glitch). First of all, something that I noticed is that in my first query the answer I received after a few hours was the following "... your submitted mutation is located at the signal peptide region of Angiogenin. In other words, the source residue which has to be mutated, is not present in the mature protein and thus is absent in the crystal structure (3D structure)". I can of course understand the reason for this, but I also wonder why, in the first place, there is the possibility to search for mutations in regions where the authors already know that no prediction will be made. As far as I could see, this has not been mentioned in the program interface, and should be clearly stated (alternatively, I would make it impossible to search in the signal peptide region). Regarding the speed of execution, after 24 hours of setting up my second query (outside the signal peptide region) the job was 70% to completion according to the status bar (that I found a very good addition to the program). Whilst I found this an acceptable time, as we are talking about MD simulations, I also have to note that in this query I only specified the attribute for loss of ribonucleolytic activity. This probably means that readers should be well advised not to make a "blanket" search for all the possible attributes, unless they are prepared to wait for a very long time. It would be great, although I am not sure if feasible, if users could receive a rough idea of the time they will have to wait to receive an answer, depending on the options chosen. In conclusion, my experience with the interface was rather positive and I experienced no problems whatsoever with serve connection etc... Therefore, although I also would like to stress that especially in a clinical setting predictions are pretty much useless in the absence of experimental validation, my opinion is that ANGDelMut is a very ambitious, and mostly successful approach to try and bring the world of MD simulations to researchers who do not have advanced training in this highly specialized field. At the very least, ANGDelMut would probably be useful to "prioritize" experimental validations in the presence of several mutations to be tested. Finally, as a general note, readers should also be made aware that missense mutations at the aminoacid level may not necessarily be acting just on the protein properties but also on the pre-mRNA splicing process (samesense mutations, of course, can do this as well). In this particular case, the ANG gene is composed of only two exons with the entire coding region contained in the second and last exon (that, like first exons, is subject to some rather distinct recognition models with respect to classical internal exons). Therefore, I think it would be well if the authors could also add in the Discussion that even if MD simulations and experimental validations detect no change in protein properties it is always possible that a particular nucleotide change may act on other aspects of gene expression such as mRNA processing.