The manuscript by Hartmann et al . describes the establishment of an in vivo assay using plant cell culture cell system to estimate the geranylgeranylation of proteins. The geranylgeranilation is a posttranslational modification required for particular targeting and interactions of some proteins but in plants its function is not fully characterized. Interestingly, previous work by the same group has demonstrated that this modification relays in the activity of the chloroplast isoprenoid MEP pathway and not in the Mevalonate pathway, that operates in the cytoplasm. This manuscript describes the implementation of an in vivo method that allows screening for novel drugs or external signals that affect the isoprenylation process. This method takes advantage of the change in the subcellular localization of a genarygeranylated protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. The authors analyze different parameters in order that this bioassay could be use in a qualitative and quantitative manner. In particular this is interesting because there are not too many examples that uses plant culture cells for massive screenings based on fluorescence. My impression is that this manuscript reports a valuable methodology that will be of interest for many groups interested in understanding basic aspects of the prenylation and isoprenoid synthesis in general, and also for selection of novel inhibitors of the pathway. The data included is of good quality data and also this manuscript provides a very detailed discussion of the different parameter of the implemented system. However, a general comment of this manuscript is that is very long for the reader. I consider that some aspects could be shortened without loosing critical points. For example, the general considerations from the introduction (page 3) could be shortened. This is also true for some points in the Results and Methodology such as the description of the ImageJ method or the modified RFP reporter protein that perhaps does not require to be described in such detail and just providing the corresponding references or refer to the related table might be sufficient. - Another aspect I found unusual from the manuscript is that in the Discussion the authors again included additional results. I think that the authors should present the Results in the corresponding section. For example the influence of the putative methylation over the cells is an aspect that I think should be described in the Result section. Additionally of these general aspects related to the organization of the manuscript I have some major points that would be important to address: - The authors select a secondary calli line that is homogenous in the fluorescence and nicely demonstrate that this line exhibits high fluorescence ratio. An important aspect to described is how stable this secondary suspension culture is and how long have the authors followed it. I wonder whether this could be a problem in the transgene expression over time. It is well know that liquid cultures tend to have polyploidization, chromosomal aberrations and maybe changes in chromatin condition. I think this is an important information to be included, particularly if somebody is interested in the selected line. The authors mention some of this aspect in the Discussion but its stability over time is an important information. - To reinforce that the changes in localization observed with the inhibitors is due to a specific blockage of the MEP pathway the authors also used microRNA interference of the HMGR and DXR genes. The authors report that the localization of the GFP-BD_CVIL is very similar to that observed with fosmidomycin and oxoclomasone, supporting the role of the MEP pathway in the geranylgenarlynation. However in the case of the ami HMGR the authors state to not detect any change in the localization. If I understand correct no difference in localization was found with the MVA inhibitor (Figure 9G) and this is exactly what they were expecting. From this result the authors discuss about the inhibition levels for the HMGR that appear to be limited and the possible role of sterols for silencing. I think that this aspect in the current form and probably requires rewriting. Also since the levels of RNA the different ami lines tested are not shown this part remains not fully clear. Thus I think that if this aspect remains the authors should at least mention the inhibition level observed in each line. Minor comment In the abstract the authors state Furthermore, complementation assays with pathway-specific intermediates confirmed that the precursors for the cytosolic isoprenylation of this fusion protein are predominantly provided by the MEP pathway Maybe it escapes me but I did not find any mention in the text of complementation with the intermediates and maybe this paragraph maybe deleted from the Abstract. Page 10. As a negative control the cells were treated with the plasma membrane stain FM4-64. I presume that this data is not shown and this should be indicated in the text. Page 10. In the induction with 6M Est the time laps used maybe better to be reported in increasing order after induction. In the legend of Figure 7 it is stated Saturation is already reach after 24 h of induction with both elicitors. Since both elicitors are not shown in this Figure as stated before I suggest that this statement is moved to the text and not in the Legend. 