The authors describe a case of Nitrofurantoin-induced interstitial lung disease. However a lot of important data are missing from this review. The authors do not report the duration of nitrofurantoin therapy. This is of utmost importance as there are 3 types of reactions regarding nitrofurantoin related lung toxicity: acute, sabacute and chronic. Determining the type of reaction is critical as this is associated with the clinical features of the patient, the radiographic findings and the time needed for their resolution after nitrofurantoin withdrawal. The authors report: CT scanning of the chest showed widespread ground-glass appearance in both lungs with organising pneumonia. First, in the CT image provided (figure 4) is of poor quality and the prominent pattern is not that of ground glass opacities (GGO). Second, organizing pneumonia is a histology pattern. No radiology pattern is conclusive of organizing pneumonia. It is important not to confuse histology with radiology patterns. There are two CXR presented in the article, on admission and at discharge (figure 3 and 5). The second CXR shows marked (almost complete improvement). Given the fact that the patient received co-amoxiclav (1.2gr x 4 iv), a likely scenario is that of lower respiratory tract infection. The patient presented with hypercarbia. In the chronic form of nitrofurantoin related lung toxicity there is usually underlying fibrosis. This leads to a rapid shallow pattern of breathing causing hypocarbia and not hypercarbia. The history of smoking (50 pack years) in this context favors the possibility of lower respiratory tract infection. No data are given regarding pulmonary function tests.Based on the above, a diagnosis of nitrofurantoin related lung toxicity cannot be robustly proven. This cases refers to a well known drug-induced ILD in patients taking nitrofurantoin. The first sentence into discussion is erroneous. ---COP is included in the idiopathic interstitial pneumonias! It should be termed as non cryptogenic if the cause is known... 