Page 1, Abstract: “89.98%” - 90%. What about the remaining participant? In the method section, the total participant mentioned was 161, and in results section it is said 90%. Confusion! “Functional literacy” - What is functional literacy? Briefly define the working definition of health literacy and pesticide use behavior in the abstract. Page 3, Introduction: “The top ten pesticides imported by Thailand…” - This is not required. Page 3, Methods: “194 sweet corn farmers were identified” - What was the sampling method? Random and purposeful? Any sample size calculations done? What was the population of the sweet corn farmer? “The research framework was approved…” - It is better suited in the text later - under the heading “ethical statement”. “who could read and write” - This study intentionally excluded illiterate sweet corn farmers? Why? These farmers might be at higher risk of exposure? “6 dimensions” - Any reference? Page 4, Methods: “36 items” - What are those 36 items? Please provide in the appendix. “low, moderate or high levels” - It is not clear that whether the authors demarcated these levels or derived from literature. “low, moderate and high standards of pesticide use behaviors” - Please provide 20 items in the appendix. “A score of 67 was considered to be low, a score of 67–69 was considered to be moderate and a score of 69 was considered to be high.” - Any literature published on these 3 categories? If so, please cite. “This analysis could also be performed using a non-proprietary software such as R.” - This is not required. Page 4, Results, The demographic characteristics of the 161 sweet corn farmers: “male” – Males. “had been” – Have been. “mixing” - What is the mixing method? Page 5, Results, Patterns of pesticide use: “four pesticide types” – Four types of pesticides. “pesticides” – Insecticides. “are” - Were Page 5, Results, Health literacy (HL) of pesticide use: “2. pesticide application, 3. pesticide application” – What is the difference between 2 and 3? Page 6, Discussion: “did not follow the current recommended dose or number of sprays” – I did not see any data on it in the result section. Ref 18 - This reference may be wrong here. Discussion is poor. Most of the discussion was done on the “consequences” of pesticide use, not on the results. The paper finds significant association between cognitive literacy and pesticide use behaviors, but not explained it in details. I would suggest having the results explained in the discussion section with some theory and recent literature. Page 7, Table 6: I see a number of zero values in the cells. How did authors consider these values in the Chi-square test? Page 8, Conclusions: “the self-management and decision-making skills dimensions (p 0.01)” - This relationship should be explained in the discussion section. “The farmer has to find out…” - This is not required. 