Written by two long-standing, respected professional biomedical authors’ editors, this article responds to the proposal to create core competencies (CC) “for scientific editors of biomedical journals”. Although commending the proposal, Matarese and Shashok point out that Moher et al.’ s use of the term “scientific editor”, instead of “journal editor” or “decision-making editor", might raise confusion about the type of editor to which the CC apply. They also argue that when refining the CC, authors’ experiences with journals provide useful insights into the CC needed by journal editors. Matarese and Shashok point out that some scientific editors do not work for a publisher or journal but instead work closely with researcher-authors, helping them to produce publishable papers – a service particularly helpful to authors writing in their second (or third) language or living in the Global South. These “authors’ editors” can also help their author clients to deal with reviewer comments and journal-related correspondence, thereby accumulating valuable information on authors’ experiences with journal editors. Authors’ editors are thus well-placed to contribute to formulating certain CC, especially in relation to assessing the quality of the English and providing clear, constructive feedback to authors. Drawing on their extensive knowledge of journal–author intercommunication, Matarese and Shashok plead for reversal of the decision not to include competence to deal with language issues and knowledge of the “fundamentals of editing” from the CC. They also express surprise at another omission: competency in plagiarism detection. Again, they point out relevant insights that authors’ editors can supply. Matarese and Shashok’s case for expanding and refining the CC with the help of authors’ editors is convincingly argued. They have underpinned it with references to relevant publications by authors’ editors that are probably unfamiliar to editors of science journals. The table of editors’ associations indicates that there are professional associations providing CPD that committed, principled authors’ editors may join. All this helps broadcast the actual and potential usefulness of authors’ editors to researcher-authors, journals, journal reviewers and journal editors. However, to avoid creating the impression that all authors’ editors are suitably trained, optimally competent in all the editing they undertake, involved members of appropriate associations and proactive in undertaking CPD, Matarese and Shashok should acknowledge that there are no CC for authors’ editors, nor are authors’ editors required to have certain academic or professional qualifications. Matarese and Shashok are currently among the most respected and high-profile biomedical authors’ editors; their plea to involve authors’ editors in developing CC for journal editors should be placed in that context. 