This review manuscript represents an interesting study into the various thermoregulation strategies used in ant nests and mounds. A particular strength of the manuscript is the conclusion that there are two main types of thermoregulation strategies used: ‘thermal gradient’ in nests or a ‘stable temperature’ with a heat core. The review concentrates mainly on three aspects to reveal these strategies: nest/mound material and architecture properties, ant behavioral reaction and ant metabolic heat. The manuscript is well written and the discussion seems to be sound. I believe it is a good paper on ant nest ecology, but there are several issues that should be considered. Upon reading this paper it is clear that the two different thermoregulatory strategies are its core point, which is explained from three aspects. However these two thermoregulatory strategies are an existing phenomena which are simply being discussed and explored in more detail and should therefore not be the ‘conclusion’ of this article. Instead I think it would be better to state the existence of these two strategies in the Introduction section and then discuses the mechanisms of the phenomena in the rest of the article. Some of the content is rather long and would benefit from being condensed a little to make the overall message clearer. For example: the termites in Table 1 and the details of strategies used by bees, bumblebees and wasps. As this paper focuses on ant thermoregulation characteristics, the content on other insects should deleted as they are not really necessary. The explanations of " ant metabolic heat " for ant nest thermoregulation in " Use of metabolic heat for nest thermoregulation in ants " are not clear. From the explanations given I still cannot understand how ant metabolic heat impacts on ant mound temperatures or how the ants adopt an ant mound temperature. This content needs to be further explained. The conclusion could do with a rewrite. It should not only reiterate the two opposite thermoregulatory strategies but also condense the messages from other sections, namely: nest/mound material and architecture properties, ant behavioral reaction and ant metabolic heat. 