 Summary: The article titled "Predictive statistical model for the factors associated with prenatal depression among pregnant adolescents in Maha Sarakham province, Thailand", is a cross-sectional study focused on adolescent pregnant mothers aged ≤19 years, and have an estimated gestational age of ≤18 weeks. The study is relevant, as it highlighted several risk factors associated with prenatal depression and some of which are: level of education, perceived support from husband and perceived relationship with husband. The study found a high prevalence of depression among this group of people which I think is a public health concern needing an urgent governmental intervention. Report: A. Title: The title for this study is not appropriate as I did not see a predictive statistical modeling . Predictive modeling in statistics is more complex than what you have here. Sometimes, data mining and probability are applied in order to forecast outcomes. I think you should just leave the title as: Factors associated with prenatal depression among pregnant adolescents in Maha Sarakham province, Thailand B. Abstract: The results section , the sentence with the words: “ … and those with a perceived bad relationship with their husband or partner seven times higher.” should read: “…and those with a perceived bad relationship with their husband or partner had seven times higher .” C. Introduction: The statement, “ Adolescents can develop health problems during pregnancy that adversely affect both physical and psychological health ( UNFPA, 2014b ).” should read, “Adolescents can develop health problems during pregnancy that adversely affect both their physical and psychological health ( UNFPA, 2014b ). I do not think your introduction reference should begin with UNFPA, 2014b but instead UNFPA, 2014a . “ a ” should come before “ b .” Please do switch the reference. I am not sure what the phrase “...adult women” means in the sentence: “ Risks factors for depression among pregnant adolescents include not only those listed for adult women…” as you did not list any risk factors for adult women. The statement, “ …and a history of emotion, sexual, and physical abuse..” should read, " …and a history of emotio nal , sexual, and physical abuse. “ Little research, however, has been conducted in northeastern Thailand, especially in Maha Sarakham province, where the rate of adolescent pregnancy is reported to be high." is a very strong statement and should be backed-up with literature. D. Results: Your Table 2 has 4 p-values but you only have 3 variables here you are associating. Please confirm and correct. In Table 2, you also have 5 Adjusted OR. I think this should be just the 3 you mentioned in your text: 6.5, 5.1 and 7.4. E. Discussion: “ As a matter of public health...” should read, “As a matter of public health concern ”. 