This article by Hemingway and co-authors presents the results of a lexical analysis of an open-ended survey question presented to secondary school students participating in the PlantingScience ( www.plantingscience.org ) program. The survey question probed what students most-liked about participation in the inquiry-based classroom research experience supported by online discourse with a scientist mentor. The article is a well-written and, in my opinion, important contribution to the literature about science education in general and botanical education in particular. The major themes that emerged from the research are that students value their personal relationships both to their scientist mentor and their study organisms, and that the ability to exert some control over choice of study organism, research question, or methodology encouraged students to take ownership in their learning experience. The programs intervention of connecting student researchers with plant scientist mentors via online discourse seems particularly important given the lack of botanical training of many primary and secondary teachers and the significance of a plant mentor for stimulating lifelong interest and awareness of plants. This is an important article for increasing visibility of the PlantingScience program, but the findings have broader implications for botanical education; in particular, it provides a strong example of the value of directly exposing students to the lives of plants as an effective means of replacing plant blindness with plant appreciation and interest. Some general comments: Abstract is concise and clear; provides adequate context for study and presents the major conclusions. Discussion related to Figure 4 was illuminating and suggests ways that educators can encourage students interest in inquiry-type projects of any discipline. The combination of the lexical webs and example student comments was an effective illustration of the major themes identified by the analysis. Excellent selection of student quotes. Methods used for analysis of survey data are sound and the conclusions are justified by the data. The paper generally is clearly written but could be improved by making some of the text more explicit. For example, consider this sentence: For plant science, meaningful and early exposure may be critical As a reader, I am unclear about what the authors are implicitly stating here, and it would be better for them to be explicit about their meaning. When I read, For plant science in that sentence, I am left feeling that something is missing, that this thought is incomplete (What about plant science? For plant science to do what? For plant science to be considered important, valid, of interest? Critical for what?). The writing will be stronger when the connections are explicitly and completely stated. Please elaborate on cross-cutting concepts in the reference to the National Research Council (2009) (cross-cutting concepts applied in innovative solutions), since this meaning is unclear. I refrained from reading with an eye toward grammatical issues, but I would like to make one suggested revision: The online platform ( www.plantingscience.org ) not only eliminates geographic limitations but also makes student thinking visible through its design features, enabling students, teachers and mentors to monitor thinking and learning and to provide feedback. Thank you for the opportunity to review this excellent paper. 