The wide spread of infection of 2019-nCoV has arouse an international concern since its original outbreak in Wuhan, China. Scientists and health workers around the world are currently working together to wipe out the virus and the novel coronavirus pneumonia (NCP), which has killed more than a thousand lives, by far, worldwide. With the current epidemic being so severe, it is necessary and urgent to make potentially reasonable recommendations for the treatment or prevention for 2019-nCoV or NCP. The two authors clearly proposed that lithium might be a potential treatment or prophylaxis for 2019-nCoV or NCP based on a summary of existing literature that reported the in vitro effects of lithium on coronaviral infections and discussed potential mechanisms, which sound reasonable to some extent, but still not rigorous. Specifically, there are few related studies available and only in vitro data have been reported. The authors may need more related studies and solid evidence to support their hypothesis to make it more scientific and rigorous. As reported, lithium can be toxic due to its side effects, mainly thyroid, renal, and cognitive disturbances. Readers may wish to see more clinical information of lithium in treating viral infection cases, if not available, or in treating other diseases. In terms of discussion, the authors reviewed some existing literature and suggested a potential mechanism of reduced apoptosis by lithium, the glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta (GSK-3β) inhibitor. The possibility that targeting at GSK-3β by lithium may potentially affect the coronavirus is an interesting topic. However, direct in vitro evidence is lacking regarding 2019-nCoV or related coronaviruses including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses. Moreover, relevant literature is still needed although the authors state that there is no interaction between lithium carbonate and ribavirin, lopinavir, or ritonavir exist. Another aspect worth noting is that the authors indicate that monitoring serum lithium concentration can be helpful in preventing side effects of lithium, however it should be emphasized that the in vivo relationship between the effective dose and toxic dose of lithium is still unclear, with some studies reporting a dose-dependent manner of the inhibitory effect of lithium in vitro . Thus, it warrants more data, both in vitro and in vivo , to clarify this issue. Collectively, this study proposes a potential role of lithium in treating or preventing 2019-nCoV or NCP with some possible mechanisms. However, by far, solid evidence is lacking to validate this hypothesis. The time of developing lithium orotate for clinical use, even in emergency, is not yet. 