 Reviewer’s General Summary The current research investigated the effect of type (bars vs. optotype) and position (top-and-bottom vs. side-by-side vs. all four sides) of flankers on foveal crowding (It was not clear if the surrounding box was a separate factor or level within the type or position). The aims of the study were two-folds: the authors tried to (1) compare how the above-listed factors affect the foveal crowding in terms of performance change relative to the reference uncrowded acuity, which is individually determined to yield 80 to 90% correct identification. (2) find the optimum separation between target and flankers that produce maximum crowding, where they found the optimal separation to be the abutting condition, not the single stroke-width, regardless of flanker type as well as position. Overall, the effect of flanker positions was presented in a series of figures by each flanker type, where the effect of crowding was greatest with four bars, followed by the left-and-right bars with top-and-bottom bars showing the minimum crowding (Figure 2). Similarly, the effect of crowding was maximised when all four sides of the target were surrounded by optotypes. However, crowding was minimal with left-and-right optotypes while the effect of crowding with the top-and-bottom condition was tantamount to that in four surrounding optotypes, which is different from when bars were used as flankers (Figure 3). The effect of surrounding box was compared to different flanker types only with four sides conditions, where the effect of crowding among the surrounding bars, optotypes, and box was more or less similar (Figure 4). More specific comments can be found below. The reviewer recommends the paper to be accepted with the reservation that the authors address the issues in the specifics satisfactorily. Method Procedure What were the size of the monitor and its pixel resolution? Given the unusually long viewing distance (11 to 13 metres), I gather the experiments were conducted in some sort of long hallway. Please describe the place and lighting condition with overall luminance level. Missing age and gender information of the participants. In Figure 1, sample stimulus pictures are not correctly scaled. In Figure 2-4 what are the error bars representing? It is strongly recommended the authors provide the individual viewing distance and threshold letter size in visual angle along with the relative performance. For the uncrowded performance, I am wondering if the authors tried any item analysis for each individual letters to see how each letter fared across observers. It has been shown ( e.g. , Bernard Chung, 2011; Hanus Vul, 2013; Liu Arditi, 2001) that there are some differences in detectability among letters. This came to the reviewer’s attention due to the possible imbalance in the current experimental design, which is detailed below. It was not clear to me if the surrounding box condition was treated as a separate factor or a level under flanker configuration or flanker type. This is critical since it is directly relevant to your analyses to follow. If I am not mistaken, the total number of conditions tested is 37, which is calculated from the combination of 6 target-to- flanker separations X 3 flanker positions (top-to-bottom vs.side-by-side vs. all four sides) X 2 flanker features/types (bars vs. optotypes) and an extra condition with a surrounding box flanker. With this number of conditions, I am confused how you can possibly counterbalance the conditions with seven letters to be equally presented across conditions in both the single letter and crowding condition when the total numbers of trials used were 400 and 3200 respectively. This problem still holds even when I include the surrounding box condition as a level under either flanker feature or position. Together with the possible difference in legibility among the letters, this imbalance can be a serious threat to the validity of the study. Results Analyses According to the results, maximum crowding occurs when flankers touch the target regardless of flanker types and positions then the magnitude of crowding monotonically diminishes as a function of target-flanker separation. Especially for the bar flankers, this is somewhat different from the literature and the reviewer’s personal experience because bar flankers do not crowd some targets anymore when bars are blended with features of certain letters. For example, when bars are touching the sides to the vertical strokes of an H as in Figure 1(a) or top and bottom to an upright T as in Figure 1(b), they become a distinct featural addition to a new amalgamated pattern that can be readily picked up by foveal vision. This in turn may facilitate the identification of the target, which has been demonstrated many times as a dipper curve, instead of smooth and monotonic curve, when performance is plotted as a function of separation (Bedell et al., 2013; Danilova and Bondarko, 2006; Flom, Weymouth, and Kahneman, 1963; Jeon et al., 2010; Simmers et al., 1999). Thus, the monotonic function of crowding shown in the current paper begs explanation or discussion with respect to previous literature. In relation to the imbalance issue mentioned above, it was not clear whether a single omnibus ANOVA or multiple ANOVAs were performed. Furthermore, it is still not clear if the surrounding box condition was treated as a factor or a level. Please make sure to explain clearly how the surrounding box condition was treated in the analysis. Given the consistent trend in data regardless of flanker type and position where the relative performance monotonically increases as a function of flanker-target separation, a generalised linear modelling with nested model testing seems more appropriate than ANOVA. It will provide a more structured account on how the effect of flanker types and positions changes with respect to separation. Discussion As mentioned in the last paragraph of the introduction that the results would have an application in designing a clinical letter test, I expected in-depth discussion of how the current results can be compared to the existing clinical crowding acuity tests such as Cambridge Crowding Cards (Atkinson et al., 1988) or Glasgow Acuity Cards (McGraw and Winn, 1995). A few insightful recommendations or suggestions on this matter seem to be a nice addition to the current section. In the 1 st sentence of the last paragraph, the authors are saying, “In this study, abutting condition consistently produced the maximum amount of crowding, regardless of the flanker number or type,” which is not consistent with the abstract where they said, “Flankers abutting the target and at separation of one stroke width caused the largest reduction in performance, regardless of flanker type.” Typos Abstract line 13: ad and pg. 3 under Statistics: Benferroni Bonferroni References 1. Atkinson J, Anker S, Evans C, Hall R, et al.: Visual acuity testing of young children with the Cambridge Crowding Cards at 3 and 6 m. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh) . 1988; 66 (5): 505-8 PubMed Abstract 2. Bedell HE, Siderov J, Waugh SJ, Zemanová R, et al.: Contour interaction for foveal acuity targets at different luminances. Vision Res . 2013; 89 : 90-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Bernard JB, Chung ST: The dependence of crowding on flanker complexity and target-flanker similarity. J Vis . 2011; 11 (8). PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Danilova MV, Bondarko VM: Foveal contour interactions and crowding effects at the resolution limit of the visual system. J Vis . 2007; 7 (2): 25.1-18 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. FLOM MC, WEYMOUTH FW, KAHNEMAN D: VISUAL RESOLUTION AND CONTOUR INTERACTION. J Opt Soc Am . 1963; 53 : 1026-32 PubMed Abstract 6. Hanus D, Vul E: Quantifying error distributions in crowding. J Vis . 2013; 13 (4): 17 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Jeon ST, Hamid J, Maurer D, Lewis TL: Developmental changes during childhood in single-letter acuity and its crowding by surrounding contours. J Exp Child Psychol . 2010; 107 (4): 423-37 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Liu L, Arditi A: How crowding affects letter confusion. Optom Vis Sci . 2001; 78 (1): 50-5 PubMed Abstract 9. McGraw PV, Winn B: Measurement of letter acuity in preschool children. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt . 1995; 15 Suppl 1 : S11-7 PubMed Abstract 10. Simmers AJ, Gray LS, McGraw PV, Winn B: Contour interaction for high and low contrast optotypes in normal and amblyopic observers. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt . 1999; 19 (3): 253-60 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Jeon ST. Reviewer Report For: Effects of flanker type and position on foveal letter recognition [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1013 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9224.r14037 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1013/v1#referee-response-14037 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Norgett Y. Reviewer Report For: Effects of flanker type and position on foveal letter recognition [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1013 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9224.r14036 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1013/v1#referee-response-14036 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 06 Jun 2016 Yvonne Norgett , Anglia Vision Research, Department of Vision and Hearing Sciences, Faculty of Science and Technology, Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9224.r14036 The title and abstract are appropriate and accurately reflect the content of the article. Study design and methodology are sound and reflect the aims of the study. The conclusions are valid. Some minor points for correction: ... Continue reading READ ALL 