Version 4 is the first version of this report I have had an opportunity to review. The two major concerns I have are the need for more information concerning (1) the treatment procedures executed by parents and the speech-language pathologist (SLP) and (2) the fidelity with which they apply those procedures during child-parent interaction and parent training, respectively. I also will address a less substantial concern that was raised in a previous review. My recommendations on these issues include some steps that I believe should be taken as part of an additional revision as well as others that should be incorporated in the larger RCT. Treatment Procedure Description. More detailed information about treatment procedures is needed in part because of the complex way in which the intervention is delivered: indirectly, through parent training and ongoing coaching by the speech-language pathologist and directly, through interactions with the child by the parents. Currently, in their description of treatment procedures undertaken by parents, the authors provide explicit descriptions for only one activity and one routine, although 17 activities and routines comprise the bulk of the procedures they will enact. In addition, in the description of training, coaching and procedures undertaken by the SLP, it is hard to tell which procedures are considered key to achieving outcomes. To address these issues in the current report, I recommend that the authors provide readers with access to the intervention protocol or manual specifying each activity and routine being taught to the parents and further specification of the procedures incorporated by the SLP as part of parent training and coaching. Additionally, for the larger RCT, I recommend that the authors consult and make use of not only the CONSORT checklist related to pilot and feasibility trials, but also TIDieR: Template for Intervention Description and Replication (Hoffman et al ., 2014) 1 . Recent concerns about the transparency and replicability of interventions along with subsequent developments in the use of reporting guidelines suggest the importance, for both research and applied purposes, of the thorough description of interventions (Ludemann et al ., 2016) 2 , particularly those that are complex in nature. Fidelity . With regard to future fidelity procedures, I join the first reviewer of this version of the manuscript in recommending the addition of a process-based approach to the measurement of fidelity for treatment procedures undertaken by parents. In addition, I would recommend a similar approach be adopted for addressing the fidelity of the SLP training and coaching activities. In the current version of the study report, readers are assured that “The same SLP implements the parent training in all families, ensuring consistency and fidelity of this component of the intervention” (p. 6). Since one might expect more SLPs to become involved in parent training as the number of participants increases over the course of the RCT, the need to evaluate fidelity is likely to become substantially more pressing. Still, even were a single SLP able to provide training for all families, it would be valuable to verify that training methods do not vary substantially across children not because of appropriate attention to addressing each child’s specific needs but because the clinician’s attention, memory or other resources important to fidelity are taxed by factors that may be related to characteristics of the child, the parent, or other factors (Cane et al ., 2012; Justice et al ., 2015) 3 , 4 . Further, because a process-based approach will focus on possible key ingredients of the training, increased attention to this aspect of the methods may also promote the development of valuable supports to fidelity (e.g., checklists) with eventual benefits to Babble Boot Camp’s widespread adoption and use with fidelity by non-research SLPs. Response to earlier concerns regarding IPA transcriptions. A somewhat less substantive concern relates to the reporting of agreement data for transcriptions in this version of the study report. An earlier review raised the concern that APA transcription from LENA recordings was not supported by the manufacturers of that device and could seriously undermine the reliability/agreement of the outcome measures based on them. In this version of the manuscript, additional information about agreement methods is provided and the average percentage difference in pairs of transcriptions is reported as 8.5%. This finding was described as “consistent with acceptable transcription accuracy” (p. 5). I’d like to suggest that a citation is needed to support that characterization, ideally one based on transcriptions performed under similar conditions those reported here (i.e., with data obtained using Lena) as well as under more typical transcription conditions. Finally, I believe that it would be more appropriate to use the term “agreement” rather than either “reliability” or “accuracy” in discussion of this subject (Stolarova et al., 2014) 5 . These comments are offered in hopes of supporting the ongoing success of this ambitious and important line of inquiry. 