In this manuscript Erguler introduces the software tool that can be applied to modelling discrete time, age-structured population dynamics in R, Python and C. The basics of using the software in all three programming languages are well covered and the examples of its use and compelling and clearly explained. The code and equations provided seemed accurate and relevant (albeit with the caveat that I am an R user only, and an ecologist rather than mathematical biologist). I feel that a bit more background provided in the introduction would be beneficial, in particular an overview of the research areas where these models are used (as per the examples) and the reasons that age-structured models can be important to use. It would also be good to see some of the caveats/constraints of this sort of modelling framework discussed at some point so that a reader was better able to decide if it is a useful tool for them. Finally, there were a couple of places where I felt a bit more detail would be helpful: As someone who doesn't work on insects, a clarification of what constitutes a development cycle would be helpful. It would be helpful to more clearly explain the perturbate() function and perhaps provide an illustrative example of when it would be used. In the Nicholson's blowflies example it is not clear to me from the figure that relative heights of the minor cycles are "changing drastically". I feel this needs to be better depicted or explained. When introducing the plague model it would be helpful to explain how it is age-structured and clarify that this applies to the pathogen. Otherwise I have a set of very minor changes/suggestions. Introduction: Paragraph 1 - Suggest editing the first sentence to say that populations are heterogeneous, and one of the ways that they are heterogeneous is because age can cause differences among individuals. This feels like a clearer description to me. Paragraph 1 - Add "For example," to the start of the second sentence. Paragraph 1 - Suggest the end of the first paragraph needs some references to support this point. Paragraph 2 - Sentence starting "This approach" is difficult to read; perhaps split up to cover the deterministic/stochastic and discrete/continuous points separately? Implementation: In the R section in paragraph starting "By defining..." - "THE same principles apply...." In the C section in paragraph starting "The macro..." - "unoptimised implementations of the NEGATIVE binomial" Use Cases: Paragraph 1 - Change guideline to guidelines in final sentence. Age-structured host-parasite interactions - clarifying what Hastings was modelling originally would be helpful - title of reference says predators while in the text it says parasites? Paragraph starting "Hastings (1984)..." - change resembles to resemble. Eyam example - It was in 1665-1666 not in 1965-1966 as currently stated in the text. Summary: First sentence of the summary reads awkwardly and could do with rephrasing. Figure 4: One of the points is only partially on each graph - it would be good to change this. Figure 4 legend: Misspelling of Eyam Overall this manuscript is clearly written and explained and introduces a potentially useful piece of software available to a wide range of programmers. 