Major Comments: Page 5: Column 2: Instrumentation Section: It has been mentioned that the VICON system measures spatiotemporal parameters and hip, knee and ankle active range of motion during gait. The VICON system is normally used for capturing the data. For measuring and analyzing the kinematic parameters, there are other standard tools available such as Visual 3D. How the above-mentioned parameters are measured using VICON? Please justify it. How can we impose a specific velocity such as 100 beats per minute? Can we impose this speed on any other population i.e. other than DMII? Perhaps, it is a big concern. The study is evaluated while walking on an inclined surface only. What about the other activities such as stair ascending and descending and/or other complex activities? Can we impose the velocity of 100 bpm for other activities or even with different inclination angles? The other concern is regarding the applicability of Mo-Cap data (through the VICON system or Kinect) on rehabilitation exercises. It can be argued that for rehab, one necessarily needs muscle-activity, and therefore, only movement data (i.e. without muscle activity) will be insufficient to conclusively comment on performance. Hence, try to incorporate muscle-activity e.g. using wearable surface EMG, if possible. The results must also include a comparison with the existing literature. Perhaps, a comparison in a tabular form should be included. Minor Comments: Page 1: Abstract; Results: temporospatial and kinetic parameters…..In methods, temporospatial and kinematic parameters? Please clarify which statement is true. Also, generally the term spatiotemporal is used instead of temporospatial in the literature as you mentioned on page 5 instrumentation section. Page 1: Abstract: Conclusion is not clear. Page 3: Column 1: Introduction: Paragraph 1: BMI has not been defined. Page 5: Column 1: Line 1: AROM has not been defined. Page 5; Column 1: Line 2: …highly instrumented nature and the novelty of this study…..this sentence is not clear. Please rephrase it. Page 5: Column 2: Instrumentation section: …….recording at 120 Hz. The sentence is not clear. Also, it has been repeated twice within the same section. English/Grammar of the manuscript needs to be improved. 