I s the background of the case’s history and progression described in sufficient detail? David McDermott and colleagues are reporting the first example of protozoan infection ( Toxoplasma gondii ) in the context of the WHIM syndrome. The patient displays the characteristic clinical features of the syndrome including Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-induced warts, Myelokathexis and severe panleukopenia as detailed in the manuscript. He harbors a well-known CXCR4 mutation (R334X) most likely inherited from one of his parents (although sporadic cases were reported) but this information is not provided. Along this line, whether parents or close relatives also present with serum IgG for T. gondii is likely but not provided. It is interesting to note that the patient developed dengue virus infection one year before being diagnosed for Toxoplasma gondii but was negative for serum IgG (witnessing a primary infection?). Are enough details provided of any physical examination and diagnostic tests, treatment given and outcomes? Diagnostic for Toxoplasma gondii infection and treatment given are clearly mentioned. It would be also interesting that the authors mention about the evolution of Toxoplasma gondii infection by PCR testing during the 4 years follow up in the course of the daily trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole treatment. The authors mention that infection was detected in vitreous fluid but not in serum nor in bone marrow. Were they other sites tested that would help to better understand the protozoan infection pathogenesis (acquisition/reactivation)? The authors mention that the patient successfully completed phase 3 plerixafor and filgrastim-based clinical trial. It will be thus beneficial for a better understanding of the patient treatment and outcome, to indicate when the patient was enrolled into this trial with regard to the T. gondii 4 year-treatment and, if appropriate, whether any follow up of the infection and responses toward it (e.g. serum Ig) was performed in the course of this trial. I s sufficient discussion included of the importance of the findings and their relevance to future understanding of disease processes, diagnosis or treatment? As emphasized by David McDermott and colleagues, protozoan infections are rare in primary immunodeficiency disorders and this is first example of such infection in the context of the WHIM syndrome. Authors provide interesting hypotheses that might account for the clinical manifestations of Toxoplasma gondii infection and pathogenic mechanisms. I would recommend them to add recent literature regarding the potential role of CXCR4 in the life cycle of other members of the phylum Apicomplexa ( Plasmodium) assessed in rodent models 1 . For other parasites such as helminths ( e.g. L. sigmodontis) analyzed in rodent models of infection, neutrophils (and their control by a CXCR4/CXCL12 dependent mechanism) were proposed to be critical elements of the host innate protective response 2 . I s the case presented with sufficient detail to be useful for other practitioners? The report of this singular case is of great interest for scientists and clinicians working in the field and certainly very useful for practitioners not well aware of the syndrome. 