 Abstract - Kitchen waste might be a possible raw material for bioethanol production for clean technology according to the research result but it cannot be concluded as excellent source. Authors need to upgrade this view for the abstract (conclusion section). Introduction - Please provide a brief description regarding the necessity of biofuel and bioethanol application in the beginning. - You may describe the common reactions what may take place for ethanol production from biomass and the role of microbes. - I suggest splitting first paragraph into 2 paragraphs and describing specific issues for each instead of mixing up. Methods - Ok. Result and Discussion - Did you isolate yeast from local resources due to economic purpose? If so, please mention it. - Sometimes fermentation might be effective after 48 hours (e.g. 72hr or 96hr). Please explain why this study have not tried upto 96 hr or above. Do your have any recommendation to do so in future? - Usually supplement addition (e.g. MgSO 4 ) enhances fermentation process and increases overall bioethanol production. May you please elaborate why this study has not applied any nutritional component? - In discussion section, authors cited ‘Teramoto et al. (2005) demonstrated that members of Saccharomyces spp. can tolerate ethanol concentrations of up to 16.5%’ which is from 2005. Many studies have been performed with Saccharomyces spp. after 2005 what proved more than 50% bioethanol production. For instance, I suggest authors to check (Sugar and Bioethanol Production from Oil Palm Trunk (OPT) by Nazia Hossain Rafidah Jalil). - Please provide few examples of comparative studies and compare your results with others since vegetable and fruits peels are very common sources of bioethanol generation worldwide. Conclusion - The study result showed little amount of bioethanol production rate what is not favourable for economical view but environmental. So authors simply cannot assume that this procedure may be used for large-scale application without any specific modification or upgrade. In that case, author might recommend some factors to accelerate the production rate before scale-up. - I answered ‘Partly’ to the question ‘Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results?’ because limitations are not mentioned in the conclusions. Overall - Bioethanol is more appropriate than ethanol (In Title). - Grammar needs to be re-checked. - Many poorly structured sentences were being visible in the whole manuscript. Therefore, overall english should be improved. - I answered ‘Partly’ to the question ‘Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature?’ as authors cited lot of old references while many upgraded experiments have been performed later on. I suggest authors to use references after 2000 only (especially for discussion part). 