The authors have produced a nice tool (TargetMine) that can be used for prioritizing targets for drug discovery. They have done this by integrating data from a range of other resources that have the potential to identify the relevance of targets for diseases of interest as well as the likelihood that a small molecule can be found for that target (tractability). The authors have also provided all the code in the form of a github repository and the data model for TargetMine is shown in the article. They describe adequately how to use the resource with the aid of a couple of specific use cases that they work through in the article. I have followed through the first example and can obtain the same results as they do. The 2 nd example starts from a series of PubMed articles so is less easy to reproduce oneself although the logic is sensible. TargetMine also has links to tutorials that can be used to guide a user through using the resource although I haven’t tried these. In the introduction the authors mention not just using genetic data to assess the relevance of targets to disease but additional information such as pathway analysis although this isn’t exemplified in their use cases; perhaps their use cases could be expanded to include this? In the 2 nd use case it would be good to describe at the start why they were prioritizing targets which had no reported inhibitors with IC50s 100nM. I assume this was because they were looking for novelty but this is not explained. To me the 15 targets at the centre of the Venn diagram (figure 5) would also be relevant and tractable targets. I think it would be useful to be able to link back to the source databases that the information comes from. For example, when I select a UniProt ID I would expect to link back to UniProt itself. Likewise, it would be good to be able to link back to PDB where you can view the 3D structure of the protein. I couldn’t find a way of doing this. As the authors mention in their conclusion the Open Targets Platform has also recently started to use the DrugEBIlity algorithms. The authors might be interested to know that this is not currently being further updated and will soon be replaced with an alternative tractability prediction method that will also be free and openly available. A minor but important point: the authors use the words “Ensembl” and “ensemble” to refer to the ensemble of prediction models that are used as one of the measures of tractability. “Ensemble” is the correct word which is very different from “Ensembl” the genome browser ( https://www.ensembl.org/ ). I think it would be useful if the authors could correct this throughout the article. 