This is a very valuable contribution to the field of palmitoylation. It not only provides a wealth of data for researchers but also thoughtful interpretations. I found the location of cysteine residues in proteins particularly helpful (Fig. 4). Also, the analysis of residues surrounding palmitoylated cysteines is informative, and in essence comes to the same conclusion that I and several others have come to (on a less systematic basis!) that there is no real "consensus" sequence for palmitoylation. This is in contrast to a few papers in the literature which erroneously purport to identify such a consensus. The enrichment of palmitoylated proteins in complexes is interesting and suggests a possible role of fatty acyl moieties in mediating complex formation. The interplay between palmitoylation, phosphorylation, ubiquitination and other PTMs is also nicely highlighted. The only major limitation of the paper and the website I have found is the omission of the MBOAT family of protein acyltransferases. Although only one of these is strictly probably a S-palmitoyltransferase (Hedgehog acyltransferase, Hhat), two members of the family (Porcupine and Ghrelin O-acyltransferase, GOAT) are acyltransferases that transfer fatty acyl groups onto proteins. I think it would be helpful if they could be incorporated, and would make the website more comprehensive for investigators interested in protein acylation in its broadest sense. Admittedly, Hhat is thought by some to be a N -palmitoyltransferase, but it is highly likely that it is a S-palmitoyltransferase and that the modified Hedgehog substrates then undergo spontaneous S-to-N acyl transfer resulting in amide-linked palmitate. Porcupine transfers the closely related fatty acyl group palmitoleate to a serine hydroxyl of Wnt proteins and GOAT transfers an octanoyl group to a serine of ghrelin, so these are not "S-palmitoyltransferases" but they share enough in common as protein fatty acyltransferases to warrant inclusion in the database. A minor point, but Hhat has also recently been identified by Konitsiotis et al. to be palmitoylated ( Konitsiotis et al. , 2015 ) so should be included in the database at the next revision. One minor correction I would suggest - the authors generally use the term "palmitoyl proteome" throughout, which was agreed to be the appropriate term at the second dedicated meeting on protein palmitoylation in Edinburgh last year. However, the less suitable term "palmitome" has slipped through in one place, the heading at the bottom right of page 8.