In this short review, Aruhomukama and co-authors discuss about microbial resistance to antibiotics, in particular to colistin, which seems to be the ‘last resort’ in this era of increasing antibiotic resistance. They start with a brief report on colistin resistance prevalence in Africa, then they describe the evolution of colistin resistance from a chromosomal feature to a plasmid-related threat, and finally they discuss about high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatics as essential tools for monitoring and contain the rise of antimicrobial genes. The review is very brief, so I understand that it is not possible to enter in too many details. Nonetheless, there are topics that need to be better discussed and explained, especially in the last section about HTS and bioinformatics, otherwise they are, in my opinion, of no help for the reader. In the following I list those that are major and minor issues that, to me, the authors should address to improve the quality of the manuscript. Major points: In the abstract, authors mention the search for novel drug targets as one of the topics included in the review, but I found no further information throughout the article. It should be removed from the abstract. In the section “The role of high-throughput sequencing technologies and bioinformatics” there is an extremely vague and imprecise definition of what bioinformatics is. I think this is useless: I suppose that all readers know that there are computer-based algorithms for analyzing genomics data and they would rather benefit from at least a brief description of the main steps that bioinformatics tools perform in applications related to clinical settings. And if there is a gap in the ability of clinicians to use these tools, this should be discussed and the reasons explained, also proposing potential solutions. The section “The future direction of HTS” starts with a very general description of the potential provided by HTS to study the microbial world. I suppose the authors are referring to metagenomics, even if this word is never mentioned. I think that this application should be discussed a little bit more extensively together with its role in the clinical setting. In the same section, the authors talk about SMRT sequencing platform (PacBio), but the features of this platform are not explained, and no other platforms are discussed for comparative reasons. Why talking about PacBio here? Which is the advantage/disadvantage with respect to other platforms? In this form, this section is completely detached from the rest of the article. Conclusions: the authors state that HTS should be applied for the identification and prediction of drug resistance genes using appropriate bioinformatics tools. But these tools have never been mentioned in the article. Which tools? Do they need to do? Moreover, they claim that computational algorithms can be applied for developing therapeutic interventions and target drug resistance mutations. Let’s say that this is true, but it is not described in the article so I don’t understand how this can be a conclusion of the paper. Minor issues: There are some couples of words that are not separated by a white space throughout the text. “Withbacteria”, page 4, first columns, line18. “phenotypicantibiotic”, page 5, first column, line 5 from the bottom. Some sentences need to be rephrased for more clarity: “These enzymes have in recent…”, page 4, second columns, line 3. “Also, worth noting is…”, page 4, second column, last 3 lines. “Furthermore, these have also…”, page 5, second column, line 6. “Currently studies” current studies (page 4, first column, halfway) “it is rapidly replacing … in the near future” it is going to replace? “Bioinformatics … usually with the assistance of computer based algorithms” why usually? 