This review by Prof. Pierce is an excellent and timely piece of work. I think the author is to be commended for this panoramic perspective on the current state of the art in the open source field of mechanical ventilators for acute respiratory failure. In addition to subscribing to Prof. Bowman's extensive comments, I would particularly like to emphasize how important it is that open access contributions regarding medical devices be made in the context of multidisciplinary cooperation between professionals from different fields. In fact, unlike many other open access development areas, where the proposed devices or products can be used by a wide variety of users, medical devices focus on very specific end users: the doctors responsible for diagnosing and treating the patients. Therefore, any proposal for open access in medical devices must be not only technically sound and cost-effective, but, most importantly, safe and clinically applicable in real-life clinical routine. Consequently, as clearly stated in Professor Pierce's paper, realistically testing new developments is a critical step. Unfortunately, it is not unusual for some new open access contributions for medical applications to be the result of developments by authors drawn exclusively from the technological field, with the result that the proposed devices exhibit applicability limitations that seem obvious to clinicians who are potential users. Therefore, to advance the extension of the open access approach, it is important to make an effort to actively involve health professionals for both design and testing, trying to publish contributions in medical journals, not only in publications focused exclusively on open access. A very recent work, exactly in the field of developing open access mechanical ventilators for resource-poor areas, shows an example of a team of professionals covering the fields of biomedical engineering, respiratory physiology, physiotherapy and respiratory clinical medicine 1 . This multidisciplinary team has conceived, developed and tested a novel non-invasive pressure support ventilator following the conventional method of evaluating ventilators (bench tests in simulated patients and preclinical evaluation in volunteers) and has published the results in a prestigious journal of pneumology. To end my review of Prof. Pierce's excellent work, I would mention an open ethical issue about the requirements for medical devices to be used in resource-poor areas. It is important that these devices have the same high standard level as those approved for use in developed countries (e.g. CE / FDA marks). But it is also important that until the industry can provide such medical devices at affordable prices for LMICs, patients are not deprived of life-saving therapies. Finding a balance on this ethical-legal issue is difficult but fundamental. 