BAT: Bisulphite analysis toolkit is a timely software which provides an end-to-end solution for performing DNA methylation analysis. The toolkit follows "good software practises" and has a clearly laid out work flows, efficient code , extensive documentation and has limited dependencies. Further, ability to perform the complete analysis from sequencing data to actual interpretation and integration of data as shown in the example data in the toolkit from the manuscript by the same authors "DNA methylome analysis in Burkitt and follicular lymphomas identifies differentially methylated regions linked to somatic mutation and transcriptional control" 1 suggests that the method implemented in the toolkit for calling differentially methylated regions (DMRs) is not only much faster than existing solutions but also extracts biologically relevant information about methylation. I outline my reasons below : Is the rationale for developing the new software tool clearly explained? The rationale for developing the software well explained as sequencing data especially bisulphite sequencing data are prone to human errors and increasing number of samples being processed for cohorts tackling complex disease phenotypes warrant for a streamlined reproducible workflows. Also the ease of use is a term often loosely used for many bioinformatics tools are under-appreciated by the community but the authors have done well here by providing a docker image that obviates any platform dependencies to provide an out of the box solution. Suggestion: As a rationale it would would great if the authors could add a few lines on their method of calculating DMRs in the introduction to contrast with existing tools, I believe this would enhance the manuscript and further convince the readers to use this tool-kit. Is the description of the software tool technically sound? Software documentation is thorough and technically sound. Moreover, Dr. Hoffmann's lab has been quite consistent in releasing regular updates for their previous tools and is responsive to bug-reports. Suggestion: It is accurate that segemehl requires 55GB to align the entire human genome but it would be important to also point out that alignment could be run on individual chromosomes separately and then combined later which significantly reduces this memory intensive step. Are sufficient details of the code, methods and analysis (if applicable) provided to allow replication of the software development and its use by others? The workflows are well laid out and broken down into the individual modules establishing a replicable software design. Each module can be run individually or together through the perl wrapper and come with appropriate description of flags used in the command line help allowing a look under the hood of the code. Further, each tool is well documented and the code is commented making the tool reproducible. Is sufficient information provided to allow interpretation of the expected output datasets and any results generated using the tool? The example provided herewith runs well and one can quickly reproduce the plots from Kretzmer et al 2015 1 . 