 Review of Gudbrandsson et al . The developmental transcriptome of contrasting Arctic charr ( Salvelinus alpinus ) morphs. The work is founded on the solid premise that rapidly evolving phenotypes in nature can be underpinned by changes at the transcriptome level. The model system here is Arctic charr populations that have evolved (since the last ice age) major differences in phenotypes along the - axis, with strong differences in head morphology linked to feeding specializations. The work provides an extensive analysis of transcriptome and genetic differences between different morphs and populations. It is interesting, generally well-written and has merit on many levels. It is also rather hard going, since so much ground is covered on diverse areas. The study also comes with a large number of caveats, of which the authors are undoubtedly aware. Overall though, I am supportive of this work, as it represents one of the most detailed analyses of molecular mechanisms linked to rapid phenotypic evolution in Arctic charr. I see it as a great start point for future work and a source of several new findings and hypotheses. I suggest that the paper be indexed in F1000 Research as long as its caveats are transparent and the authors address my comments. I list below a number of suggestions that may help the authors improve the work, or that at least highlight study limitations for the benefit of interested readers. I also provide a number of minor comments and suggestions, which should help improve the manuscript more incrementally. Main comments caveats RNAseq study design. I sympathize with the fact that the authors are trying to publish Illumina data that was generated in 2009, since (obviously) the technology has moved on greatly in the last 6 years, while its costs have been reduced dramatically. Adding to this is the fact that the authors are using a particularly complex transcriptome in terms of high content of similar paralogues (and expressed transposable elements), without a reference sequence for mapping in their species. I accept the authors argument that it is more sensible to map against a closely related species with the sequence data rather than to try and create a de novo assembly from 36bp reads. I also believe it is sensible to pool read counts for putative paralogous contigs in this study, since the short read length ablates any ability to separate paralogous differences in expression (yet does not preclude the generation of useful hypotheses about putative gene expression differences among morphs). However, I do question whether the use of Atlantic salmon EST contigs is the best approach here. Firstly, reference assemblies for both Atlantic salmon and rainbow trout are now available, which distinguish paralogous variation. More importantly, using these reference genome data would provide certainty that reads are being mapped to exons from single genes, whereas many of the ESTs will provide a fragmented representation of exon sequences, presumably relying on annotation to piece them back into post hoc . In addition, paired 100bp Ilumina reads are available at high coverage for Arctic charr (e.g. Norman et al . 2014), which could also be used to generate a specific reference transcriptome to map against in this study, although this might be underrepresented in terms of developmental genes as it is a gill study. Overall, I do wonder how much more information might have been gleaned from this dataset with a different mapping strategy? With all the above said, I understand that the authors have built up a large study based around the original mapping to the salmon ESTs and that it would not be routine for them to repeat the study using better reference data. Furthermore, the approach used has definitely led to the generation of several valid hypotheses concerning the nature of gene expression and genetic differences among charr morphs, which have been followed up using independent approaches. Methods Biological Replication in RNAseq a general comment: obviously the design of the study is not optimal because biological variation within developmental stages is not considered in the statistics. Thus, the approach lacks power to detect differences when morph variation is restricted to different developmental stages. I wanted to explain my opinion (for the record) that the study design is nonetheless useful for identifying constitutive differences between morphs. This is especially true because gene expression variability is likely to be relatively low in embryonic stages (compared to a similar study design in adults at least). Further, the pooling of individuals will have helped to at least recapture some biological variation at different stages. Thus, as mentioned above, I see the authors use of RNAseq as a hypothesis-generating approach, which has been quite fruitful in identifying putative differences between different morphs. Methods QPCR study design. The authors adhere to the MIQE guidelines, but do not always follow the best approaches. Most pertinently, the authors use the 2 ∆∆Ct method (assuming PCR efficiency of 2.0) despite having gone to the effort of gaining and reporting efficiencies for each assay, which can be as low as 1.72 for some genes. The effect of failing to incorporate differences in efficiency are highly established and this is likely to have affected the authors results. The authors should consider incorporating the effect of differences in efficiency into their analyses. This is likely to have some impact on the study conclusions in my opinion. Methods Polymorphisms in charr transcriptome. While this is not exactly my area of expertise, I struggled to understand the methods behind filtering paralogous variants from SNPs in the data. The authors state As the SNP analysis was done on individual contigs, differences among paralogs appear in the data. However, since each sample is a pool of few individuals, it is very unlikely that we have the same frequency of true SNPs in the samples. This property was used to remove variants that are most likely due to expressed paralogs . Can the authors please try to re-explain this in even simpler terms to help me get it? I dont see how this description leads to a robust identification of paralogous variation. Is there an underlying assumption of equal expression among paralogues? If so, this is likely to be routinely invalidated. Methods Verification of candidate SNPs. While it is good that the authors have attempted to verify SNPs identified from their RNAseq data, I dont believe the data is particularly well incorporated in the results section. It needs to be stated up front the extent to which the SNPs predicted from the RNAseq were independently verified. Also, the methods for this section can be improved, especially we conducted genomic comparisons of the Salmon genome, ESTs and short contigs from the preliminary assembly of the Arctic charr transcriptome . None of this information is elaborated on what is the preliminary assembly of the Arctic charr transcriptome? Which version of the salmon genome was used and how? Moreover, it would be useful to actually explain in the methods that the genotyping was done on a small number of SB, PL and PI morphs, rather than relying on the reader to extract all the required information from Table S2. I guess overall, the way this section is incorporated into the manuscript needs some thought in terms of improving the readers experience. I struggled after reading it several times and am still not sure I have all the information I need. Results . Analyses of those reads require an Arctic charr genome sequence or transcriptome assembly from longer and paired end reads . As mentioned already, the latter is available to generate an Arctic charr transcriptome assembly to map against. Results ; Figure 3 and 4. The authors found that around half the genes studied were not differentially expressed among morphs by qPCR. Obviously this is quite a large number, but on closer inspection, I noticed that Ndub6 , Ubl5 and parp6 were not even differentially expressed according to RNAseq. Thus, I am confused at the selection of genes from the RNAseq analysis for verification by qPCR. The authors should explain this selection more transparently and provide clearer indices of the correlation between RNAseq and qPCR results and associated discussion. Minor comments, typos and suggested changes Abstract: Species and populations with parallel evolution of specific traits can help illuminate how predictable adaptations and divergence are at the molecular and developmental level . Grammatically his reads better: .. can help illuminate the predictability of adaptations and divergence at the molecular and developmental level Introduction: Examples of such a species complex are the finches of the Galapagos islands, cichlids in the African great lakes are exciting multi-species systems in this respect . Grammatically reads better: Examples of such species complexes are provided by finches of the Galapagos islands, while cichlids of the African great lakes also provide an exciting multi-species system in the same respect Introduction: Some northern freshwater fish species exhibit frequent parallelism in trophic structures and life history and in several cases are they found as distinct resource morphs change to . are found as distinct resource morphs Introduction: in the development of ecological differences in tropic morphology change to trophic morphology . Introduction: The family is estimated to be between 63.2 and 58.1 million years old . This information is not correct it is correct to state that the age of the salmonid crown (based on the cited paper; different estimates exist in the literature, e.g. Macqueen and Johnston, 2014; Campbell et al . 2013 ) is estimated at 63.2 and 58.1 million years old, but the family dates back much further to the origin of the WGD event in fact, which occurred more like 88-103 Ma (Macqueen and Johnston, 2014; Berthelot et al . 2014). Thus, the last common ancestor to extant salmonid species is what the authors are actually referring to in this sentence. Introduction: Furthermore, for data with short reads, mapping to a related reference genome/transcriptome is recommended over de novo assembly . While this sentence is technically correct in the context of the work cited, I feel it is being used slightly out of context. For a start, what comprises a short read is undefined. 36bp is short, but it is possible to get a sold reference transcriptome using 2*100bp, assuming the appropriate diversity of transcripts is represented and suitable depth is attained. Introduction: nuclear genes, reveled both subtle change to nuclear genes, revealed both subtle Minor comment AC, PL, LB and SB were already defined in introduction. Methods: Fishing in Lake Thingvallavatn was with permissions changed to Fishing in Lake Thingvallavatn was done with permissions . Methods: of differently expressed genes, we preformed clustering analyses change to we performed clustering analyses Results: The most drastic changes were seen in processes related to glycolysis (GO:0006096, FDR = 0.0009), were the expression of 19 out of 25 genes change to . where the expression . Figure 7. What does the charr_WT vs. charr_M signify in the alignment data? Discussion We are interested in how predictable evolution is a the molecular level and if there certain principles influence the rewiring of developmental and regulatory systems during evolution consider changing to We are interested in the predictability of evolution at the molecular level, especially whether there exist principles that influence the rewiring of developmental and regulatory systems . Discussion. Recent rainbow trout data shows most paralogs from the latest whole genome duplication event retain the same expression pattern 32 indicating that this scenario is probably uncommon; hence it is of considerable interest when two paralogs show distinct expression patterns. I do not agree that it is of considerable interest when two paralogs show distinct expression patterns I could list tens of examples for salmonids. Conclusions The results suggest genetic and expression changes in multiple systems relate to divergence among populations . Change to associated with divergence among populations . 