 Question 1: Is the background of the case’s history and progression described in sufficient detail? David H. McDermott et al report the first advanced ocular toxoplasmosis complication in WHIM syndrome. The case is interesting because the patient exemplifies widely known aspects of the disease, demonstrating classic features of WHIM syndrome, while at the same time manifests aspects of the syndrome which clinicians unfamiliar with the disease may not be aware of such as biological combined immune deficiency or a history of Tetralogy of Fallot (Raffaele Badolato, J Pediatr. 2012) 1 . Importantly, this case exemplifies that manifestations reported in the acronym “W.H.I.M” (Warts, Hypogammaglobulinemia, Infections and Myelokathexis) insufficiently describe the disease and may even be misleading. Indeed, while the patient clearly presents three of the manifestations emphasized in the acronym 1) Warts 2) a history of recurrent upper and lower respiratory tract Infections and 3) Myelokathexis, the patient does not show biologically defined hypogammaglobulinemia. However, while his IgG levels are in the normal range (according to Table 1), his clinical presentation with repeated respiratory and ENT infections are typical of patients with hypogammaglobulinemia. Furthermore, in the discussion section, the authors suggest that the patient appears to have a qualitative humoral defect. This case clearly demonstrates that the spectrum of WHIM syndrome manifestations range well-beyond the acronym. Importantly, the reader will appreciate that the patient’s labs are compatible with combined immunodeficiency: CD4+ T cells 365, CD19+ B cells 11 [per microliter] and very low naive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. We can conclude that the authors have given an accurate description of a typical WHIM patient ( CXCR4R334X ) who presents not only well-known manifestations of the disease (neutropenia, warts) as well as lesser known (Tetralogy of Fallot, combined immune deficiency) hallmarks of the disease. This detailed report will greatly help clinicians better apprehend and recognize this complex syndrome in their own patient population. Question 2: Are enough details provided of any physical examination and diagnostic tests, treatment given and outcomes? The authors describe in detail the challenging diagnosis of toxoplasmic optic neuritis. As a reader, we understand the medical thought-process which led to the diagnosis. Due to the neutropenia, the patient did not initially show strong clinical findings of ocular toxoplasmosis. However, Filgrastim administration unmasked vitritis which is a prominent feature of ocular toxoplasmosis. The diagnosis was then confirmed by PCR testing which was positive for T. gondii in vitreous fluid. The patient received standard management of toxoplasmosis-associated optic neuropathy as he was treated with oral pyrimethamine (75 mg loading dose then 25 mg/day), leucovorin (7.5 mg/day), and sulfadiazine (1500 mg 2x/day) for six weeks (Rim Kahloun et al , Eye Brain. 2015) 2 . Optic neuritis remains an unusual presentation of ocular Toxoplasmosis that is associated with worse visual outcome. This is clearly shown during the prolonged follow-up of the patient who sustains findings of fibrotic and atrophic macula without signs of active exudative lesions. Question 3: Is sufficient discussion included of the importance of the findings and their relevance to future understanding of disease processes, diagnosis or treatment? The authors are well aware that rare monogenic diseases such as WHIM syndrome offer a unique window of insight into the role of the CXCR4 pathway in health and disease. In their discussion, the authors offer a brief explanation of the possible pathophysiology of the appearance of toxoplasmic optic neuritis in this WHIM patient. They suggest that he presents with both impaired humoral immunity and defective cell-mediated immunity. In particular, they address the question of a defective IFN-gamma and/or IL-12 pathway in this disease. As of today, there is not a sufficient amount of work in the literature to address this question properly, nevertheless it may have been interesting to cite previous studies such as the work of Laura Tassone et al (Blood 2010) 3 which suggested that mature DCs from WHIM patients produce normal amounts of interleukin-12 (p70) compared with the cells derived from healthy donors or the work of Marinos Kallikourdis et al (blood 2013- figure 5c) 4 in which she shows that IFN-gamma production is not different between CD4 + T cells from a healthy donor or a WHIM patient (G336X) activated by anti-CD3– and anti-CD28–coated beads. Clearly, the questions raised by the authors are pertinent and underline the importance of further studies to better characterize the defects in this pathway. Question 4: Is the case presented with sufficient detail to be useful for other practitioners? WHIM is often classified as a severe congenital neutropenia, which may be misleading to clinicians unfamiliar with the disease. Therefore, this case will be very useful to clinicians involved in the care of patients with WHIM syndrome. This report will remind clinicians that they should keep a high degree of suspicion at all times as it is possible that their WHIM patients may present with unusual infections classically seen in patients with severe T cell immunodeficiency. Minor Changes to be addressed: Table 1: lines for both NK and NK-T are duplicated. Patient does not have IgG hypogammaglobulinemia according to reference ranges in table 1. This should be stated in the text. It could be useful to bold the values with are outside of the normal range in table 1. 