Gillessen et al. presents a simple assay to measure DNA binding activity of CLOCK-BMAL1 heterodimers, the major transcriptional activators of clock-regulated genes in animals. They show that the Clock Protein-DNA Binding Assay (CPDBA) can recapitulate CLOCK-BMAL1 DNA binding rhythms from tissue nuclear extracts, detect less than 2-fold differences, and can be used as an alternative to approaches including ChIP-qPCR and gel-shift (EMSA). As opposed to ChIP-qPCR and EMSA, CPDBA may be more amenable to automation and/or high throughput screening of mutations or chemicals to modulate CLOCK-BMAL1 DNA binding activity. I applaud them for going one step further by confirming the functionality of their assay in the context of reconstituted chromatin (mononucleosomes). Overall, this is an excellent and efficient tool, and should not be too difficult for chronobiology colleagues to adopt, especially compared to ChIP and EMSA. I, for one, am excited to try it out. Specific comments that the authors should address are detailed below. Most of them are minor. The authors emphasize on a number of occasions that crude tissue extracts can serve as input for the CPDBA (e.g. in the Abstract). In most of the experiments, nuclear extracts as opposed to whole cell extracts were used. Obviously CLOCK-BMAL1 DNA binding takes place in the nucleus, and tissue nuclear extracts will likely produce the cleanest results. Have the authors compare the results of CPDBA using whole cell extracts vs. nuclear extracts? Is it necessary to perform fractionation to collect nuclear extracts for CPDBA. If yes, perhaps the authors should include this recommendation. In the Abstract, the authors mention the assay uses less than 10 microliters or less of crude extract. Perhaps they should specify the protein amount instead of volume. They do state in the Discussion that they assume 1 microliter equals roughly 1microgram (for their extract), but maybe they need to clarify that in the Abstract. The CLOCK-centered Introduction is clear, concise, and well-written, highlighting the importance of studying CLOCK-BMAL1 interaction to DNA in the context of mammalian clock. The authors should consider adding a paragraph discussing factors/modifications that are known to affect DNA binding activity of CLOCK-BMAL1. CPDBA uses HRP conjugated secondary antibodies and chemiluminescent detection. Have the authors consider the use of fluorescent-labeled antibodies and multiplexing? Would fluorescent-labeled antibodies be more quantitative than chemiluminescent detection, and present less problems with signal saturation? The mobility shift the authors intend to show in Figure 3A (and 3D) in cell extracts that are untreated and treated with lambda phosphatase is not obvious at all. Are the authors expecting a significant shift in mobility shift? The authors could try using phostag gel to accentuate the shift. In the section for “Oligonucleotides”, the authors need to add “Biotin” to the first and third primers, just as they did for the mononucleosome assembly primers. Can the authors explain the discrepancies in Y-axis values (DNA binding activity) for Figure 2B vs 2C? The difference in CLOCK (Fig. 2B) and BMAL (Fig. 2C) binding can perhaps be explained by the use of different antibodies. But what about the difference between Figure 2C and Figure 1? The values for Figure 2C seems oddly low, given that both figures are using liver nuclear extracts. Since I am interested in the regulation of clock protein function by post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, I would be interested to see the authors discuss the possibility of using phosphospecific antibodies (instead of the polyclonal antibodies they list) to detect if specific isoforms of CLOCK and BMAL1 bind preferentially to DNA. 