 Introduction: No comments. Methods: The authors have to mention if the data was extracted in duplicate or not. If so, who were those authors? If not, why was it not considered? Same applies to risk of bias assessment. "Risk of bias" could be abbreviated as "RoB" when it is used as a term for the first time in the text as the expanded word for the abbreviation RoB, which is mostly stated in the text as a tool, is not found. Risk of bias table should have quotes or relevant statements from the article to justify the risk judgement. It is not clear what measures were adopted to address any disagreement among the authors while following methodology such as data extraction and risk of bias assessment. It is not clear why the randomized clinical trial (RCT) filter was not used in the search strategy. As there were no restrictions in the language, the authors could have searched in Asian and Latin American databases. The search dates for each database are not clear. It is good practice to grade the quality of evidence. Discussion: Suggested grammatical corrections: Page no. 7, Paragraph no. 1, Sentence line no. 12: - Stated as: post-operative pain, flare-up incidence, clinical and radiographic healing. - Suggested correction: post-operative pain, flare-up incidence, and clinical and radiographic healing. Page no. 7, Paragraph no. 6, Sentence line no. 4: - Stated as: assessment 15,16 , which, if they were available, might have… - Suggested correction: assessment 15,16 , which if were available, might have… Page no. 7, Paragraph no. 7, Sentence line no. 4-6: - Stated as: The number of randomized clinical studies assessing triple antibiotic paste effectiveness as an intra-canal medication is few. - Suggested correction: The number of randomized clinical studies assessing triple antibiotic paste effectiveness as an intra-canal medication is less. Note: Since the answer is "Partly" to the 2nd evaluation criteria in the peer review form i.e. “Are sufficient details of the methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others?”, the following suggestions are recommended to the authors: Need for data extraction and risk of bias assessment in duplicate. Provide quotes or relevant statements from the article to justify the risk judgement in the risk of bias table. State clearly measures adopted to address any disagreement among the authors during data extraction and risk of bias assessment. Use randomized clinical trial (RCT) filter in the search strategy. Further search for articles in Asian and Latin American databases. State the search dates for each database. Specify the grade of the quality of evidence. 