I review Kell et als review relating to individuality, phenotypic differentiation, dormancy and as a clinical microbiologist, infectious diseases doctor, with an interest in developing and assessing the impact of rapid sequence-based molecular blood and lung diagnostics in the critically ill. This review reminded me of Mussorskys Pictures at an Exhibition, a collection of hastily composed pieces whose theme was to take an interested individual through an art gallery, and to tarry awhile in front of 10 Tableaux , interspersed with musical elements referring to the through the gallery. And so it is with Kell et als review. After an introductory Promenade relating to matters of bacterial dormancy and its relationship with just about any other conceivable physical state between life and death, exhaustively referenced together with the thought provoking Postgate- ian concept of the difficulties inherent in differentiating bacterial life from death if you only have an instant in time to measure it we are then presented with several pictures, garlanded for us in extensively referenced detail by the authors. Were mindmaps not enough to capture the readers curiosity as to this magnum opus of a kind, we are invited to walk through Kell et als gallery of mental pictures depicting scenes of the Yet to be Cultured, Those bacteria that arent culturable yet but are certainly not dead, the biological importance of bacterial pheromones, the evils of Iron - thence to the Clinical Microbiology Room of Pictures with a liberal helping of systems biology throughout. I am a proponent of, and believer in, the present and future potential of Nucleic Acid Technology (NAT) for pathogen detection in Clinical microbiology and I use such techniques on a daily basis. When appropriately deployed, it allows me to find those pathogens as drivers for individual clinical cases of infection. Perhaps strangely, this is a relatively new paradigm for most practising clinicians, and one which likely will generate fundamental discoveries highly relevant to human disease, and for all we know as equally important as Helicobacter. That such sequences should be found in blood is hardly surprising, given that human beings have between 10 and 100 times more bacterial cells than their own, living (or persisting, or dormant) on and in them. This groups demonstration of bacteria adhering to red cells (also in red cells) is certainly very intriguing, and such suggested is more expansively dealt with in another publication and prompts far more questions than it answers in a good way. Another obvious question relates to how these adherent bacteria may remain undetected and intact in the presence of numerous moieties central to both innate and acquired immunity (complement and antibody to name but two) as well as escaping phagocytosis in the liver and spleen. It would certainly be interesting to look at red cells in the grave condition of erythrophagocytosis, a condition whose mechanism is in most cases obscure it might even be that adherent bacteria the red cells in these cases. This reader, however, does baulk at the very serious work to be done as regards untangling the mechanistic nature of an with several diseases, and certainly at this stage it would be very unwise to suggest its anything more than that. Further work of this nature should be approached and undertaken with extreme caution and rigor in view of the myriad possible explanations other than causative ones; the Measles vaccine/autism saga comes to mind here. It is likely therefore that such technologies will perforce lift the lid on what might lie beyond the Culturable, and its relationship to human disease. This is explored in Table 3, which represents a tour de force as concerns the sheer volume of references relating to all that appears to associate human Disease and organisms, mostly bacteria. Unfortunately, this Table doesnt work for me. Whilst it will serve me as a unique and accessible resource of information in this space, it is anarchic. Correctly described as Evidence for agents in non-communicable diseases, it lists, in no particular order, and with no apparently critical eye, references 470 to 712 as relevant to the Table subject stated above. This lists breadth as concerns both organisms and clinical diseases is extraordinary; and the literature quoted in a table described as effect of bacterial involvement ranges from unusual cases, to mechanistic assumptions of what LPS might do, to the concept of amongst many others. I was left rather dizzy from the mental exercise needed to constantly adjust to the sheer scale and variation of why a particular organism, or something it produces, might either directly causally relate to a particular disease, or perhaps through the individuals immune response to it; especially now we know how outbred we are as concerns immune responsiveness. This review finishes with an impressive and lyrical chiding for Scientists, whereby those who research this field should wake up from their intellectual slumber, as might and indeed do bacteria. This review is additionally peppered with tantalizing if perhaps sometimes unfounded assumptions, some arguable and some bordering on plain unreasonable. Certainly my eyebrow raising went into overdrive when considering Kells conviction as concerns a Catholic Grand Unifying Theory based around the Evils of Iron, the subject of a previous equally grand Magnum Opus . This review has to be one of the most undisciplined I have read in a long time, on occasions associating seemingly disparate observations and conflating determined facts with clinical issues. Having said this, I should finish by applauding Kell et als review as a thumping good read. Its fast paced, edgy, a real treasure trove of papers for me to read at leisure, and goes way outside the usual, expected and conventional boundaries of style of prose and rigor we normally expect of such scientific publications. And (warts and all, and there are many) it left this reader thinking that there indeed is Life beyond dormancy within the reviews style itself, beyond the doubtless very important but less imaginative run-of-the-mill, tightly written yet dreary Scientific Publication. It is almost as if this review in all its unconventionality were particularly well aligned to the current state of the Art for the Uncultured in Clinical Medicine (bacteria, not Doctors) and its potential to release significant Paradigm shifts. No doubt this reviews readers are made up of those who have the capacity to appreciate Kells latest brand of emergent, imaginative systems biology style of thinking underneath what some might consider a publication of inadequate scientific rigor.