In the manuscript RNAi targeting Caenorhabditis elegans alpha-arrestins marginally affects lifespan Park and co-workers provide largely negative results from lifespan experiments following RNAi knockdown of most of the worm alpha-arrestins. While we welcome the effort to publish negative results, there is one major concern with the experimental approach and several minor concerns with the interpretation of the results that should be addressed before the manuscript is fully accepted for indexing in F1000Research . Major concern: The authors data is almost entirely negative: there were only 4 clones which had a statistically significant effect. The authors attempt to address this concern by providing RNAi data for daf-16, which is known to strongly suppress the lifespan extension of daf-2(e1370) as well as decreasing N2 lifespan. However, the authors must demonstrate that alpha-arrestin RNAi knockdown is functioning. As suggested by the authors, there is some evidence that alpha-arrestins are expressed in neurons which are notoriously refractory to RNAi. The authors must show that they can use RNAi to knockdown alpha-arrestins by QRTPCR analysis. The authors could also address this concern by performing the RNAi in one of the mutant strains in which RNAi works in neurons and report if the lifespan still does not change, as they suggest in the discussion. We believe that providing these data is necessary to correctly interpret the results from the lifespan analyses. Minor concerns: 1. In the text the authors speak broadly of individual arrestins having no role in longevity however the authors only tested 24 of the 29 arrestins in the worm. If the authors had limited themselves to only those clones available in commercial RNAi libraries this would be understandable, however the authors did construct 3 new RNAi feeding constructs. This brings up the question to why the authors did not prepare the remaining 5 constructs. If the authors have reason to exclude those genes from their analysis (ie. they are pseudogenes, not expressed, etc) they should discuss these reasons in the text. Besides, there is the possibility that one of the missing constructs may indeed have major effects on lifespan in C. elegans . 2. The title of the manuscript implies there are more than one result than was observed. The simpler conclusion from the results provided is that individual alpha-arrestin knockdown has no effect of lifespan. This is the fundamental observation of the paper considering that most of them (20 out of 24) had no effect and that 4 of them had such an extremely small effect that it is arguable that the sample size is insufficient to support any conclusion 1 . We understand the authors' motivation to make the manuscript sound more appealing, however, their interpretation is disingenuous, given their results. 3. Because alpha-arrestins share significant sequence homology the authors should make some mention as to the likelihood that RNAi of any one arrestin would have off target effects on other arrestins. The authors could easily address this question experimentally with QRTPCR analysis. This is particularly relevant as one of the main conclusions of the manuscript is that future alpha-arrestin studies should knockdown multiple alpha-arrestins simultaneously. 4. Given that the authors observed the RNAi treated animals for weeks or months (in daf-2) it is surprising that no other behavioral or physical phenotypes from the alpha-arrestin RNAi were observed during the course of the analysis. If the authors truly did not observe any other phenotypes they should state it briefly in the text. 