Thank you for the invitation to review this well-conducted systematic review. The study under review is very interesting for the evidence-based clinical practice guidelines (CPGs)- and for the healthcare quality and safety- research communities. Moreover, I would like to congratulate the authors for this work with some minor comments with the aim of improving the content and message of this distinguished study. Abstract: I recommend replacing the phrase 'results in patients' with ' patient outcomes ' as it is more commonly used in the field of quality and safety in healthcare. Additionally, the authors have used it for the rest of the MS. Introduction: I would recommend adding recent defi nitions of both CPGs and healthcare quality (HCQ) as nowadays clinicians are getting increasingly interested in the fields of evidence-based medicine (EBM) and HCQ either from a research perspective or through engagement in their respective healthcare organizational accreditation. The HCQ definition and description of EB-CPGs are already in the PROSPERO protocol, please include them here as well. Additional relevant studies to cite here: (i) about the relation between EBM and HCQ: Glasziou P, Ogrinc G, Goodman S. Can evidence-based medicine and clinical quality improvement learn from each other?. BMJ Qual Saf . 2011;20 Suppl 1(Suppl_1):i13–i17. doi:10.1136/bmjqs.2010.046524 1 (ii) an earlier similar key review: Grimshaw J, Russell I: Effect of clinical guidelines on medical practice: a systematic review of rigorous evaluations. The Lancet . 1993; 342 (8883): 1317-1322 2 page 3, left column, para 4: '..After an exhaustive.....only two systematic reviews (SRs) ....., but ' these SRs ' did not....' Please add citations for these two references (SRs). '...and international perspective together.' What do you mean by an 'international perspective'; of what; (i.e. of CPGs, of healthcare quality, or of cardiovascular healthcare?), please clarify or re-write. page 3, right column, para 4: Regarding the data extraction modified and translated from the EPOC checklist, was it validated and if not, why the authors felt they did not need to? Additionally, please provide the readers who would be interested in the replication of this research with this tool as an online supplementary here. It was indeed mentioned with a link in the PROSPERO protocol ( https://fs20.formsite.com/mtristan/form41/index.html , attached on Appendix 3) but the link did not work, giving an error! Moreover, I checked the (Extended data) links in the OSF Home but could not retrieve it. Please delete the duplicated sentence; 'We used a standardized digital ..........and analysis'. page 3, right column, para 7: The #87 studies that were planned to be included in another analysis were not mentioned here since the final included were 9 rather than 96 studies. Please elaborate on this in this location. Figure 1. PRISMA flow chart: #87 of studies to include in other ' analyses '. Tables 1 and 2.: the GRADE quality assessments and the explanations for the certainty of evidence were very well conducted and written. Table 1: please, if feasible, replace the question in the GRADE SoF table; '.....the results for cardiopulmonary resuscitation?' with '.....the outcomes for cardiopulmonary resuscitation?' page 7, left column para 1: Once more, please replace 'patient results' with ' patient outcomes '. page 7, left column, para4: Discussion: '..However, it still seems that some of these CPGs are...' page 7, right column, para 2: As part of discussing 'multiple strategies to implement the CPGs', I would recommend adding insights and citing these relevant keynote articles that discuss multi-faceted CPGI strategies and their importance: (i) Grol R, Wensing M. Improving patient care: the implementation of change in health care (in Dutch: Implementatie: effective verbetering van de patintenzorg). Amsterdam: Reed Business Education; 2013. (ii) Kastner M, Bhattacharyya O, Hayden L, et al. Guideline uptake is influenced by six implementability domains for creating and communicating guidelines: a realist review. J Clin Epidemiol. 2015;68(5):498–509. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2014.12.013. 3 (iii) Gagliardi A, Brouwers M, Bhattacharyya O, et al. A framework of the desirable features of guideline implementation tools (GItools): Delphi survey and assessment of GItools. Implement Sci. 2014;9:98. doi: 10.1186/s13012-014-0098-8 4 (iv) Gagliardi A, Brouwers M, Palda V, Lemieux-Charles L, Grimshaw J. How can we improve guideline use? A conceptual framework of implementability. Implement Sci. 2011;6:26. doi: 10.1186/1748-5908-6-26. 5 page 7, right column, para 4: '...... as well as on designing implementation strategies adapt every recommendation...' Do you mean "designing implementation strategies AND adapt every recommendation....if so add a comma ',' " or "designing implementation strategies (by) adapting every recommendation". Additionally, I suggest to add: ' ....initiate a pilot implementation of specific recommendation(s) instead of considering implementation of the CPGs as a whole'. page 7, right column, para 5: Implications for practice The initial objective of this review was to strengthen the development programs for CPGs (plural) The results of this review must need to be interpreted with caution. It reads better either (the results of this review must be interpreted with caution.) or (the results of this review need to be interpreted with caution.). 'It is necessary to emphasise that the standard CPG implementation used so...' page 7, right column, para 6: 'For an adequate implementation of a CPG, it is necessary to take into account the possible costs, risks, and benefits Finally, I would like to congratulate the authors once more on this work and invite all interested researchers to conduct similar research using this robust methodology to study the impact of EB-CPG implementation on all different healthcare specialties in addition to their effects on the interdisciplinary workflows and transitions of care between different specialties and services in healthcare. 