This is an interesting investigation studying proteostasis in Podospora during aging. I am not a specialist in Podospora , but can judge the work on aging and the proteolytic systems. I believe that this paper is lacking one substantial part: this is the measurement of activities of the proteolytic systems. Without this it is hard to draw any conclusion. Major points: In the introduction the authors refer to references reporting reduced expression of genes for proteasome subunits and the activity of the proteasome in other aging models. This is true, but the authors should note that the only consistent finding in the literature is a reduced proteasomal activity. Other authors also reported minimal or no changes in proteasomal gene expression, but a reduced activity of the proteasome. Therefore, the measurement of the proteasomal activity is of utmost importance. The conclusion (page 4) that the proteasome has no counteracting adverse effects on cellar proteins is not supported by the data at all, without activity measurement, inhibition of the proteasome and so on. In Fig.2 the authors refer to ..processed protein What is this? The number of translation products produced? How can this be concluded, since the authors just study the steady state level? Another statement on page 5: ..proteasomal degradation should result in a total decomposition of GFp-CL1. In the light of the work of DeMartino/Thomas ( Liu et al. 2003 ), I am not sure, whether this is true under all conditions. The knockout of ATG1 will reduce the macroautophagy process. (Are there alternative pathways in Podospora?) Is in the ATG1 k.o. the proteasome still active? Activities should be measured here, again. The formation of GFP-based aggregates is discussed by the authors. However, also here it is required to show that the proteasomal system is active, since low amounts of protein aggregates might be able to block/inhibit substantial parts of the proteasome. Minor points: In the introduction the authors refer to autophagy as parts of the cell engulfed by a double membrane. This is only true for macroautophagy, not for chaperone-mediated autophagy and microautophagy. I do not know, whether these other forms exist in Podospora , but since the authors in their argumentation are jumping in the whole paper from model to model, this should be corrected. 