The study described in the manuscript is based on data available for association between telomere-length and the disease prognosis in patients with colorectal cancer. The data presented are curated from published studies on the topic. General comments : The idea of the study is to ascertain whether telomere length can be a biomarker of the disease outcome in colorectal cancer. The studies reviewed include those that have measured telomere length in tumor tissues, tumor tissues/adjacent normal tissues or in peripheral leukocytes. The methodology used in the studies included ranged from qPCR to Sothern blotting. And outcomes in those studies, not surprisingly, are not concordant. The reasons for that are multi-fold. One of the prime reasons can be the lack of enough statistical power, which hampers many such studies. The other reasons could be methodological or quality of tissues screened. All those issues should be part of consideration for the discussion in this study. Suggestions : I think in a study of this scope, it is important to provide a context for the potential of telomeres as biomarkers of cancer risk and as outcome predictors. There have been several studies, which have shown association of leukocyte telomere length with increased risk of several cancers 1 . In a majority of cancers, the increased risk has been associated with longer telomeres and in some cancers with shorter telomeres 1 , 2 . And many later studies have used Mendelian randomization to provide genetic basis for such association as barring some exogenous factors, the telomere length is genetically determined 1 , 3 . Similarly, several studies have shown that shorter leukocyte telomeres associate with poor outcome in different cancers 4 . It will give the paper an overall uplift and provide readers the necessary context. And accordingly, the results can be discussed within that context and provide a space to highlight the shortcomings in the studies included in the analysis. It is also pertinent to discuss the methodology. Most of the studies included in the analysis have used quantitative PCR that actually measures a ratio between telomere content and the albumin gene content in a given DNA sample 5 . That method itself has several versions that could impact the results. Two studies have use Southern blot that actually gives the measure of telomere length in kilo-bases. 