The authors have done some changes and modifications to the paper, improving some of the issues raised by the reviewers in their previous version. Particularly relevant are the better descriptions of the data collection and how matrices for the network analysis have been calculated. However, some of the main critical observations raised in my previous review (and many times also pointed out by the other reviewer) still remain unchanged. The paper still lacks solid (and to some extent relevant) research questions. In my first review I pointed to the weakness of the two research questions, which essentially remain the same. Even for answering the proposed questions one wonders why not using more comprehensive approaches. For example, what is the value of knowing whether F1000Prime papers are read by biomedicine readers? Wouldnt it be better to compare these distributions with the overall distribution of readers with other biomedical sources? More comparative analysis could be performed in order to be able to provide more meaningful statements and results. Some of the new explanations also open new questions and may be subject of more explanations and discussion. For example, it seems that the co-occurrence readership matrix is constructed based on the number of readerships determined by the smallest discipline (when a paper is read by users from more than one discipline). Why is this approach selected? Wouldnt other approaches be also feasible? Would the results be substantially different? Have the authors considered the potential limitations of this approach? For example, this choice causes that smaller disciplines (i.e. with less overall users in Mendeley) may appear as more disconnected simply because their values will likely be smaller as compared to the bigger disciplines. I think the authors could have the chance to present a more thorough discussion on the choice of this approach, which could eventually be considered as critical for the future development of this type of analysis. The network results are still not clear to me (see my previous review). What is the value or usefulness of these results? Actually, based on my previous comment, I also wonder now if the linkages with fields like Chemistry or Physics may be just the effect of the bigger size of these communities of readers in Mendeley. In other words, I wonder if this map is just the result of the size effect of the distribution of Mendeley users. I think this issue needs to be (at least) discussed. Other aspects (also from my previous review) include that it is still not clear what is the period of analysis. Have all publications in F1000Prime been considered regardless their year of publication? It is also not clear to me what is the coverage of F1000Prime papers in Mendeley? (Do all F1000Prime papers have readerships in Mendeley?). Have F1000Prime papers with zero readers been excluded from the analysis (particularly for the reporting of the average 54.67 reader counts per paper)? Also the authors claim that the (sub) discipline in Mendeley is self-assigned and not mandatory. Actually, when creating a new account in Mendeley the discipline is mandatory but not the sub-discipline. This makes me wonder if actually the claim that readers (74.94%) assign the sub-discipline of their discipline is correct or of if this label is actually added by default by Mendeley (or if there have been changes in Mendeleys policy for self-reporting users disciplinary background). I guess a more critical view should be considered here. The authors have added in the new version the claim that this study shows that Mendeley data can be used to investigate meaningfully the readership of a set of publications. Im not sure what these uses are. In conclusion, I maintain my previous assessment. Some elements have been improved, but some critical points like a formulation of a relevant research question or a more critical discussion of the methodology chosen are still lacking. They are based on the crossing of two databases (Mendeley F1000Prime) with not clear added value in doing it. In addition, I would like to see a more thorough discussion about the chosen approach for the readership coupling and on the value of the type of analysis of Mendeley communities presented. Somehow these were all points raised by both reviewers in the previous round and to my understanding still remain unanswered in this version. 