This opinion article by Potter et al. presents the provocative hypothesis that targeted stimulation of certain immune populations by the administration of GM-CSF could ameliorate certain neuroinflammatory conditions, such as Alzheimer's or West Nile Virus infection, or pulmonary conditions such as COVID. There are many references drawn together to support this suggestion. However, there is insufficient clarity in the arguments to introduce the subject to readers unfamiliar with the literature. Of largest concern is the casual mixing of very different immunomodulators, without discussion of the various mechanisms of action. The authors discuss steroids, NSAIDS, minocycline, monoclonal antibody therapies, and an experimental therapy called PLX5622 without an adequate introduction to the very different pathways inhibited by these modulators. Additionally, the authors do not always distinguish between the different cell types affected. For instance, they comment that GM-CSF might help COVID by improving the "leukopenia" noted in severe cases. However, it is LYMPHOPENIA that marks the most severe cases of COVID, and systemic GM-CSF administration will not help that at all. In terms of GM-CSF, the authors do not clearly distinguish between the likely different mechanisms of action when GM-CSF is administered systemically vs via inhalation. It is unlikely, for instance, that inhaled GM-CSF stimulates demargination of PMNs to the same extent that subQ does. Finally, the combined discussions of auto-neuro-inflammation (e.g. Alzheimer's), WNV neuroinflammation, and pulmonary inflammation becomes confusing. In short, this article would be vastly improved by separating the topic into multiple subheadings, and addressing one sub-topic (e.g. "Immunomodulators in Alzheimer's," "Immunomodulators in WNV,") at a time. The information is good. The references are solid. The proposal of using GM-CSF therapeutically to modify inflammation is exciting. But the disorganization of this article currently obscures its strengths, and it should be rewritten for clarity. 