This manuscript expands on earlier work (including some by Sourakov, himself (Sourakov, 2017 1 ) that uses heparin sodium sulfate salt to manipulate color pattern development in Lepidoptera. Most of the prior work had been done in a small number of species in the butterfly family Nymphalidae. This manuscript repeats experiments in the butterfly model system Junonia coenia (Nymphalidae) (Serfas and Carroll, 2005 2 ) as controls and compares the results of these experiments to experiments using this technique in additional species of Nymphalid butterflies, as well as species of swallowtail butterflies (family Papilionidae) and of moth species in families Erebidae and Crambidae. While I enjoyed reading the manuscript, there are a number of changes that I would like to suggest to the author: Clarification of abstract: In the methods section of the abstract, the species studied are only listed by their scientific names, while in the results section the species studied are only listed by common name. Consequently, it would be challenging for anyone without an extensive knowledge of lepidopteran nomenclature to easily connect the experimental results with the appropriate species. Suggest replacing the phrase “unusual eyespots” with the phrase “simple eyespots” in the results section of the abstract. Clarification of the introduction: Adding heparin sodium sulfate does not alter the expression of Wnt-family ligands (= production of the Wnt proteins by cells), but instead alters their solubility, diffusion in the intercellural space, and activity (by altering their ability to bind to cell-surface receptors) (Fuerer et al. 2010 3 ). There is more than one Wnt ligand. As reported in (Martin and Reed, 2014 4 ) and as discussed in (Martin and Courtier-Orgogozo, 2017 5 ), there are at least 4 different Wnt ligands that are expressed in the developing butterfly wing during color pattern determination, with wingless (wg) and WntA perhaps being the most important. On the whole, it appears that heparin has a much greater effect on phenoytpes associated with WntA signaling than on phenotypes associated with wg signaling. Clarification of methods: “Different concentrations and volumes of heparin sodium sulfate solution were injected. Concentrations and volumes used were different for each species (according to their size), and were sometimes varied in order to achieve variation in response (Table S1)”. Please provide some sort of rationale for how dosage was adjusted. Also,Table S1 should include scientific names for each species and most importantly, the sample sizes of each and every trial listed in Table S1. Clarification of results and discussion: “Ventrally the same individuals exhibited a reduction in the size of eyespots and the diffusion of some of the wing pattern elements.” Replace “diffusion” (which has clear and specific meaning in chemistry and physics that is not relevant here) with “loss of definition” or similar. Referring to same sentence as RD#1 immediately above as well as the paragraph that begins “The taxonomy of the genus Junonia in the New World…”. The effects of heparin treatment of color pattern strongly resemble some of the diagnostic phenotypes that distinguish the recently identified cryptic taxon Junonia grisea from J. coenia (including the reduction or elimination of orange parafocal elements on dorsal wing surfaces, reduction in size of dorsal forewing eyespots, and loss of definition of wing pattern elements on ventral wing surfaces (Lalonde and Marcus, 2018 6 ). It should also be noted that different New World Junonia taxa, which cannot be distinguished by mitochondrial genotypes are distinguishable from one another by variation at the wingless locus (Borchers and Marcus, 2014 7 ; Gemmell et al. 2014 8 ; Peters and Marcus 2017 9 ; Lalonde and Marcus, 2018 10 ; Lalonde et al. 2018 6 ). It would be interesting indeed if these species-diagnostic color pattern phenotypes were actually caused by the evolution of Wnt ligand sequences and function. “The normally present red spot in the center of the hindwing located on either side of M 3 …may become greatly reduced in heparin-injected individuals…” These red spots in Heraclides cresphontes are homologous to the WntA driven patterns in Nymphalid butterflies (see (Martin and Reed 2014 4 ) and (Koch and Nijhout, 2002 11 ). I would like to see a greater synthesis of the findings of the present work with previous findings from heparin injections in Automeris io (Saturniidae) (Sourakov, 2017 1 ), as well as some consideration of what these injections may actually be doing to the mechanism of Wnt signaling. Wnt ligands not only activate signal transduction though the canonical pathway (involving b-catenin), but also through alternative pathways: JNK, and Ca2+. The activation of different downstream pathways is one possible mechanism by which similar ligands could produce different color pattern outcomes, but which signalling pathways are triggered by each of the Wnt signals on lepidopteran wings is currently unknown (zsu and Monteiro 2017 12 ). I would like to encourage the author to consider these points in his revisions and also to continue his experimental explorations in future work. 