 General Comments Several revisions are noted especially the datasets and the phylogenetic trees. However, the narrative contain sections that needs to be improved for accuracy. Correct abbreviations. For example “EuPathdb” should be “EuPathDB” Specific Comments. Suggested revisions are provided. INTRODUCTION The statement of objectives of the research needs to be clear. “Therefore, in an attempt to identify and characterize targets for novel therapeutics, we report herein an extensive search of folate transporters from pathogen genomes. In addition, we investigated the evolutionary relationship of these transporters in a bid to determine similarities and differences that make them attractive drug targets. The knowledge provided may assist in the design of new antifolates for protozoan parasites.” Suggested Revision: “The objectives of the research reported in this article were to (1) characterize folate transporters encoded in genomes of eukaryotic pathogens; and (2) determine evolutionary relationship of folate transporters in genomes of eukaryotic genomes. These research objectives will help advance the development of effective anti-folate drugs to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with eukaryotic pathogens.” METHODS Divide the methods section according to the two objectives. approximately 200-pathogens Suggested revision: delete “-“. The purpose of the dash is not justified. The folate transporters were classified based on type of transporter, number of transmembrane helix (TMH) and localization (either cell or mitochondrial membrane) of transporter. Gene sequences were obtained in FASTA format for transporter proteins using the sequence download tool on EuPathDB ( http://eupathdb.org/eupathdb/ ). Suggested revision: “The folate transporters were characterized according to type of transporter, number of transmembrane helix (TMH) and localization (either cell or mitochondrial membrane) of transporter. Gene sequences were obtained in FASTA format for transporter proteins using the sequence download tool on EuPathDB ( http://eupathdb.org/eupathdb/ ).” Dataset 1 Dataset 1.Complete list of proteins extracted from Eupthadb and literature search, including their properties. Correct the spelling of EuPathDB. Dataset 2 Actinobacillus is included in Dataset 2. Correct to Ajellomyces since the Strain/Species field is A. capsulatus G186AR. Provide the correct taxonomic lineage (http://www.uniprot.org/taxonomy/5037). Update the abstract, phylogenetic tree and discussion since no bacterial folate transport was characterized in the research. The protein sequence mislabeled clusters with Allomyces. Provide the purpose of the color coding. Label the eukaryotic microbe group according to the higher level classification of all living organisms 1 e.g. fungi, protozoa and chromista. To facilitate secondary analysis of Dataset 2, move legend to another sheet and remove blank rows and blank columns. RESULTS The results section should have subsection headings to help with readability and understanding of the article. Replace “Methodological search” with “Systematic search”. Replace “we came across” with “we observed”. “A good number of the proteins identified had predicted transmembrane helixes with a few having none (Figure 1B).” Specify a quantity or percentage for the “good number”. “Furthermore, a number of the transporters possess signal peptides (Dataset 1), which may be required for targeting to cellular locations. Deciphering the sequence of the targeting signal may indicate its product destination.” How many transporters possess the signal peptide sequence? “We identified these transporters in 28 pathogen species (containing 63 strains) cutting across 12 phyla” Suggested revision: “We obtained information on folate transporters encoded in genomes of 63 eukaryotic microbes consisting of 26 pathogenic genera and two genera of photosynthetic algae closely related to the apicomplexan pathogens. The genera are Ajellomyces, Allomyces , Aspergillus , Chromera , Coccidioides , Crithidia , Cryptococcus , Cryptosporidium , Eimeria , Encephalitozoon , Gibberella , Hammondia , Leishmania , Leptomonas , Mitosporidium , Naegleria , Neosartorya , Neospora , Nosema , Phytophthora , Plasmodium , Pythium , Sarcocystis , Spizellomyces , Theileria , Toxoplasma , Trypanosoma , and Vitrella . DISCUSSION Replace “were identified in the genome of 64 strains” with “were identified in the genomes of 63 strains”. References 1. Ruggiero MA, Gordon DP, Orrell TM, Bailly N, et al.: A higher level classification of all living organisms. PLoS One . 2015; 10 (4): e0119248 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Isokpehi RD. Reviewer Report For: Characterization of potential drug targeting folate transporter proteins from Eukaryotic Pathogens [version 2; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :36 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12807.r24210 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-36/v2#referee-response-24210 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Singh G. Reviewer Report For: Characterization of potential drug targeting folate transporter proteins from Eukaryotic Pathogens [version 2; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :36 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12807.r24209 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-36/v2#referee-response-24209 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 26 Jul 2017 Gajinder Singh , Molecular Medicine Group,  International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), New Delhi, Delhi, India Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12807.r24209 I am disappointed to see that most of the issues identified in the original manuscript remain unaddressed including grammatical mistakes. e.g. The current literature on folate transporters as drug targets has not been discussed, including information on ... Continue reading READ ALL 