The authors present a well-designed, multimodal study on the effect of robotic practice in 13 chronic stroke patients using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), high resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion tensor imaging and resting state BOLD imaging. Investigated variables were motor evoked potentials (MEPs) on the affected side, silent period after TMS of the contralesional motor cortex, fractional anisotropy (FA) of the ipsilesional internal capsule, and functional connectivity of motor cortex in the affected hemisphere using anatomically based regions of interest (ROIs). The main results were that MEPs were associated with better functional outcome, FA of internal capsule was associated with better function at baseline, and BOLD in motor cortex was more correlated with other motor areas after training of which resting connectivity between motor cortex and dorsal premotor cortex predicted recovery. There are some issues that need clarification. Table 1 shows that 6 patients received robot training, while 7 received intensive comparison therapy. At no other instance it is said what intensive comparison treatment is. In fact, the entire manuscript including the title argues for robot training and presents the data as if all patients received robot training. It is not stated if the two treatments resulted in the same or different motor function. Further, a formal comparison of the two groups also concerning the studied variables is lacking. Moreover, patient 1 differed from the other patients as he was the only one with an intracerebral hemorrhage and a subcortical location of the lesion. It should be added how many of the other patients also had subcortical and cortical infarct lesions, respectively. Were the imaging data analyzed in one centre or in the participating centres? Were the ROIs drawn by one of the authors or by different authors? What was the interobserver reliability? How many MRI slices did the ROIs listed in the methods include? What is meant with "predictive values of the MEP measures were approximately equal (page 5)"? Please, be specific and provide the data. The increase of connectivity with the superior parietal area is noteworthy, since this is a brain area with profound somatosensory function. The authors should provide information about the sensory deficits of their patients. Figure 4 should provide information about which patients are presented in parts B and C. 