The article ‘Supramolecular protein-mediated assembly of brain extracellular matrix glycans’ by Tabet et al., describes the self-assembly of glycosaminoglycans hyaluronan (HA) and chondroitin sulfate (CS) in the presence of bovine serum albumin (BSA). The authors report that HA/BSA forms hydrogel upon mixing while CS/BSA forms nano- and micro-particles. The recognition of supramolecular assembly with biological materials has increased our understanding of how biological systems function in the last years. Here, the authors aim to address how HA and CS self-assemble for their function, emphasising on their role in the central nervous system. However, the study appears partial and the hypothesis is not clear. Hypothesis is not clear: Why do you use serum albumin? Serum albumin is not normally present in the brain tissue but confines inside the blood vessels in the brain. The penetration of serum albumin to the brain is protected by the blood-brain barrier. Extravasation of albumin to the brain will only happen in pathological conditions. This means that serum albumin is not the normal contributor to brain extracellular matrix (ECM) glycan assembly. This needs to be stated clearly in the article. Resulting from this, the title is also misleading, because the model described is thus not related to brain ECM. Please define clearly the meaning of ‘supramolecular’ in the article. In both the Abstract and the Introduction, the authors claimed that HA is the ‘only supramolecular glycosaminoglycan’. What do you mean by this? However, in the main text, the authors described CS/albumin interaction as ‘supramolecular interactions’. Please define clearly the meaning of the term. Regarding the CS/albumin interaction, the authors attribute particle formation from mixing CS with serum albumin is due to supramolecular interactions between CS and BSA. How can you rule out that this is not due to phase separation of your materials instead? Are the nano- and micro-particles stable over time? Regarding the model of drug release, the authors used rhodamine by laying it on top of the hydrogel. This is showing diffusion of molecules through the gel, but not the release of rhodamine from the gel. Please correct the terminology accordingly. Regarding the title, please change glycans to glycosaminoglycans. Minor changes: In the abstract, the first sentence: HA is ‘a’ major component of ECM in the CNS, but not “the” major component. CS is present in higher concentration than HA in the CNS, which is also indicated by the analysis reported in Figure 5 in the article. Please correct the sentence. Figure 1: The CS shown in Figure 1A is chondroitin 6-sulfate, while the CS used in the experiment (Sigma C9819) is a chondroitin 4-sulfate. Could you please amend the figure to represent the structure of the CS used? Figure 1: The HA structure is wrong. HA is formed by disaccharide repeats of [GlcNAc-β1,4-GlcA-β1,3]. The figure shows a [GlcNAc-β1,4-GlcA-β1,4] linkage. Please correct this accordingly. Page 4, first paragraph in the result section: ‘CS is covalently scaffolded onto peptide cores (e.g. aggrecan)’. Please change peptide into protein. Aggrecan is a big protein with molecular weight larger than 250 kDa even without the attachment of glycosaminoglycan chains. Figure 3C: what are the three lines in Figure C? Please state clearly, either in the figure or in the legend. Page 5, I assume ‘HA/CS/CS’ systems actually mean ‘HA/CS/BSA’ systems? 