Causality assessment of adverse events following immunization: the problem of multifactorial pathology. In his opinion piece the author has addressed the insufficiencies of the WHO AEFI causality algorithm to appreciate the complexities manner in which vaccines cause harm specifically those which are related to an “excessive or biased inflammatory and immune response” to the vaccine product. He writes from the perspective of a pathologist, specialists which are often involved in cases of compensation claims relating to individual level questions of causality. Of particular concern to the author, as demonstrated in the 3 case examples provided, are questions relating to the role of the vaccine as one of potentially multiple factors responsible for the clinical manifestation of an AEFI. In the words of the author: ”As far as vaccines are concerned, the fact that severe reactions affect only a few individuals suggests in most cases vaccines are not the only cause of the event and further factors are necessary in the development of pathology”. He makes a number of proposals for revisions to the causality algorithm: 1) causality assessment could exclude a consistent association of the adverse event with the vaccine only when the presumed "other cause" is independent of an interaction with the vaccine and 2) the scientific literature should be viewed not as an exclusion criterion but as a comprehensive analysis of all the evidence for or against the role of the vaccine in causing an adverse reaction. Overall, the opinion of the author is agreed. However, I believe that the manuscript would benefit from some acknowledgement or proposal for revision/clarification of the primary target users of the current WHO AEFI algorithm. The WHO AEFI causality assessment was developed by the Vaccines Safety Group at the WHO with the support of the Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety. The target user group for this classification system are persons working in countries in whom vaccines are administered via WHO sponsored public health programmes (largely LMIC). Those persons are largely concerned with the detection of "signals" of changes in frequency of the more common, expected events which could suggest vaccine quality-related problems, immunisation errors, or multi-use vial contamination, etc. A prioritisation of the identification of such AEFI can be understandable to monitor the safety of vaccines for which there is several years of experience and safety surveillance from earlier use in HIC (such as conjugate pneumococcal vaccines, HPV vaccines). Within this framework, the burden of responsibility for surveillance for the rare and unexpected AEFI has fallen to countries (and in fact vaccine manufacturers) with greater resources. In contrast, higher income countries which do not rely upon implementation of vaccine administration through WHO public health programmes will handle reports of AEFI through these national pharmacovigilance centers. As a result, more general guidance is used for causality assessment, such as the WHO-UMC causality criteria and the Naranjo algorithm which developed by various groups working within the greater field of pharmacovigilance. Within such centers adverse event reports for drugs and vaccines are often maintained within a single database (one notable exception being the USA), and causality assessment is approached in a similar way for all products. Within this arrangement, the surveillance systems are better adapted for the detection of the rare and unexpected. I would like the author to reflect on the manner in which AEFI reports are handled in Italy, as it would be expected that vaccine reports originating from that country would be subject to collection, analysis and assessment standards endorsed by the European Medicines Agency. With the increasing likelihood of the need to implement new vaccines directly into lower income settings, the requirement of surveillance systems in these countries to detect the “rare and unexpected” is apparent. The author could address this aspect as a way to emphasize the importance of the revisions proposed. 