Thanks for providing a revised version with substantial improvements including enhanced details and a Gantt Chart, the revised version 1 is an improvement over the original 2 . The authors need to clarify if this protocol if for an ongoing study or the protocol they intend to implement. Once this has been clarified, the text needs to be amended accordingly. Currently, parts are written in the future tense (abstract, methods, most of the article), parts in the past tense (e.g. acknowledgments), and the implementation dates suggest that they study is way underway (2019-2020 School year, Gantt Chart). That some of the recommendations in the earlier review were not addressed also suggests that perhaps they were received after the fact. Given the disruption COVID-19 has brought, including to the school systems in Spain, it makes sense to point out if the implementation is/was affected and how this will affect the protocol. The paragraph entitled “Formulation of the recommendations” needs to be copy edited for clarity and grammar. Congratulations on your protocol for this important study, I wish you success with the prompt publication of the findings, and the implementation and scaling up of the intervention in Barcelona and beyond, as appropriate. Developing effective critical thinking skills from young ages seems increasingly important and I commend the authors for building on existing knowledge to further advance and expand its implementation. Well done! References 1. Martínez García L, Alonso-Coello P, Asso Ministral L, Ballesté-Delpierre C, et al.: Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona. F1000Research . 2020; 8 . Publisher Full Text 2. Martínez García L, Alonso-Coello P, Asso Ministral L, Ballesté-Delpierre C, et al.: Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona. F1000Research . 2019; 8 . Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: The peer reviewer did this review in his personal time and he alone is responsible for the views expressed in this comment. His views do not necessarily represent the decisions or policies of the Pan American Health Organization. Reviewer Expertise: Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Family Medicine, Research for Health, Policies on Research for Health, Health Systems Research, Public Health I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Cuervo LG. Reviewer Report For: Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 8 :2018 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.26302.r63343 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-2018/v2#referee-response-63343 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 09 Jun 2020 Laura Martnez Garca , Iberoamerican Cochrane Centre - Sant Pau Biomedical Research Institute (IIB-Sant Pau), Spain 09 Jun 2020 Author Response Comment 1 - Ongoing study Response 1 We already included the state of the study in the “Study status” section; the text reads: “Figure 2 is a Gantt chart illustrating ... Continue reading Comment 1 - Ongoing study Response 1 We already included the state of the study in the “Study status” section; the text reads: “Figure 2 is a Gantt chart illustrating the schedule of the pilot study. Currently, we have started the intervention in schools with the teachers’ workshop”. We have reviewed the verb tense consistency. According to study status, we wrote the text in the future tense, except the “Introduction”, “Objectives”, and “Acknowledgements” sections. Comment 2 - COVID-19 Response 2 The first version of the “Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona” was published on 28 Nov 2019. We will describe details about adjustments to the COVID19 in the publication of the results of the pilot study. Comment 3 - Formulation of the recommendations Response 3 We have modified the text in the “Methods - Formulation of the recommendations” section according to the suggestion of the reviewers. The text reads: “The IHC-Barcelona Working Group will discuss the most relevant results from the qualitative analysis. They will consensus the potential changes of the IHC resources (dramatic changes, major changes, or minor changes) (Table 4). Finally, they will suggest and agree on recommendations - both for practice and research purposes - on how to use, how to adapt (if needed), and how to implement the IHC resources to this context.” Comment 1 - Ongoing study Response 1 We already included the state of the study in the “Study status” section; the text reads: “Figure 2 is a Gantt chart illustrating the schedule of the pilot study. Currently, we have started the intervention in schools with the teachers’ workshop”. We have reviewed the verb tense consistency. According to study status, we wrote the text in the future tense, except the “Introduction”, “Objectives”, and “Acknowledgements” sections. Comment 2 - COVID-19 Response 2 The first version of the “Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona” was published on 28 Nov 2019. We will describe details about adjustments to the COVID19 in the publication of the results of the pilot study. Comment 3 - Formulation of the recommendations Response 3 We have modified the text in the “Methods - Formulation of the recommendations” section according to the suggestion of the reviewers. The text reads: “The IHC-Barcelona Working Group will discuss the most relevant results from the qualitative analysis. They will consensus the potential changes of the IHC resources (dramatic changes, major changes, or minor changes) (Table 4). Finally, they will suggest and agree on recommendations - both for practice and research purposes - on how to use, how to adapt (if needed), and how to implement the IHC resources to this context.” Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 09 Jun 2020 Laura Martnez Garca , Iberoamerican Cochrane Centre - Sant Pau Biomedical Research Institute (IIB-Sant Pau), Spain 09 Jun 2020 Author Response Comment 1 - Ongoing study Response 1 We already included the state of the study in the “Study status” section; the text reads: “Figure 2 is a Gantt chart illustrating ... Continue reading Comment 1 - Ongoing study Response 1 We already included the state of the study in the “Study status” section; the text reads: “Figure 2 is a Gantt chart illustrating the schedule of the pilot study. Currently, we have started the intervention in schools with the teachers’ workshop”. We have reviewed the verb tense consistency. According to study status, we wrote the text in the future tense, except the “Introduction”, “Objectives”, and “Acknowledgements” sections. Comment 2 - COVID-19 Response 2 The first version of the “Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona” was published on 28 Nov 2019. We will describe details about adjustments to the COVID19 in the publication of the results of the pilot study. Comment 3 - Formulation of the recommendations Response 3 We have modified the text in the “Methods - Formulation of the recommendations” section according to the suggestion of the reviewers. The text reads: “The IHC-Barcelona Working Group will discuss the most relevant results from the qualitative analysis. They will consensus the potential changes of the IHC resources (dramatic changes, major changes, or minor changes) (Table 4). Finally, they will suggest and agree on recommendations - both for practice and research purposes - on how to use, how to adapt (if needed), and how to implement the IHC resources to this context.” Comment 1 - Ongoing study Response 1 We already included the state of the study in the “Study status” section; the text reads: “Figure 2 is a Gantt chart illustrating the schedule of the pilot study. Currently, we have started the intervention in schools with the teachers’ workshop”. We have reviewed the verb tense consistency. According to study status, we wrote the text in the future tense, except the “Introduction”, “Objectives”, and “Acknowledgements” sections. Comment 2 - COVID-19 Response 2 The first version of the “Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona” was published on 28 Nov 2019. We will describe details about adjustments to the COVID19 in the publication of the results of the pilot study. Comment 3 - Formulation of the recommendations Response 3 We have modified the text in the “Methods - Formulation of the recommendations” section according to the suggestion of the reviewers. The text reads: “The IHC-Barcelona Working Group will discuss the most relevant results from the qualitative analysis. They will consensus the potential changes of the IHC resources (dramatic changes, major changes, or minor changes) (Table 4). Finally, they will suggest and agree on recommendations - both for practice and research purposes - on how to use, how to adapt (if needed), and how to implement the IHC resources to this context.” Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 28 Nov 2019 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Cuervo LG and Giraldo-Hoyos S. Reviewer Report For: Learning to make informed health choices: Protocol for a pilot study in schools in Barcelona [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 8 :2018 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.23446.r61277 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-2018/v1#referee-response-61277 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 26 Mar 2020 Luis Gabriel Cuervo , Pan American Health Organization, Washington, DC, USA Sofa Giraldo-Hoyos , Pan American Health Organisation, Washington, DC, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.23446.r61277 We congratulate the authors for developing this protocol for a pilot study to adapt a tested intervention with a lasting effect in education of benefit to children, teachers and families. This is especially important at a time when pseudoscience and ... Continue reading READ ALL 