TFutils is a Bioconductor package meant to help users study TF binding in the human genome. The tool integrates several resources such as Gene Ontology (GO), CISBP, HOCOMOCO, and MSigD (the Molecular Signature Database). The paper describes how to tackle basic problems users are faced with when trying to work with TFs, in particular the TF classification, the gene targets identification, and, ultimately, the prediction of TF binding affinities. This article looks more like a software tutorial than a scientific article. As software has to evolve in order keep up with user needs, the text will have to be updated on a regular basis in the future, in order to remain up-to-data as well. This is fine if F1000Research accepts updates and supports versioning of articles. Otherwise, another format should be chosen for presenting this tool. Just by reading the article, we didn't get a clear impression of what is inside TFutils. Going through the command examples was helpful in this respect. Nevertheless, we have doubts whether we would be able to use this package in a productive manner in the future. The promise that "TFutils lowers the barriers of usage of key findings of TF biology" holds only for expert users of Bioconductor, who are already familiar with all the other packages mentioned in this article and necessary to reproduce the results. The current manuscript has several shortcomings. At a general level, it is not very transparent to the nave reader what is actually new from this package and what functionalities are provided by the many other Bioconductor packages referred to in the text. Fortunately, we found a well-organized reference manual for TFutils version 1.2.0 on the internet, which clarified this issue for us. A URL to this document should have been included in the article. As this is a tutorial-style document, it would be helpful to provide complete R code for reproducing Figures 3 and 4. While Figure 3 is relatively easy to generate, it took us at least half a day to reproduce Figure 4. A major limitation is that the fimo16 object, upon which Figure 3 is based, contains only TF affinity data for 16 out of 689 scanned TF motif matrices. Figure 3 shows the predicted binding sites for 16 TFs in a selected genomic region. Already with such a small number of TFs, the Figure is pretty crowded with dots. One wonders what it would look like if all 689 FIMO-scanned motif matrices were considered. In view of the density of motif matches it seems doubtful whether any biological insights can be gained from such a plot. Some guidance for the interpretation is needed. Figure 4 shows ENCODE binding peaks for CEBPB in the same genomic region that was used for Figure 3. Naturally, we were curious to know whether the peaks seen in this Figures co-localize with corresponding motif matches in Figure 3. Unfortunately, CEBPB is not included in the fimo16 collection. To exemplify the power of the tool, it would have been preferable to choose an example where the reader can crosscheck the consistency between predictions and experiments via comparison of Figure 3 with Figure 4. Overall, our impression is that TFutils is a useful package albeit for a restricted community of users already familiar with the other Bioconductor packages mentioned in the article. However, the manuscript could benefit from major revisions as pointed out above. 