Summary This is a small diagnostic study of a Leishmania antigen ELISA from Bangladesh that explores the variation of antigen load in urine at three different time points over the course of a day. General comment: The overall research question and rationale is of limited scope but sufficiently relevant for publication. However, there are a number of substantial issues that need to be addressed in order to make this research and its reporting scientifically sound. Specific comments: While the authors justify why primary and relapse cases are compared separately, this is not done for age and sex. Unless there are specific reasons to expect clinically relevant differences in outcomes between age and sex for this particular analysis, no formal statistical comparisons with p-values should be done. The authors should either provide a rationale for this subgroup analysis or stick to descriptive comparisons for age and sex. The authors state that “urine collected in the early morning contains urinary components at the highest concentration and is more reliable for quantification of urine markers”. Please refer to the biological rationale behind this phenomenon, and in which other markers this has been observed. If markers in morning urine are considered to be higher than during the day because of urine retention overnight, the factor “time since last urination” becomes important for the 12pm and 4pm measurements in this study. Was this captured? Please add this information if available. In general, the literature search should be updated and more systematic to include the most important relevant recent studies. This is not the case. E.g. four of the five references the authors use to substantiate their statement that “Several studies have demonstrated Leishmania antigens in the urine of VL patients using different approaches, such as countercurrent immunoelectrophoresis, Western blot, latex agglutination test and ELISA” are from 1987, 1995, 2001, and 2002. However, at least two relevant VL antigenuria diagnostic studies have come out in 2018 alone. The sample size of 16 is very small and seems to be a convenience sample. Why was no systematic approach used to ensure representativeness of the sample to the target population? This weakness should be discussed and the study patient characteristics should be compared to the characteristics of the primary/relapse VL patients in the hospital. What was the rationale for including exactly 16 patients? Normally sample size should be prespecified based on estimated parameters. Please justify your sample size decision. HIV status is an important factor associated with antigen expression in urine. Please add this information from your patients if available, and if not please add HIV prevalence estimates from the target population. Time since symptom onset is also very important. Please add this data to Table 1 if available. If this information is not available, please discuss this as a limitation. For relapse patients, how was it established that patients actually had VL? Merely by oral patient history, or through patient treatment charts? If only by asking the patient, please discuss this as a limitation. Table 1 should be improved. Children and adults seem to be mutually exclusive categories, hence one of them can be removed without loss of information. All clinical and lab variables should be clearly defined in the table footnotes. Patients with primary and relapse VL episode should be presented in separate columns. Figure 1 should be improved. A box-whisker plot should be used. It is not clear what the asterixis and horizontal lines refer to. There might be a danger to accidentally de-anonymise your study patients with the data included in Dataset 1. Better remove the following variables: Date of collection, Upazila, District. You refer to Table 1 in the Methods section. However, patient characteristics are part of the results and should be referred to in that section, not earlier. The data of Table 2 should be merged with Dataset 1 to facilitate replication of your analyses. The abstract should include the number of patients included and the time when the study was conducted as well as the place where the study took place. Interquartile ranges should be be added to the median point estimates in the results section. Table 3 should show which statistical test was used for each column. Also show the absolute number of patients in the different strata and columns. The discussion needs substantial reworking: 17.1. The first paragraph of the discussion section should be a succinct summary of the main findings, instead of referring to a test that was not used in this study (KAtex). 17.2. It is not clear why such prominent reference is made to the InBios Antigen Detect ELISA throughout the discussion. It played no role in this particular study. If that test was evaluated in parallel to the presented Kalon ELISA on the same patients, this should be reported together in the same manuscript. Please explain or change. 17.3. Too little reference is made to the existing body of literature. The authors should compare their concrete results to findings from other studies, and discuss how and why their findings might differ. A proper interpretation of the study findings should be presented as well. Keep elaborations about things that are unrelated to your study at a minimum. Instead, the concrete implications of the study findings should be elaborated in more detail. 17.4. Methodological strengths and in particular the weaknesses of the study should be discussed. This part is entirely absent for now. 17.5. Since the sample size was extremely small and probably not representative of the VL patients at that hospital, any conclusions should by default be very cautious. No conclusive findings, can be drawn from this study, and in particular no diagnostic decisions should be taken based on this study. The need for future, properly designed and sufficiently powered studies should be highlighted instead of suggesting that the research question is settled after having conducted this study. Currently the conclusions are too firm and too broad, given the limitations of this research. 