This manuscript describes a very promising approach to expanding the experimental study of color pattern development beyond the select group of model butterfly species that have received the bulk of the attention thus far. The Saturniid moth Automeris io was used for these experimental studies. Also described are A. io specimens derived from breeding experiments and wild-caught specimens with aberrant phenotypes. While I enjoyed reading the manuscript, there are a number of changes that I would like to suggest to the author: Clarification of methods: There are a number of methodological details that should be clarified. “sugarberry”. Please give scientific name. Is this Celtis laevigata ? Staging of pupae. As much detail as possible should be given here about when and how the injections were done relative to the pupal molt. How many hours at what temperature? Was the cuticle sclerotized yet? Where on the experimental specimens’ bodies did the injections take place? Under what conditions were the animals allowed to recover from their injections? What was the manufacturer and purity of the heparin used? For coldshock, how many hours is “overnight”? Control injections: what was the rationale for using manitol? Many experiments pair heparin with chondroitin sulfate B (keratan sulfate) as a negative control because it is structurally similar to heparin, but lacks the biological activity associated with heparin. Overwintering conditions: the author reports that the experimental animals were kept at ambient conditions until emergence the following spring. Were they kept indoors or outdoors? If indoors what was the typical temperature and lighting conditions during this period? If outdoors, try to provide descriptors of climatic conditions during the appropriate period using National Weather Service or other data. Clarification of results: Additional clarification of the results is also required. The author reports that most of the injected individuals did not emerge. How many failed to emerge? Were there any differences in eclosion rate between the heparin injected individuals and the chondroitin sulfate B injected individuals? What was the emergence rate of unmanipulated individuals? Was it different from the emergence rate of cold-shocked individuals? Reinterpretation of Results and Elaboration of Discussion: The author should keep in mind that Lepidopteran color patterns can be altered by manipulation of the developmental processes responsible for determining color patterns as well as by manipulation of the developmental processes responsible for color pattern differentiation. Determination processes might involve cell-cell signaling by signal transduction processes, while differentiation of color patterns involves the expression and regulation of biosynthetic pathways responsible for pigment synthesis. Manipulations such as cold-shock might have effects on both kinds of developmental processes, if they are taking place at the time of the manipulation. Additional references to prior work that examines the effects of coldshock (Nijhout 1984; Serfas and Carroll 2005; Mahdi et al. 2010; Dhungel and Otaki 2013) might be warranted. Everything that we know about the action of heparin suggests that it interacts with signal transduction pathways such as wingless / wnt (Binari et al. 1997) , and there is no evidence that it interacts with melanin pigment biosynthesis. Discussing the experimental results of heparin injection from this study in reference to what is known about wingless/wnt signaling and its effects on color pattern determination in insects (Carroll et al. 1994; Monteiro et al. 2006; Martin and Reed 2010; Werner et al. 2010) would be highly desirable. I also urge the author to extend the discussion further and to connect his work with prior work on Saturniid moth color pattern development including both classic cautery studies (Henke 1933; Henke 1944) and studies of gene expression (Monteiro et al. 2006). Interestingly, the discal eyespots of Automeris io are positioned on top of crossveins, structures that also employ wingless/wnt signaling during their development (Conley et al. 1997; Marcus 2001). Relating eyespot development to underlying crossvein development in Saturniid moths, perhaps through modulation of the wingless/wnt pathway would be a very interesting research trajectory to pursue. Understanding how discal eyespots in some Saturniid moths are both similar to and different from border eyespots in butterflies would be a very interesting avenue for further studies of the evolution and development of Lepidopteran color patterns. I would like to encourage the author to consider these points in his revisions and also to continue his experimental explorations in future work. 