This manuscript describes the process whereby the UK node of ELIXIR identifies and prioritises services for inclusion in the node. It is an important contribution as it is the first time a strategy for service identification and prioritization has been documented for an ELIXIR nodes, and it may be able to be generalized for use by other nodes of the ELIXIR network. It would be good if the authors could comment on the extent to which this approach is generalizable to other nodes, and on whether there are aspects that are unique to the UK node. The authors should clarify early on that the ‘services’ that ELIXIR nodes may offer may include any combination of software, data resources and training. This is implied, but may not be completely clear to readers unfamiliar with ELIXIR. The authors focus primarily on a process to include new services to the UK ELIXIR node. It would be good to add a brief section that discusses long-term evaluation of existing services in order to assess ongoing quality and relevance, and to plan for retirement of services as required. There are places where it is unclear who represents “the Node” eg: “These were initially identified by discussions within the Node” and “Brainstorming by members of the existing node”. It may be useful to explain who is responsible for the Node and decisions taken by “the Node”, and therefore for the strategic prioritization and evaluation. Could the template for EoI be made available for other nodes wishing to follow a similar process? It would be useful to expand briefly on what “Work Package 3 of the EXCELERATE programme ,” is, so that a reader unfamiliar with ELIXIR can understand the relevance. The authors conclude that the process was transparent and fair. Has there been any community-feedback on the process? It would be interesting to know how well-accepted the process has been, and whether there are any suggestions for improvement. It would be useful to include information about the matching of the EoIs received with the strategic priorities that were identified. Were applications received in all priority areas? Are there areas that are not yet represented? How do new services that have been included relate to those that were already existing within the node, and also to services provided by other nodes (and was this a consideration in the evaluation process?) Is there any plan to support service proposals that were assigned to the roadmap for future inclusion? 