 The article Calcium content, in vitro digestibility, and bioaccessibility in leaves of spinach (Spinacia oleracea), sweet potato (Ipomea batatas), and drumstick tree (Moringa oleifera) by Allen et al. concerns important issues of Calcium intake when dairy products are replaced, irrespective of the cause behind the need or desire to the substitution. The findings are valuable for global nutritional security as well as for further research. However, I find numerous ways to improve the publication in its current format. Overall suggestions for improvement: The use of Latin name and common name should be done in a more consistent style throughout the entire article. Latin should preferably be used as the standard throughout the article and for all species/crops in the study. The number of significant digits should also be consistent throughout the article: e.g. 0.99 has two but 1.54 has three. Use of abbreviations: the first time a term is used is should be spelled out and then can be written as an abbreviation in brackets after. In the continued text use the abbreviation only, e.g. HCl is used before the spelled out hydrochloric acid. Specific suggestions for improvement: Abstract The sentence revealing that bioaccessible calcium in sweet potato leaves was a non-significant 1.4 times higher and in Moringa was 9.2 to 19.4 times higher than in spinach. must be clarified. The results provide more information than this and can be summarized in the abstract. Add % after results in second paragraph. Second paragraph: 1.4 times higher than what are you comparing to? Introduction no comments Materials and methods Page 4, line 18: common volume - The authors are advised to give the actual volume here. Title Calculation of calcium bioaccessibility should include digestibility. Keep the order in presentation - e.g. digestibility should be presented first in Calculation of calcium bioaccessibility to follow earlier flow. Page 4, second column: because the atomic absorption spectrophotometer - Clarify this. P value and alfa are mixed throughout the results section, which needs to be either clarified or changed. Results Both starting sentences in the section are misplaced. They would perhaps be better off in the materials and methods section? Table 1: hyperlinks (and explanations?) are missing for indications d and e. Results need not be repeated in result text if already presented in tables. Results need not to be repeated in the discussion. Discussion Soil chemistry is reflected upon but information/data is lacking Is it possible to supplement? Results should not be repeated here. 