This paper is aimed to comparatively evaluate the effectiveness of triple antibiotic paste with the anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac potassium and calcium hydroxide when used as an intra-canal medication in reducing post-operative pain. Introduction: Should set the basis of the need for the study, with enough references to mitigate the study. Please state the lacunae in the current literature as to necessitate your study. Mention the drawbacks of CH and the rationale of adding Catafast to TAPC. Mention the aim and objectives in the main text of the manuscript. Further, the justification for choosing diclofenac over other anti-inflammatory drugs has not been highlighted. Methodology: The article describes a novel double-blind randomized clinical trial and the author has clearly explained the process of selection of the subjects. Though the methodology has been elaborately explained, literature evidence reveals the use of TAP in the concentration of 1:1:1 as intracanal medicament, whereas in this study the concentration used is 500mg ciprofloxacin, 500mg metronidazole, 55mg minocycline, and 50mg diclofenac potassium. The low concentration ofdiclofenac used might not justify the role of an anti-inflammatory agent since it may negatively influence the results of the study. In addition, the authors have used commercial calcium hydroxide (metapex) comprising of iodoform which is an antiseptic agent that could also contribute to reducing post-operative pain. Results: The pain was recorded at 24, 48, and 72 hours using VAS scale. During this period any participants suffering from pain or swelling both in the intervention and control groups were noted by the author as mentioned in the manuscript. However, the number of participants experiencing these symptoms and who received pharmacological therapy is not mentioned in the article, which might play a key role in influencing the overall results of the study. The author has analysed the age and gender comparison between the groups, however, the author could have subcategorised the wide age range of 18-50 years and denoted the number of participants falling under each category in the 2 groups, as it would be a major contributory factor. Discussion: The intracanal medicaments are usually placed for about a week, the author could have discussed the reasons for choosing a short time interval of 24,48 and 72 hours. The author has substantiated with literature evidence on the use of ibuprofen for pain relief but has chosen diclofenac potassium. The author could have emphasized the use of diclofenac potassium with literature evidence, described the mechanism of action of the drug in improving the efficacy of TAP which would have added more value to the article. The author should have explained the purpose of using a lesser concentration of diclofenac potassium. The reasons for drawing the conclusions are also not clearly dealt with in the manuscript. 