People can consume calories beyond their need and gain unhealthy weight. In ways that are somewhat analogous, societies can consume fossil fuel and other resources inefficiently, thereby transforming and polluting the environment in ways that are harmful. If this were the main point of the article, the reader might feel that the message is too obvious, the supporting facts too well known. Rather, the main thrust of the article is to delineate those analogous connections. Faithful to the article’s title, the authors assert: “A strong analogy exists between over/under consumption of energy at the level of the human body and the industrial metabolism of humanity.” They continue: “Similarly [with respect to the activity of energy-sensing cellular pathways in people], in a way that is not just analogical but organically and causally linked, energy and resource efficiency is vital at the level of society and the biosphere… We propose the concept that a deep parallel connection exists between over/under consumption of energy at the level of the human body and at the level of the biosphere, and that this connection has profound implications for human and environmental health.” Here, we were unsure as to the exact nature of their thesis, but it seemed the authors may be suggesting a remarkable synergy of very different effects on health, which may be measurable and ultimately help to define research priorities and improve study methods. However, the next two sections in the manuscript discuss the human health consequences of dietary energy over-consumption in individuals, and industrial over-consumption in societies, respectively, without showing many, if any, clear parallels. For example, it may be true that replacing meat consumption with that of vegetables may benefit both individuals and the environment, but clearly through different mechanisms and with different arrays of outcomes. This latter is a problem the authors don’t acknowledge. And, of course, under-consumption has very different implications to individuals, their cells, society and the environment, but except for the inclusion of the term in the sentences quoted above, under-consumption and its various implications are not discussed. In the previous examples and others, the “deep parallel connections” between cells and biosphere were neither self-evident nor made clear by the authors. Consequently, much of this opinion piece on energy consumption, particularly as expressed by the authors as an analogical link between human cells, society, and the biosphere, was not convincing. We were left with the obvious fact that over-consumption of personal or industrial fuel has consequences to human health. In summary, we found the main motif of the article, namely, the analogical linkage between personal and societal energy consumption, lacking in clarity, structure, and careful support. Data presented in tables lacked description of source and methods, making them difficult for us to interpret as well. Even so, we commend the authors for expressing poignant and relevant thoughts about how we as individuals, and as members of a society, may protect our future health, and how individual lifestyle may interact with the environment in that regard.