Ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation involves the assembly of ubiquitin chains on specific proteins followed by their recognition and subsequent degradation by the proteasome. Since ubiquitination is a reversible reaction, there has been great interest in understanding the role of protein deubiquitination as a mechanism to regulate protein degradation. This is particularly true in post-mitotic neurons where lowering the burden of ubiquitinated aggregates of tau, Htt, alpha-synuclein and TDP-43 observed in Alzheimer’s Disease, Huntington’s Disease, Parkinson’s Disease and Amyotropic lateral sclerosis, respectively, is an attractive therapeutic intervention for the treatment of these diseases. Ubiquitinated proteins stably associate with the proteasome through their interaction with proteasomal ubiquitin binding proteins. Following binding, and prior to degradation by the proteasome, ubiquitinated proteins are stripped of their ubiquitin tag. The disassembly of ubiquitin chains by proteasomal deubiquitinating enzymes serves multiple functions, including maintaining ubiquitin pools and determining whether a substrate will be released or degraded by the proteasome. The ubiquitin-specific protease 14 (USP14) is a proteasome-associated deubiquitinating enzyme that is required to maintain ubiquitin levels by preventing conjugated ubiquitin from entering the proteasome. Previous studies have also indicated that either a pharmacological block or genetic inactivation of USP14’s ubiquitin-hydrolase activity can reduce the steady-state levels of overexpressed aggregate-prone proteins tau, TDP-43 and ataxin-3 in immortalized cell lines. These findings suggested that blocking USP14’s deubiquitinating activity would lead to enhanced degradation of ubiquitinated substrates by preventing the substrates from being released by the proteasome prior to their commitment to degradation. Studies in mice provide support for an essential role for USP14 in controlling ubiquitin pools. Analysis of USP14-deficient mice revealed a significant loss of ubiquitin in multiple tissues, including the brain, and even greater loss of ubiquitin at synaptic terminals. Restoration of ubiquitin pools in these mice restored some of the synaptic transmission deficits caused by the loss of USP14, indicating a requirement for USP14 in ubiquitin homeostasis. Contrary to what was observed in immortalized cell lines, there was no detectable change in the steady state levels of the aggregate-prone proteins tau and ataxin-3 in the USP14-deficient mice. However, increased levels of phosphorylated tau were observed in the USP14-deficient mice and correlated with elevated levels of activated JNK, ERK and AKT. While USP14 still remains an interesting target for therapeutic intervention in protein-aggregate diseases, its role in controlling the degradation of specific proteins is not clear. This study by Ortuno et. al. aims to further investigate a role for USP14 in controlling proteasomal degradation of aggregate-prone proteins. To do this, the authors first investigated if either overexpression of wild type USP14 or ubiquitin-hydrolase inactive USP14 would alter the levels of transfected tau or alpha-synuclein in an HEK293 cell line. If USP14 acts as an inhibitor of protein degradation, then overexpression of wild type USP14 should lead to increased levels of these aggregate-prone proteins while overexpression of ubiquitin-hydrolase inactive USP14 should reduce their levels. However, increasing either wild type or ubiquitin hydrolase inactive USP14 did not result in a detectable change in the steady-state levels of tau or alpha-synuclein.The authors then investigated if lowering the levels of USP14 in the neuronal SHSY5Y cell line, which expresses endogenous tau, would result in decreased tau levels. Although the authors were able to significantly decrease the expression of USP14, they did not observe any significant change in the level of endogenous tau. The authors were therefore unable to confirm a role for USP14 in controlling the degradation of aggregate-prone proteins. The title is appropriate and the abstract provides a suitable summary. The experiments conducted in this study all generated high quality data and included appropriate controls. The authors provided a reasonable conclusion and potential reasons for differences between their results and those previously reported on USP14. Concerns: The entire premise of this paper is based on the manipulation of proteasome-bound USP14. Unfortunately, the authors did not determine the level of proteasome-bound USP14. This is particularly important for the transfection of USP14(CA) and the Usp14 siRNA knockdown experiments. If proteasome-bound USP14 has a long half-life, then these manipulations may not have significantly displaced endogenous USP14 from the proteasome. The steady state level of any protein depends on the rates of synthesis and degradation. However, the measurements in this report did not take into account either of these variables. While highly unlikely, changes in protein turnover due to manipulation of USP14 may have caused increased turnover of tau, alpha-synuclein or TDP-43 with a corresponding increase in synthesis, resulting in no change in protein abundance. There are no error bars in figures 1, 2 and 4. It is not clear if the quantitations represent averages from replicate immunoblots or if a single blot was performed for each experiment. 