This paper lays a very important ground work and proof of principle for crosslinking photosynthetic complexes using click chemistry. It has already solved several major hurdles such as Cu-related loss of pigment color and similar effects due to reducing agent. It is using a very clever approach for low level modification and purification of these modified complexes using streptavidin beads, yet choosing to elute using DTT. It is somewhat surprising that TCEP, being a milder reducing agent, appears to be harsher on these pigmented complexes than DTT. It would also be great to see a comparison to betamercapthoethanol (BME), another well-known reducing agent, as well as an array of less known alternatives. Nevertheless, the discussion identifies weaknesses of current work appropriately. These weaknesses could be addressed in a follow up work either by the Sturgis lab or anyone else following the precedent set by this work. Some additional comments might include poor resolution of size exclusion HPLC (Fig. 4A), though absorption spectra (Fig. 4B) show acceptable spectral purity, especially in context of the discussion presented by the author, exhibiting keen understanding of the nature of some of the impurities. In order to address my reservations, I would like to see the following: The paper mentions low yield of the last step, but doesn't provide quantitative data. Judging by the HPLC chromatogram in Fig. 4B it could be as much as 33%, but most likely it is much lower. If possible, either a Clear Native Gel or ultracentrifugation (especially analytical ultracentrifugation) might show relative amounts of complexes. Protein assay or amino acid analysis might be helpful in this regard as well. Showing normalized spectra shown in Fig. 4B (perhaps based on a ~600nm peak or one of the carotenoid peaks) could show the spectral shift and incorporation of both CCs and LH2s in the click-chemistry linked complex. Providing insight into yield using Cu. Even though the pigment is lost, but is the final step yield different (especially if significantly higher) as judged by HPLC? This could provide evidence that Cu-free system is not as efficient and might need additional improvements. Building on my previous remark, how optimized are current conditions? Have they been selected after a panel of unsuccessful trials or these represent the first or second trial? Specifically, are the temperatures and times of incubation at each step optimal? Click chemistry is typically thought of as almost quantitative, but it this very complex system there are several aspects to be considered that may decrease the yield. I think it would be great to see the HPLC of these protein complexes before and after to show appearance of a new peak corresponding to the linked complexes. It is unlikely that LH2 absorption would be observed in first peak since it shows up last as the peak representing the smallest complex. Unless, of course, it is present in such oligomeric form even before the reaction. Lastly, I would like to see several editing corrections to be made: a) page 4, in the paragraph that starts with "Singly labeled proteins..." second and third sentences should read " The resulting proteins contain a unique reactive thiol, SINCE THE NATIVE proteins used do not have exposed cysteins. In the next step..." new suggestion is shown in all CAPS, but does not need to be capitalized in the final text. Also, the word "So" has been removed from the beginning of the third sentence in this paragraph. b) continuing a few lines, instead of “each other” perhaps “a complimentarily modified counterpart” might be more suitable. c) Controlling degree of labeling paragraph, remove "this" in the second sentence. d) Same paragraph as part b) refer to Figure 1 when referring to "extinction coefficients calculated as described above, and then check spelling of fluorescein immediately following. e) same paragraph, when talking about threshold, could you mention how many lysines do you expect to have available? It could be at least a measure of expected threshold. f) The second and third sentences under “Purifying low yield labeled proteins” I would paraphrase into “We chose to use succinimidyl-2-(biotinamido)ethyl-1,3,dithiopropionate, allowing strong and specific binding of labeled protein to streptaidin beads. Pure protein was eluted either with biotin or by reducing the disulfide bond” g) Next sentence I would take out “as expected”, and add “non-specific binding” when referring to contamination of unlabeled protein without biotin. h) It would be great to have a mention of what the 5% impurities are in the biotin-containing proteins (or sizes, or at least how that was established) i) Next paragraph, I would like to add “since” after the comma in the first sentence. Also, could you provide % purity or yields in support of your decision to use reducing agent? j) Same paragraph (third under Purifying low yield labeled proteins, middle right hand side page 4 on PDF, roughly in the middle of the page) very end: How did this gel filtration step on a spin column affect the impurities (see h above)? Would another SEC be needed to show that? k) Next paragraph, second sentence refer to nanomeric protein COMPLEX. l) Same paragraph, impressive statistical analysis of the distribution of modifications. Could you provide that as a supplementary material or show it somewhere? m) Last paragraph before discussion, about halfway: “the labeling positions” seems to be typed twice in a row. 