In this manuscript the authors analyze mechanisms of photoreceptor degeneration. As a major finding they show that photoreceptors show a higher amount of DNA:RNA hybrids when compared to other cells. In several experimental steps the authors then provide evidence that DNA:RNA hybrids can activate ATM. The activation of ATM, in turn, is able to induce degeneration of photoreceptors (PRs) in a mouse model for photoreceptor degeneration. On the other hand the authors provide evidence that ATM is not present in PR cells. Thus, they claim that the accumulation of DNA:RNA hybrids in PRs might be the reason for the compromised DNA damage response, mainly the downregulation of ATM and 53BP1 in this cell type. The manuscript is well written and the presentation of the experiments and results is fine. Although the finding on the compromised DNA damage response of photoreceptors has been described earlier, the authors present several new findings that might help to explain these findings in the near future and will significantly contribute to the understanding of DNA:RNA hybrids in the DNA damage response. However, in many cases the authors try to transfer the data from cell lines directly into the retinal tissue which is questionable in several cases. Furthermore, their claim that ATM is not present in PR ignores already published data showing the activity of ATM in this cell type. Thus, in order to improve the work several points have to be addressed: 1. As presented in Fig. 1, the authors claim that DNA:RNA hybrids are observed in higher levels in photoreceptors. In order to prove this the authors should not only show a representative cross section of a whole retina but also perform quantitative analysis including cells from the INL as well as rod and cone PRs. Furthermore, the authors claim that S9.6 signals in rods are located in peripheral euchromatin of rods. In contrast, in the INL/GCL cell that is also presented in Fig. 1b, S9.6 signals are located in the peripheral heterochromatin. Thus, the authors should comment why in these cells DNA:RNA hybrids would be present in chromatin regions without transcription. 2. In Fig. 2 the authors present an increasing amount of gH2AX and 53BP1 foci in PRPF31 siRNA-transfected RPE-1 cells and conclude that this increase in DNA damage is due to a higher genomic instability. In contrast, no increased DSBs were found in retinal neurons of PRPF31 deficient mice. The major problem with this finding is that quantification of DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) in the cell lines is not carried out in a cell cycle specific manner. Since the authors did not check the influence of the siRNA treatment on cell cycle distribution and/or progression, these effects might be due to higher amounts of S- or G2-phase cells within one of the samples (since numbers of spontaneous DSBs increase in S-phase due to replication stress and are higher in G2-cells due to the doubled amount of DNA). Thus, the authors should - at least - quantify DSBs specifically for G1-phase cells and exclude S-phase and G2-phase cells from the analysis. The same is true for the primary cells from Prpf31 +/A216P mice. Without such a G1-specific analysis it is not useful to compare the data from a proliferating cell line with strictly postmitotic retinal neurons of adult Prpf31 +/A216P mice. Another striking finding is the discrepancy between the numbers of gH2AX and 53BP1 foci measured in Fig. 2a and 2b, since many papers have described that the majority of DNA DSBs show both of these markers. The authors should comment on this. Finally the authors describe an increased number of gH2AX and 53BP1 foci in PRs of 20 day old Prpf31 +/A216P mice when compared with wild type PRs. This is wrong for several reasons: First, the authors present measurements of signal intensities and not the quantification of foci. This should be changed in the text. Second, there is only a significant increase in 53BP1 signal intensity but not in gH2AX. The authors also state that 53BP1 is only expressed in the apical layer of photoreceptor cells. As shown by Mller et al. 2018 (Detection of DNA Double Strand Breaks by γH2AX Does Not Result in 53bp1 Recruitment in Mouse Retinal Tissues) these 53BP1-positive cells are indeed cone photoreceptors. Thus, in order to get a better idea which PR cell type shows this change in 53BP1 levels, the authors should measure 53BP1 levels in both rod and cone PRs independently. Furthermore, high resolution pictures of both cell types should be presented since the actual pictures do not show whether there is indeed focus accumulation or just an increase in pan-nuclear staining. 3. The authors show that RNAse H1 overexpression has a strong impact on DSB levels. One might wish to see the impact of this overexpression on the level of RNA:DNA hybrids. The authors should present a quantification similar to the one presented in Fig. 7a. 4. The major message of this manuscript is that the loss of ATM-53BP1 expression promote PR survival. As an evidence for ATM loss the authors present data from western blot analysis of micro-dissected neural retinas in Fig.4. I have several problems with these findings and conclusions: First, on page 11 the authors refer to Donovan et al 1 for the procedure of microdissection. After checking this paper one would conclude that the authors have taken the whole retina for this analysis. But in this case these results would not match with the finding that 53BP1 is still present in adult retina (as shown in Fig. 2). Thus, I conclude that microdissection means the isolation of the ONL for western blotting. The authors should clarify their methods. Second, the conclusion that ATM activity is lost seems wrong for the following reason: As Frohns et al 2 have shown by the irradiation of Scid mice and additional in vitro experiments, cone and rod PRs show a residual ATM activity that is able to phosphorylate gH2AX after DSB induction. Thus, ATM activity should be present in PRs rendering the major message of this manuscript questionable. 5. The sequence of data presentation in Fig. 5 and 7 is confusing, making it hard to get a clear model of the role of hybrids, ATM expression and its activation in the presence and absence of DNA damage. The authors should try to create a scheme that helps the reader to understand their data. Furthermore, Fig. 5a indicates decreasing gH2AX levels in H2O2 treated and RNAse H1 overexpressing cells when compared to RNAse H1 overexpression alone. In Fig. 7d the opposite can be observed. Why is that? 6. In Fig. 6a the authors show that H2O2 treatment alone has no impact on the numbers of 53BP1 foci. This is irritating since the same treatment increases gH2AX signals as measured in WB presented in Fig. 5a. Considering the fact that both, gH2AX and 53BP1 are DSB markers the authors should comment on this contradictory finding. In Fig. 6b the authors state that "53BP1 foci consistently co-localize with RNA:DNA hybrids". From 10 53BP1 foci shown in one picture i would score only 5 of them to clearly colocalize with hybrid signals. Thus, the authors should specify that statement or show a quantification. 7. In Fig. 7d the authors present increasing numbers of gH2AX foci in cells expressing the HB domain. But again the gH2AX analysis is not carried out in a cell cycle specific manner. This is even more of a problem than for Fig. 2 since RPE-1 cells (which likely were used for this analysis, although it is not clearly stated in the legend) show an S-phase accumulation after HB domain overexpression (as shown in Fig. S5). Thus, the increase in gH2AX foci levels might be due to a higher number of S-phase cells (which usually show higher spontaneous DSB levels) in comparison to WT cells. 8. On page 6 the authors state "Expectedly, ATM-depleted cells are also inefficient in forming 53BP1 foci ( Figure 7a )". I agree that this is expected but still the pictures presented are of too low resolution to underline that statement (no foci visible). Thus, high resolution pictures should be presented. 9. In Fig. S6b it is shown that ATM and 53BP1 expression is detectable in human PRs. Hereby, the fact that ATM staining shows a punctual or foci-like staining is irritating. If this would be due to its accumulation at DSBs, why is there no colocalization with the also clearly visible 53BP1 foci (have the authors checked for pATM staining)? Minor issues: On page 4 the authors say that the outer half of the INL is composed mainly of horizontal cell nuclei which is not correct. Horizontal cells are a minority in the outer INL. The most common cell type in this region are bipolar cells. The authors should correct that. 