 C-Sibelia was created to be a user friendly tool for pairwise genome comparison. The web tool is relatively easy to use for the non-bioinformatics trained and will therefore make these kinds of analysis easier for small groups to perform. This is a big need. I can see the possibility of additional analyses to be added which will enhance the site. However, the output page has some real deficiencies that need to be fixed prior to public use. The web site cant recognize a fasta file unless named xxx.fasta. This is annoying since all genbank fasta files end in .fna and therefore will have to be renamed before use. This is an easy fix. I tested 2 bacterial genomes over 6 Mb and it took about 5 minutes for the results to come back. This is OK but could be a problem if the site eventually gets a lot of use. The output needs a lot more definitions or explanations: for example 1) the section titled number of effects by impact , I have no idea what high, low, moderate or modifier means; 2) there are 10,853 modifiers but there are only 1037 listed in the section changes by type 3) in the section number of effects by functional class there are 36 missense and 75 silent mutation listed, but there are 160 non-synonymous_coding and 136 synonymous_coding in the section number of effect by type and region 4) since these were bacterial genomes how are exons defined? There are additional inconsistencies and lack of definitions that I have not pointed out. The best way to fix this is to get somebody who has never used the system and has not been trained in any way to test it in order to point out all of these inconsistencies and lack of definitions. Some of the output was unavailable since in ran off the bottom of the allotted space. This will be a real problem when comparing draft genomes with more than 10 contigs. I did not get to see the circular map or the distribution of changes on the main chromosome because of this. I did not try to download and use the executable, but if it as poorly described as the output it will be hard for novices to implement. Again, get a complete novice to test downloading and installing it to make sure it is easy to use. 