In this manuscript, the authors described the generation of a tracheal epithelial guinea pig cell line, as well as the isolation and molecular characterization of two strains of adenovirus from Cavia porcellus (GPAdV). Virus propagation and partial nucleotide sequences are important findings, leading to the establishment of methods to better characterize GPAdVs. Some minor points: Title : Why using “initial propagation”? Why not “propagation” only? Keywords : Adding “phylogeny”, “nucleotide sequence” or “molecular characterization” could be more informative. Methods : In “Source of GP tracheas”, “…for transportation to the Kajon laboratory” do not specify the technical approach, like time and temperature until isolation and propagation of the cells. In “Immortalization of GP tracheal epithelial cells”, the sterile wash medium contains “2% penicillin/streptomycin”. Does it means 2 g of each one/100 mL of PBS? Alternatively, is it 2 times concentrated (2x)? The centrifugation will be better described in g than rpm. Why there are some additives to the culture medium (e.g. insulin, transferrin, etc.)? I suppose that they are used to select epithelial cells. If this is the case, some reference could be included. In PCR detection, it should be considered that positive controls are not mandatory to exclude false positives (as mentioned “To control for the specificity of the reaction in the absence of positive controls,…”) Results : Recovery of the virus in different cell lines seems to be similar for all of those evaluated although pictures showed at Fig. 3 correspond to different time lapses. Could we consider or speculate about more permissive cell lines? Legends of Figures: Fig 4 presents a misspelling – “twety” for twenty; in Fig. 5 blue is designed for both, virus genome and hexon gene. Discussion : It is not clear why authors mentioned “apparent low efficiency” of virus propagation. This speculation was based on PCR? In comparison with other adenovirus? I suggest citing the reference or the reason to this statement. In my opinion, there are some aspects to explore using the data obtained: differences of virus propagation among the cell lines, phylogeny, PCR positive result after virus propagation (nasal scraps) and comparisons with other described adenoviruses. One point that should be addressed is some low values of bootstrap and posterior probability at Fig. 4 to justify the conclusion “strong evidence confirming GPAdV as a unique species in the genus Mastadenovirus”. 