The article describes an R-based software tool aimed to facilitate analysis of data from outbreaks that include line lists of cases and case-contact data. The R package, epicontacts, is part of a larger suite of tools housed at the R Epidemics Consortium (RECON). The epicontacts package has the ability to merge data about cases in a line list with case-contact details, which then allows the user to describe and visualize contact networks, incubation periods, and serial intervals within an outbreak. The codes and methods for analysis are partly described in the article, and the authors should provide a link to the packages documentation, either at CRAN or RECON webpages, where readers could learn more about the package and its options. The output of the package provided in the article was interesting and intriguing. I felt that it was only partly explained and the article could benefit from the authors annotating the output and its interpretation a bit further. I have explored the RECON website and found the RECON Learn modules to be quite helpful in providing annotation of the epicontacts output and some guidance on interpretation. I would recommend that the authors consider either expanding the annotation of the output in this article or explicitly direct readers to the RECON Learn website for further instruction. Additional suggestions: Consider moving the section of the article called "Use cases" to before the "Data handling" subsection of the "Implementation" section. I felt that the description of the input datasets under "Use cases" was very informative and would have been organizational more helpful had it been placed earlier in the article. Consider describing the sample outbreak data in a bit further detail. It appears to be data describing the MERS outbreak that occurred in South Korea in 2015. I think the description should include whether the data are simulated or from a real outbreak (if from a real outbreak, then a reference to the outbreak description should be included), the scenario of the outbreak, how many cases, how many contacts, place of the outbreak, duration of the outbreak, and a brief description of the demographic details included in the dataset. This amount of detail would allow the reader to translate the details of the outbreak from your text to the output provided by epicontacts. 