The co-authors have an ambitious agenda to identify patient preferences regarding the differing attributes for the treatment of aortic stenosis. They are to be commended for tackling an important topic, and employing known methodologic standards for addressing the question. They deploy a methodology of adapted swing weighting (ASW), identifying which treatment attributes patients would tolerate to move from an invasive (surgical aortic valve replacement, or SAVR) option to a minimally invasive (transcatheter aortic valve replacement, or TAVR) option. A set of pairwise comparisons were made between 'less invasive" and other features of AVR, with 5 different iterations presented. The study is written by employees of one of the TAVR companies (Edwards LifeSciences), as well as employees of a company that specializes in patient preference work, paid for by Edwards. It is not apparent that there was engagement of other stakeholders in the study design, such as patients, families, clinicians, administrators, policy makers, etc. There were 5 patients with the disease condition that trialed the exercises before the start of the study to ensure understandability. There is no information how these patients were recruited, or what changes were made in response to their feedback. The authors’ conclusions are that patients are willing to tolerate big increases in risk and exchange for benefits of a minimally invasive procedure. Importance of the research question: Given the recent reconsideration of the TAVR national coverage determination, data as needed to inform interventions designed to increase the degree to which patient preferences are included in final decision making. This study suggests that there is heterogeneity in patient preferences and that patients may tolerate larger differences in risk than physicians and regulators traditionally have deemed acceptable when faced with a minimally invasive procedure. Originality of the work: There is not a large amount of data on the preferences of patients for TAVR. Strengths: Identifying patient preferences and how they influence decision-making is an important topic. Pair-wise comparisons can be helpful to delineate tolerance of risk in one domain versus another. In the decision aid that was presented to the patient's demonstrating differences between the 2 therapies, the same picture was used for both surgery and transcatheter procedure which did potentially reduce bias. Weaknesses: The largest weakness is the fact that the attributes were not selected by patients known to be affected by the disease condition; a survey was asked of participants in advocacy groups online. The eligible patients were created from the membership of heart valve voice and mended hearts. They were directed to an online screening tool where patient reported disease conditions were recorded. The study sample was largely white and highly educated. No patients had severe limitations to physical activity, which has been shown to significantly impact decision-making. This has been a consistent weakness in study design for clinical trials as well. The patients selected for the survey, in addition, were not necessarily patients that would be considering this decision. Data analysis: Responses from the survey were used to compute the maximum acceptable increase in risk or maximum acceptable reduction in benefits that participants would be willing to tolerate in exchange for being involved in a less invasive procedure. Interpretation of data: 93 patients completed the survey. Patients were not representative of the TAVR population and described above in the weaknesses. The authors importantly describe substantial heterogeneity and patient's responses to the exercise. Importantly, this correlated with patient age, which was lower in the sample than the TAVR population. Patients were more likely to prefer TAVR when considering benefits of independence or risks of mortality or disabling stroke. They were more likely to favor surgical AVR when considering risks of pacemaker and uncertainty regarding durability. Presentation of data and story: Abstract: The abstract describes that the purpose of the research is to determine which outcomes associated with TAVR and S AVR patients consider most important. Patients were not included in the selection of potential outcomes associated with the therapies. The abstract is stand-alone, describing the findings of trade-offs for risks and benefits. However, there should be a further statement about whether or not the patients had aortic stenosis and whether they were symptomatic as this is known to impact decision-making. Introduction: The introduction would need to be revised regarding the literature around pacemaker and stroke. Otherwise, the introduction lays out the rationale and explains the goals for the study. Methods: The methods provide sufficient detail that experiments could be repeated however, much of the methods could be relegated to a supplement online. Results: The results are hypothesis generating but are limited in the reliability given uncertainty regarding patient diagnosis, severity of AS and symptoms status. In addition, the attributes that the patients are commenting on are defined by the research team, with leadership from the company, and therefore have potential bias. The findings are clinically relevant as they describe differences and patient preferences around risk and benefit. They highlight the need for shared decision making approach. They also raise the issue of which outcomes are most important to patients. Additional research is needed to identify that from patients with symptoms themselves. Discussion: The discussion around the relationship between the guidelines and regulators needs editing. It is not clear on what the authors mean when they say that the current guidelines "do not take into account recent clinical data supporting the use of TAVR". There is an important point about how patients willingness to tolerate certain risks may differ from policy makers and physicians and an argument can be made to include patient preferences into final decision making. Limitations described include how well the participants responding to the survey paid attention to the questions. This is described as a reason for some of the heterogeneity. Limitation would be the small size of the patient's sample and those patients not having the disease that is being studied nor being symptomatic. The limitations focus primarily on the selection of ASW exercises as a way to assess patient preferences rather than the patient population. The tables and figures do stand-alone. The references appear appropriate. I appreciate the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript. 