Lee, Lawrence and Love present a workflow article about using a group of well-constructed Bioconductor packages for fluent genomic analysis that integrates both RNA-seq and ATAC-seq analysis results from the same samples (baseline and stimulus). The workflow provides instructions for obtaining differentially accessible (DA; peaks from ATAC-seq) and differential expression (DE; from RNA-seq) data objects, and more importantly a convenient way of integrating the ranged genomic features produced, while taking care of matching reference genome builds and other crucial “bookkeeping” tasks in the process. The authors have demonstrated analysis can be performed to check whether DA peaks are enriched in the vicinity of DE genes guided by the principle that transcriptomic response to IFNg stimulation may be mediated through binding of regulatory proteins to accessible regions, and these bindings can be detected by ATAC-seq if they increase the accessibility of these regions. The following steps are involved in the workflow: 1. Downloading peaks data and RNA-seq data 2. Perform DE and DA analysis 3. Integrate ranges of DE and DA 4. Test enrichment of DA in DE gene vicinity versus non-DE genes with various thresholds Major comments: The process of 'resampling' subsets of non-DE genes from the pool of non-DE genes should be clarified to explain the purpose of doing such 'resampling'. In particular, whether it can be considered 'bootstrapping' should be addressed. Our understanding is that the resampling here is done without replacement from DE results, whereas for bootstrapping we expect to sample data records with replacement and recompute statistics of interest from them. Interpretation of the enrichment results or more discussion on the caveats of doing enrichment analysis like this are required. Minor comments: The workflow was built with R-3.6.1 which results in a discrepancy with the current package's requirement of R = 4.0.0. However, this is understandable since we are near the new release of Bioconductor but be reminded to re-compile the workflow with released version. A code chunk for checking that all required packages have been installed prior to other analysis in the environment would make the execution smoother for a user wanting to run the workflow. The downloading function ` cache_atac_se()` raised an error when running on Windows. It can be fixed by setting mode = "wb" explicitly in the ` download.file() `. Figure 1 which summaries the workflow could be improved by incorporating colored blocks for each package module and more descriptive elements companying the actual function calls or data objects. The caption also needs to provide more complete description of the elements of the figure for it to be comprehensible. These changes will give readers who are not familiar with all these packages more information. The optional code chunks (such as the Importing ATAC-seq data as a SummarizedExperiment object ) could be moved down to appendix to make it clearer to the readers which things are core parts of the workflow and which are included for full transparency/reproducibility/data provenance. As for calculating the relative enrichment of peaks in DE versus non-DE, the description " For all variables except for the origin column we divide the first row’s values by the second row ," was inaccurate and could corrected to "divide the DE row with the non-DE row" It might worth emphasizing more on the contribution of this work in the abstract and introduction, maybe by stating explicitly the most attractive aspect of this work. For example, a guideline on integrating the ranged genomic features. Make the sub-headings consistent. Importing ATAC-seq, Import data. Some minor comments: library(fluentGenomics) appeared three times and library(plyranges ) twice in the workflow. If this was to avoid namespace clashes, the function could be called explicitly plyranges:: instead of loading the packages multiple times? You could just use limma for the DE analysis as well and save yourself the loading of the DESeq2 package (joking!) Is the description of the method technically sound? Partially. The “resampling” procedure needs a bit more explanation such as clarifying how and whether this is considered a bootstrapping method. 