This opinion article by Bullerdiek et al. reviews the types and etiologies of tumors associated with MED12, and put forward a hypothesis regarding the mechanism of MED12 mutation. MED12-associated tumors are understudied considering their high frequency, probably because they are most commonly associated with benign tumors. However, a better understanding of the etiology of these tumors would likely contribute substantially to our knowledge of the genetic mechanisms of tumorigenesis. The authors discuss the main types of tumors caused by MED12 mutations: uterine leiomyomas (ULs), fibroadenomas of the breast, and chronic lymphocytic leukemias. They point out that the characteristics of ULs associated with MED12 mutations differ markedly from those of ULs with other genetic causes. Within the same patient, multiple tumors with MED12 mutations of independent clonal origin are common. Bullerdiek et al. illustrate the presence of a mutational hotspot within the MED12 sequence with homology to tRNAs of multiple human pathogens. These qualities are suggestive of a genome editing mechanism warranting further investigation. Important changes: -The gene name! The gene name is mediator complex subunit 12 (MED12), not Mediator Subcomplex 12 as stated in the article. -In the Abstract it is stated “(MED12)…presumed classification as gain-of-function mutations…”, and in the Introduction “…deletions and, more rarely, indels, usually affecting exon 2 or the intron 1/exon 2 boundary are found which always leave the reading frame intact indicating gain-of-function mutations”. The term gain-of-function should be removed. The function of MED12 is unknown and there is no evidence suggesting that these mutations are gain-of-function. Major issues: -In Figure 2B, it is unclear how many patients in total were analyzed for tumor counts or whether the multiple MED12- mutation positive UL were concentrated in a small number of patients or spread evenly across patients analyzed. -Additionally, the labels appear to be switched in the key of Figure 2. -A major problem is that the authors claim that the occurrence of multiple ULs can be exclusively attributed to MED12 mutation. However, although the authors provide ample quantitative evidence of multiple ULs resulting from MED12 mutation within the same patient, the authors show no data regarding the occurrence of multiple ULs with other genetic mechanisms (i.e. HMGA2 arrangements). In order to make the claim that multiple UL is a feature unique to MED12- mutated tumors, the authors should provide data on non- MED12 -mutated multiple UL for the sake of comparison. If the number of non- MED12 -mutated multiple UL is zero, this should be made clear within the text of the article. -In reference to Figure 5, it is unclear whether the CLL mutations (yellow) cluster around the mutational hotspot as do the UL and fibroadenoma mutations, although the text of the article claims that the CLL mutations also cluster around the hotspot. -The authors point out that the evidence for a connection between infection and UL is dubious thus far, yet they go on to propose a mechanism for the role of infection in UL pathogenesis. To make a convincing argument, the authors must clarify why they still consider a pathogenic mechanism worth considering. -The authors should provide more detail about the pathogens with tRNA sequences matching the mutational hotspot. What is known about the involvement of these pathogens in pelvic infections? Does the prevalence of pelvic infections involving these pathogens approximately match the prevalence of UL? Is there any existing evidence for association between these pathogens and UL? Minor issues: -Second paragraph of the introduction: “As in the benign tumors, however, mutations of that gene occur as apparent driver mutations in a predominant subset of uterine leiomyomas (Mäkinen et al. , 2011; Markowski et al. , 2012; McGuire et al. , 2012), constituting the by far most frequent human symptomatic tumors of all.” Do the authors mean “As in the malignant tumors...” Also, “that gene” is vague. Replace with MED12. -Second paragraph introduction: “Furthermore, the same type of MED12 mutations was found in two canine vaginal leiomyomas (Markowski et al. , 2013a)” can be changed to “Furthermore, the same type of MED12 mutation was found in two canine vaginal leiomyomas (Markowski et al. , 2013a)” -Third paragraph introduction: “Predominantly, the mutations are clustered in the 5 ́ region of exon 2 of the gene with only a few mutations affecting the intron 1-exon 2 boundary or, much rarer, exon 1 or the exon 1-intron 1 boundary” can be changed to: “Predominantly, the mutations are clustered in the 5 ́ region of exon 2 of the gene with only a few mutations affecting the intron 1-exon 2 boundary or, more rarely, exon 1 or the exon 1-intron 1 boundary” -The heading “Introducing three tumor entities displaying a unique type of MED12 mutations” should be changed to “Introducing three tumor entities displaying MED12 mutations” -Under subheading: Uterine Leiomyomas – the most frequent symptomatic human tumors, “Depending on their location it can be distinguished between submucosal, intramural, and subserosal UL” can be changed to “Depending on the location, the difference between submucosal, intramural, and subserosal UL can be distinguished” -The subheading “Fibroadenomas of the breast - Frequent benign tumors of adolescent and young women” can be changed to “Fibroadenomas of the breast - Frequent benign tumors in adolescent and young women” and the subheading “Chronic lymphocytic leukemias - most frequent leukemia of the adults” can be changed to “Chronic lymphocytic leukemias - most frequent leukemia in adults” -Under the heading “A closer look at the molecular pathogenesis of uterine leiomyomas,” the sentence, “According to the high prevalence of uterine leiomyomas MED12 mutations are by far best investigated in this tumor type” can be changed to “ MED12 mutations are by far best investigated uterine leiomyoma tumor type.” -Second paragraph under the subheading: “Leiomyomas with MED12 mutation constitute their own genetic subtype which is also characterized by a distinct clinical and histopathological appearance,” the sentence “Accordingly, both mutations allow the two major genetic subtypes of UL to be distinguished, and the question arises whether or not the genetic subtypes are also reflected by a different clinical behavior and histopathology” can be changed to “Accordingly, these mutations allow the two major genetic subtypes of UL to be distinguished, and the question arises whether or not the genetic subtypes are also have different clinical behaviors and histopathologies” -The second paragraph under the subheading: “The percentage of MED12 - mutated tumors is positively correlated with the total number of tumors per patient,” the sentence “Along with previous data this distribution confirms that, as for its pathogenesis, the occurrence of multiple leiomyomas near exclusively can be attributed to just one genetic mechanism, i.e. MED12 mutations” can be changed to: “Along with previous data this distribution confirms that the occurrence of multiple leiomyomas nearby can be exclusively attributed to just one genetic mechanism, i.e. MED12 mutations.” -At the end of the first paragraph under the heading: “A closer look at the patterns of MED12 mutations seen in various benign and malignant tumors” the word respectively is unnecessary. -Under “Hypothesis and Opinion” the sentence “Nevertheless, additional factors favoring this multitude of tumors carrying the same type of mutations despite their independent clonal origin have remained enigmatic” should be changed to “Nevertheless, additional factors favoring this multitude of tumors with independent clonal origin carrying the same type of mutation have remained enigmatic.” -Also, “In addition to these both models possibly accounting for other genetic subtypes, as a third alternative factors as in particular infectious agents warrant consideration” should be changed to “In addition to these models, the potential roles of infectious agents warrant consideration” -Also, “As to another virus of the Herpes group, a recent study failed to reveal a significant association between HSV-2 seropositivity and the presence of fibroids (Moore et al. , 2016) and in general not convincing evidence for viruses involved in the pathogenesis of UL has been presented” should be changed to “As to another virus of the Herpes group, a recent study failed to reveal a significant association between HSV-2 seropositivity and the presence of fibroids (Moore et al. , 2016) and in general no convincing evidence for involvement of viruses in the pathogenesis of UL has been presented” To summarize, the authors build a fairly convincing argument for the need to more closely study the mechanism of MED12 mutation in tumorogenesis. However, as detailed above, there are multiple areas in which additional evidence and clarification is needed to support the authors’ claims. Additionally, correction of several grammatical errors and awkward phrasing throughout the manuscript would greatly improve readability. 