The paper "methyvim: Targeted, robust, and model-free differential methylation analysis in R" authored by Hejazi NS, Phillips RV, Hubbard AE and van der Laan MJ, presents a model-free method for determining differential methylation in the R programming environment, leveraging methods used in machine learning research to determine variable importance. The paper topic is very interesting and potentially quite valuable to the epigenetics and bioinformatics communities, especially given the similarity of methods currently utilised for differential methylation analysis. The manuscript is very good but we had a number of concerns, comments and suggestions regarding how the method is presented or can be improved: Readability: The real value of F1000 papers is the freedom that the journal gives the author to extensively explain individual steps in an analysis. The way the manuscript is currently set out is fine for a standard paper, but it would be great if there were direct examples explained where concepts are introduced (i.e. in the "implementation" section), rather than having examples later in the "Operation/Use Cases" section. This would vastly simplify the text and enable each function and parameter to be comprehensively explained in the context of the method presented. Additionally, the authors do a great job at giving background to variable importance measurements, however some of the explanations could be simplified for readability. Introducing background to a concept such as this can be challenging so the authors have done quite well at explaining this. I am definitely not an expert in this approach and even after re-reading the introduction it was difficult to understand without additional materials. One such example was on page 3 of the manuscript: "In the context of DNA methylation studies, we define the counterfactual outcomes under a binary treatment as the observed methylation (whether Beta- or M-) values a CpG site would have if all subjects were administered the treatment and the methylation values a CpG site would have if treatment were withheld from all subjects." This could easily be simplified, perhaps by providing simple examples or analogies to help the casual reader, many of which have only limited statistical knowledge. Lack of performance comparisons: Given the departure from the current consensus (perhaps perceived consensus) of using model-based statistical tests to determine differential methylation, a comparison of methyvim to other algorithms or methods would enable the reader to accurately gauge the differences between the approaches. For example, what are the differences between parametric and non-parametric approaches and are there any additional advantages from using this approach compared to `methylkit`? Pre-screening: Overall there needs to be a great explanation regarding the pre-screening of genomic-sites. This would allow the reader to gauge the best parameters for this non-parametric approach. For example, the amount of CpG sites were reduced from 485,512 sites to under 500 sites based on Figure 1 (p-values histogram) and Figure 2. What was the number of the significant p-values on the first report of these public data (or if you run with any other existing package)? Will there be an issue with too much data trimming for the sake of having less computational demand? Scalability: The example described in this manuscript is from a 450K array, which makes for an easy example that is widely used in human epigenetics research. How does this approach scale to larger numbers of sites or samples? For example, if you used 1 million sites, do you get a comparable number of trimmed sites? Can this be implemented in whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) analyses, which is likely to have significantly increased numbers of sites? Given the size of current DNA methylation studies, the human or other research areas, perhaps a larger dataset would be helpful to include. Non-CpG methylation contexts: How would this `methyvim` package treat data for non-CpG contexts? For example, CHH methylation contexts have a methylation ratio which is much lower than the CpG context in humans, and therefore maybe difficult for the `methyvim` to filter. Illumina EPIC arrays (~850K) have a mixture of these sites on the array, so does that mixture create issues? Some level of work looking at that would be really important in this manuscript. Other comments: Some explanation about the results of the methyvim_cancer_ate would be nice (e.g. what was the maximum distance of two neighbouring CpG sites to be called neighbours? Are these results sorted by their coordinates (it might be easy to understand neighbouring effects if sorted)? Has pre-screening affected these max_cor_neighbors statistics? What would the sample classification look like using this non-parametric approach (e.g. PCA-plot)? In general, a greater explanation of results from each function would be useful. 