In the manuscript “Improved inference of chromosome conformation from images of labeled loci", Ross and Costello present a computational inference method to reconstruct genome conformation from measurements of the positions of m labelled loci of known coordinates with nm colored fluorescent foci. The presented tool is a new version of their computational tool "align3d" with multiple improvements. The tool has the aim of inferring the polymer conformation of chromosomes in-vivo, starting from images of fluorescently-tagged genomic loci, where each color tags different loci at the same time. The authors provide a test of the algorithm with data that are generated computationally, in a simple (short polymers) or more complex (longer polymers, more colors) setting. Finally they provide a simplified (and limited - see point 5 below) test using data that are derived from empirical data. The question appears interesting due to its experimental motivation, although probably the method is not yet close to something with concrete applicability to experimental data. We think that this could develop into a useful tool for the global effort of understanding the chromosome conformation of organisms in-vivo. As physicists, we are concerned with some aspects related to the representation (modelling) of the polymer and the experimental situation. Our observations might be useful for the authors or for other scientists that intend to analyse this kind of experimental data. The authors state that the inaccuracy of the DNA (conformation) model, i.e. how the physical distance of two loci scales with arclength distance along the genomic coordinate is a major factor of error (more precisely, this is a conditional distribution of distances given distance along the chain). They further state that nothing is known about this. However, this is not really the case, as both Hi-C and FiSH experiments with labelled loci give information about these quantities (Lagomarsino et al. , 2015 1 and Fudenberg and Mirny, 2012 2 ). In particular, the assumption that the polymer is a Gaussian chain seems very restrictive. A much less restrictive (though still limited) assumption would be that this scaling relation is a tuneable power-law. This assumption is particularly interesting because in this case the scaling law relating physical distance to distance along the genome is related to the contact probability measured in Hi-C data (Fudenberg and Mirny, 2012 2 ). Indeed, in this scenario the contact probability (sometimes called “P(s)”, where s is the arclength distance) and the connection between genomic distance and typical spatial distance R(s) are related by a scaling (Polovnikov et al. , 2018 3 ). Thus Hi-C data could be used to directly constrain the inference, or to compare with the results. In this last scenario one could use the inference to learn the scaling from data. It seems quite reasonable to us that this scaling should be one of the main observables to infer from the data. Imposing this scaling appears like imposing a specific behaviour on the configurations that we are attempting to infer. In this regard, one big question is whether the observable “scaling of physical distance with arclength distance” can be inferred from the data without making the problem under-determined. We would like to stimulate the authors to spend some words to address this question. As we suggest above, there are multiple possible approaches to this practical issue, such as the use of the observable quantity “P(s)”, the contact probability measured with Hi-C, or the use of an ansatz, such as a power law (Marie-Nelly et al. , 2014 4 ), accompanied by a procedure to optimize the parameters. The authors’ main hypothesis is that only one locus can map to each identified spot in the image, and, for this reason, the solution proposed is a heuristic method to solve the traveling salesman problem for the polymer on those loci. We observe that this might be a good practical assumption but it is not necessarily a good one for the chromosome, and for polymers in general. Polymers can have loops, even randomly. The definition of those loops depends on the resolution of observation (which experimentally will be limited by diffraction). The frequency of loops in chromosomes depends on important physical and biological parameters such as active looping (Fudenberg et al. , 2016 5 ), the presence of different solvent phases and the balance between steric and other kinds of interactions (Scolari and Lagomarsino, 2015 6 ) as well as from steps of the experimental protocols (Scolari et al. , 2018 7 ). Hi-C experiments, measure loops and quantify their specific and generic properties. In terms of the genomic distance, it has been shown that at small distances the chromosomes are very compact, and the amount of this compaction varies widely across conditions (Lazar-Stefanita et al., 2017 8 and Muller et al., 2018 9 ) even for the same organism. For increasingly longer distances, generally, the probability of making a loop normally decreases monotonically with genomic distance. Thus, we think that the authors’ approach should be applicable to an increasing number of cases by increasing the scale of observation and modelling, under the condition that the relation that ties the genomic distance to the three-dimensional distance is chosen correctly. The algorithm is focused on a single chain conformation and does not exploit ensembles. Typically in such experiments one expects to have fairly low precision of localisation, but almost arbitrarily large amount of realisations (different cells). Each will be different but will also have common properties, and relaxing the question could make the inference process much easier. After all, inferring precisely a single configuration is not so relevant, because it will change in time due to natural fluctuations of the system. It is more useful (and well defined) to infer some ensemble properties (at fixed conditions for the cells such as time and phase into the cell cycle), and then quantify the cell-to-cell diversity with respect to such average behavior. These images will come from microscopy and they will likely be 2D projections, or have lower resolution in the z direction. The authors do not address this issue (and in general the issue of resolution seems underestimated), but we expect it to be quite important in any concrete situation. In regard to the final example, we notice that the data is binned at 1mb and then interpolated at 100kb with a spline, we wonder if this resolution improvement introduces any alterations in the reconstructed conformations of the polymer. For this reason, it seems reasonable to perform a more thoughtful statistical analysis with different levels of interpolation to support this choice. 