This is a timely, interesting, and generally well-written article summarizing many of the positive benefits of thermal therapies, provided in the context of potential therapies for patients with COVID-19. In general, the authors cover a wide range of literature related to applications (local/regional, whole body, topical) of elevated temperature. My comments related only to organization and some references and distinguishing better the difference between fever and hyperthermia. Heat treatments are likely to be hyperthermia treatments. While fever contains a thermal element, fever and hyperthermia represent very different physiological circumstances. For example, statements such as that in Paragraph 2, right column, page3 "Fever has multiple actions with dealing with infections that include direct inhibition of pathogens, stimulation of both the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system and activation....". While the authors provide a review article as a reference here, most of this literature deals with hyperthermia and not actual infectious fever and this difference needs to be highlighted better. One would not be treated with fever. Moreover, there are other fundamental differences. Febrile individuals are usually quite cold and surface vessels constricted to conserve heat and help raise body temperature. Hyperthermia causes sweating and surface blood vessel dilation because the set point is not elevated. Moreover, there is a massive literature on heat stress/stroke (from hyperthermia, not fever) that can kill people because of excessive adhesion of platelets and white blood cells in capillaries. While the authors do rightly mention some safety concerns, it is perhaps a bit insufficient with regard to the impact of both hyperthermia (and fever). At the same time, the scope of the beneficial effects of mild elevation of body temperature and local temperature (in particular with respect to viral infections) is quite important to remember and hopefully expand upon in future clinical applications. Some topics should be highlighted more. For example, there is a substantial literature using electromagnetic heating and infrared heating for cancer therapy and so there is already safe equipment available for both local/regional as well as surface heating. Reviews on this topic have been available for some time. This technology could already be available for COVID-19 patients. I found some of the referencing related to the direct impact of heat on viral replication (either in vivo (e.g., nasal cavities or in vitro) to be scattered a bit throughout the review. Some better reorganization of these various sections would help the reader to assess this very important point. 