This is a very well designed and exhaustive study of attitudes among smoking/vaping populations and explores some of the obstacles to changing behaviour among different cohorts of smokers in different countries. There are interesting variations between for instance Lebanon where high levels of smoking continue to suggest a 'normalised' view of smoking particularly among adult males and countries where smoking is waning and, as the Russian informants reports, no longer fashionable. This formulation is important as it suggests that there are population groups that are not influenced by any of the established means of suasion - information provision on negative health effect, appeal and reconstruction of self image. It undermines both the conceptual model of homo oeconomicus, the rational, means/ends calculating rational analyst or the affective, fashion oriented, decision maker. Interesting data is also coming up about the attitudes to ENDS as an alternative delivery vehicle for tobacco. First, there is a deep rooted misunderstanding of adverse health effects of smoking. Large sections of the population (including physicians) continue to believe that it is the nicotine content of tobacco that is carcinogenic. It is this misconception that may set a block to transitioning to vaping mechanisms as people may think that vaping is just as dangerous because nicotine is not excluded. There emerges then a strong policy implication. Public health agencies must become more assertive in pressing the case for vaping. Moreover, the campaign by some lobbies with a view to stigmatize all nicotine use behaviour is not only discriminatory, but also highly irresponsible in public health terms by raising resistance to behaviour change. Through the sheer scale of the research large areas in the smoking cessation/transition debate are well illustrated. In many ways this is a starting point for correcting policy and practice measures and for driving new qualitative research to get a better understanding of the human beings behind the labels of smoker/vaper/nicotine users/ex-smoker and so on. It is also a good platform from where to explore and construe the narratives of transition, redefinitions, new-nicotine sociality and the search for a renewed definition of pleasure. 