The authors draw on secondary data from international institutions and recent research in economics (2016-2020) to highlight the role of India as a major global supplier of pharmaceuticals, particularly to low-and middle-income countries. Writing amid the Covid-19 pandemic, they argue that the disruption of pharmaceutical supply chains due to increases in demand and restrictions on the trade of certain products (e.g. export ban on 26 bulk drugs and formulations manufactured in India) is a major threat to global health and plead for adequate political intervention for the maintenance of a smooth international trade. The article is well documented, written clearly and concisely, and borrows on diversified and reliable data sources to provide figures that are very relevant and significative. This article is essential in that it evaluates the importance of India as a global supplier of pharmaceuticals at a time when rigorous data are needed to adequately inform emergency public policies which are too often shaped around political and nationalistic considerations, without looking at the scientific evidence. However, the argument would have likely been stronger if the authors had researched into the products required to fight Covid-19 (e.g. 6-digits level trade data from the UN Comtrade based on the Harmonized System of the World Customs Organization). Although we would have appreciated more attention to the specificities of the pharmaceutical products produced in India, the authors do stress that India’s role is more prevalent in the manufacturing of generic formulations and highlight their dependence on Chinese bulk drugs. In that regard, it would also have been precious to rapidly compare the role of other countries in the global supply of pharmaceuticals like China or Brazil to highlight India's particularities more sharply. Although this is not specified in the article, we assume that the main recommendation of the authors on the need to ensure the continuity of international supply chains is meant on a short-term basis, to deal with the immediate aftermath Covid-19 pandemic. We, however, miss here a more specific set of recommendations to achieve this objective, i.e. what is meant by the “full support of the entire global pharmaceutical industry”. It would also have been interesting to discuss whether the current pharmaceutical supply systems, in which countries and firms are increasingly made interdependent, should be modified to ensure more national self-reliance on the long run (e.g. through higher custom duties or incentives to relocate manufacturing units). But all-in-all, this article accurately emphasizes the important role of India in global access to health and can be authoritative as a reference for future research and policies on pharmaceutical supply chains. 