The study from Garcia-Quintans et al. looks at a new pAgo protein from Clostridium and investigates factors influencing its cleavage activity on DNA substrates. The in vitro activity is characterized pretty well, but there are some serious issues I find with the data and its presentation, as well as the contradictory findings of another recent publication. The authors report a significant (by eye ~40%) contaminant of an N-terminal truncation at about half the size of the expected protein (Figure 1). I would assume this is an inactive form of the enzyme, but does it still bind guides? Bind to DNA targets? Perhaps affect the results of all the experiments in the paper? This should be addressed in more detail, and ideally cleaned up (along with the GroEL contaminat) using another chromatography step. Most of the gels are shown as zoomed in cropped sections of the gel. I feel these should instead show the whole, or at least more of, the gel, and include low-molecular weight marker standards. Some gels have oligonucleotide standards but the resolution is very poor in terms of distinguishing between a few bases (I'd suggest moving the guides by more than 1 base). And as shown in Figure 8 11 ntd ssDNA can clearly be seen, but where is it in the other gels where the product should be 2 ssDNA's? The most problematic is Figure 5 where the far right gel is too poor for publication, and seems to show production of P species without added guide at 55C? Where is the guide in all those wells? Figure 8 seems to have additional bands between P and guide, Figure 10 has an unidentified high molecular weight species, and the size markers in Figure 7 should be labeled more clearly. I feel there should be more explanation given to the (to me) bizarre finding that a 7 or 9 base guide can cut at the +10/11 position...which of course does not have a guided complement. How do the authors think this can happen? The authors mention the Hegge et al. , preprint, which they should, but that paper was published in NAR after this study. And importantly, so was another study with CbAgo, from a strain mentioned here (Kuzmenko et al. 1 ). In this study, the authors show several things at odds with the current work: no cleavage with 10 or 12-base guides even after 24hr incubation, activity to 60C, ability to use 5'-OH guides, the ability to cut dsDNA with opposite strand guides at 37C in 1-4h, and with moderate (500 nM) concentrations of CbAgo a chopping activity on plasmid DNA. It is likely this work was not available at the time the reviewed study was published, but it is difficult to ignore the contradictions now. It is possible that the Cb/CbcAgo protein is exactly the same in all 3 studies, and these discrepancies are significant for the conclusions presented here. Related, I'd expect there to be some plasmid chopping given the time and concentrations the authors describe. But no Apo reactions are shown in Figure 10, an important control that is left out. And a comparison of attempts to digest non-supercoiled plasmid would be good for the explanation that dsDNA cannot be accessed w/o supercoiling. Minor points, but there are some errors ("xilencyanol", "ImajeJ) and inconsistencies (PfAgo/PfuAgo) that should be fixed. 