In the latest version of this article, the authors have adequately responded to the points raised by previous reviewers and critically evaluated each of these cell culture studies to assess the treatment potential of lithium for COVID-19 infections as well as the limitation and safety issue of this drug in clinic utility. This article is highly meaningful and could pave the way for using lithium to intervene in COVID-19 infections. If space is allowed, a few relatively minor points below are suggested to further enhance the paper: Lithium is a mysteries and powerful drug with the potential to be used in diseases beyond bipolar disorder. Among lithium’s actions, it seems appropriate to bring up the neuroprotective effects of this drug, which has been established for more than 20 years ago since the first publication in this area by Nonaka and colleagues (Nonaka et al , PNAS, 95: 2642-2647, 1998) 1 . At present, lithium has been found by various laboratories to exhibit robust anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic properties, in preclinical settings of a large number of neurodegenerative, neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases (for review, Chiu et al. , Phar Review, 65:105-142, 2013) 2 . This information is relevant to the current review, given that COVID-19 infections were accompanied by the detection of the virus in the patients' brain and cerebrospinal fluid, and could enhance the occurrence of brain disorders such as stroke, depression, encephalitis, seizures, and loss of smelling sensation (e.g., Wu et al., Brain Behav Immun, Advance online, March 30, 2020) 3 . Although supra-therapeutic concentrations of lithium were needed to suppress COVID-19 infection in vitro, this piece of information does not necessarily indicate that toxic doses of this drug are needed to produce ant-coronavirus effects in vivo. In the case of neuroprotective studies of lithium, lower doses of lithium with longer-term treatment were usually sufficient in primary neuronal cultures, while higher lithium doses with shorter-team treatment were often seen in cell- lines studies. In contrast to in vitro studies, clinically relevant doses of lithium were able to produce neuroprotective effects in preclinical animal models of brain disorders, such as stroke, Alzheimer’s and Huntington's diseases, among others (for review, Chiu and Chuang, Pharm Thera 128: 281-304, 2010; Chiu et al. , Pharm Rev 65:105-142, 2013) 4 , 2 . Since there are indications that early treatment with lithium after infections was more effective than delayed treatment against the COVID-19 attacks, the authors may also want to go forward and propose that lithium pretreatment could be used as a prophylactic strategy during the COVID pandemic. As pointed out, the anti-COVID-19 effects of lithium most likely involve GSK3 inhibition, it will be more helpful and informative to mention that lithium can inhibit GSK3 directly by replacing magnesium at the active site or indirectly by enhancing serine phosphorylation of this kinase to reduce its enzymatic activities (for review, Chiu and Chuang, Pharm Thera, 128: 281-304, 2010) 4 . In the subsection of "Other Evidence for Antiviral Activity" of the Discussion, it is suggested to include statements such as: "Notably, non-toxic concentrations of lithium were also reported to inhibit the replication of HIV via a GSK3-Wnt/β-catenin-dependent mechanism (Kumar et al. , J Virol 82: 2813-2820, 2008) 5 . Additionally, lithium pretreatment protects the hippocampus of mice from HIV-gp120-induced toxicity (Everall et al. , Mol Cell Neurosci 21: 493-501, 2002) 6 ." The rationale of using lithium in combination with chloroquine to control COVID-19 infection is weak and unclear, in light of increasing evidence speaking against the effectiveness of chloroquine. At least, some statements have to be made to indicate that the efficacy of chloroquine in COVID patients is debatable and not yet well accepted. 