Dr. Laderoute has advanced a novel and interesting hypothesis, that an innate immune state associated with the virus HERV-K 102 can, in some circumstances, prevent or reduce the risk of HIV infection by a mechanism of infection of macrophages and activation of innate immunity. Dr Laderoute also proposes that this mechanism can go wrong in such a way as to increase risk and finally that vaccination with HIV vaccine candidates can influence this interaction or vice versa. A number of facts or interpretations are marshalled to support this hypothesis. The main weakness of the paper is that it discusses a proposed causal relationship but, at many points in the argument, mentions only one interpretation of existing data and ignores alternative explanations, even when there are reasonably strong data supporting those explanations (for example, the elegant demonstration of correlate of risks in RV144 described by Haynes, Kim, Tomaras, Zolla-Pazner and others). The basic postulate proposed is that an endogenous retrovirus, HERV-K102 might interact with macrophages, particularly Kupffer cells, and that the innate immunity induced would temporarily (6 months) alter host susceptibility to HIV infection, in a way that could interact with HIV vaccine effects. Part of this argument is that ‘macrophages’ are involved in initiation or control of adaptive immune responses. However, the dendritic cells that are intimately involved in initiating immune responses, differ from Kupffer cells, and this difference is not discussed. Hormonal influence on the HERV-K102 link to innate immune states are postulated because in efficacy trials of one HIV vaccine, there appeared to be a gender effect on the results (the difference in efficacy between women and men in RV144 was not statistically significant). In fact the exposure, risk factors and baseline incidence differed between men and women in the two trials of the Ad5-vectored vaccine, STEP and Phambili, and it cannot be concluded from those data alone that there is a hormonal influence on susceptibility, let alone that is linked to endogenous retroviruses. The cohort of highly-exposed female sex workers in Nairobi is also cited as potentially protected by transient innate immune mechanisms related to infection of macrophages with the endogenous virus. This putative immunity fades within months after the women cease sex work—it seems unlikely that a mechanism based on co-infection with HERV-K102 would be influenced by ending sex work or that the endogenous retrovirus infection somehow depends upon continued sex work. If the HERV-K102 virus-related mechanism fades after 6 months, that should be 6 months from the time of infection with the HERV-K102 virus (which is unknown), not 6 months after ceasing sex work. No evidence is cited to link the virus infection itself or its interaction with macrophages to vaccination with HIV vaccines (a suggestion is made that the peptide tuftsin could be involved, but the link of tuftsin to HIV vaccines is not clear to me). To Dr Laderoute’s credit, she points out that a direct examination of this prediction is needed to test the hypothesis. In summary, the endogenous retrovirus is fascinating, and its potential interactions with HIV may be worthy of study. This is clearly an opinion paper, so some latitude in the discussion is permissible, but the paper does not make a sufficient case for its hypothesis. Highly selective interpretations of data in the literature have been made to link that virus with protection from HIV infection, and alternate explanations are not explored adequately. The postulated alteration of the effects of HIV vaccines on risk of infection requires several logical leaps, each of which has alternate explanations, and the range of evidence is not discussed in sufficient detail. The paper could be improved by limiting its scope and providing a much more comprehensive and balanced argument. 