Overall there is lack of clarity of what the study population is. Are they all RR-patients irrespective of their address? Of them, how was the outcome ascertained? A clear operational definition of “not initiated on treatment” is missing. Death has been excluded which should not be done. It should be included under pre-treatment loss to follow-up or reported separately. Detailed comments below: First two lines of abstract: Please check the English. May not be relevant for this paper. Abstract – Background: "implementation of Xpert MTB/RIF assay, which is a rapid molecular based test and more sensitive than conventional microscopy which detects MTB even present in small limit of 136 MTB/ml of sputum" - may not be relevant for this paper. Abstract – Background : Why is this study not clear? Is it because there is no information in Pakistan on this topic? Abstract – Methods : Avoid using the term “retrospective” (please follow STROBE guidelines). Abstract – Methods: How can patients enrolled into PMDT sites (I assume this means starting MDR-TB treatment) be included in the denominator? This is the outcome of interest and is included in the numerator. Abstract - Results : 84 out of 396? Of 84, 6 were started on treatment. So the remaining 78, were they not considered pre-treatment LTFU? Making it 78+78? Introduction - first line: “continues”, not “continue”. Introduction – paragraph 2: 13% RR-TB are missed from care - is this a repetition? Wasn’t the point already made before? “Missed from care” is not clear. Do you mean after diagnosis? The reasons mentioned below also include reasons for pre-diagnosis LTFU. Introduction - paragraph 2: Clarity of operational definitions: 1) Not initiated on treatment - within the district? In a province or anywhere in the country? 2) Not initiated on treatment - within how many days of diagnosis? Introduction - paragraph 3: WHO recommends (not “recommend”). Introduction - paragraph 3: "Xpert MTB/RIF assay should be used rather than conventional microscopy as the initial diagnostic test in presumptive TB cases (PTC)," - is this relevant for this study? Introduction - paragraph 3: "In 2014; about 3243 cases of RR-TB were detected in Pakistan, while 2662 were enrolled for treatment 6 ." - why share 2014 data here when 2017 data has been shared before? Introduction - last line: "that could be investigated thoroughly." - may be removed. Study design : Same comment as in the abstract (may mention cohort study involving secondary data). Study settings: Are there three Xpert sites for 33 districts in Balochistan? If yes, please stress this point. Is this sufficient or are these too few? Please make this judgement call in the setting (can bring this later in the discussion). 2 million (Quetta population) appears to be more than 1.2 million (province population). So there were three PMDT sites. Were these also the Xpert sites? Of these three sites, only two were functional. Please mention, to which population did these sites cater to? Are they for the whole of the province (Balochistan)? Study population: For RR-TB patients detected in Xpert sites with an address out of the province, were they included or excluded? The way I would frame study population is as follows: “RR-TB patients detected at the two Xpert sites in Balochistan during 2012-17 and belonging to Balochistan were included in the study.” Study population should not include the enrolled patients. All diagnosed patients (RR-TB) from the Xpert sites should be included. Enrolment at PMDT is your outcome of interest. "RR-TB patients referred out for enrolment at other than the study PMDT sites were also included." - this should not be mentioned under study population. Death is one of the reasons for pre-treatment loss to follow up and therefore should be considered as pre-treatment LTFU. First of all, this statement again (that deaths were excluded) should not be mentioned here in study population. It should be mentioned under outcome ascertainment. Sources of data and data collection: The authors need to mention the operational definitions here (may be a separate paragraph after this paragraph). Clarity of operational definitions: 1) Not initiated on treatment - within the district? In a province or anywhere in the country? 2) Not initiated on treatment - within how many days of diagnosis? Deaths should be considered as pre-treatment loss to follow up. In other words, if patients do not get initiated on treatment, we should also document how many of them died before treatment initiation. “Out of district or within district” - should this not be “province”? There is no description of district before. These sites cater to Balochistan. Also there are 33 districts in Balochistan. Also why were the dates not collected (diagnosis and treatment)? This way the authors could have calculated the pre-treatment delay among patients initiated on treatment Data confidentiality: This paragraph is not required. Ethics: Mention the name of the ethics committee providing approval (approval number and date). Mention whether administrative approval was obtained. Put this paragraph after analysis. “validated” may not be the right word to use. Statistical analysis: As this is a cohort study, please mention (should be clarified earlier) what the duration was of follow up for each patient before he/she was declared as pre-treatment loss to follow up. May then summarize the association between factors and pre-treatment LTFU using relative risk (cumulative incidence ratio if follow period was consistent for each patient). Results: As the study population lacks clarity I am not clear how to interpret this. There were 396 patients (I assume you included all RR-TB patients irrespective of their addresses). Of them how did you decide how many started treatment? Where did they start? Was it anywhere in these three sites? Was it anywhere in the country? Regarding the 84 that were referred out: Are these 84 out of 396? Of 84, 6 were started on treatment. So the remaining 78, were they not considered pre-treatment LTFU? Making it 78+78? For “factors associated”, please present a table with RR and aRR (for risk factor analysis). Discussion - third line: Just say Balochistan, as you included all sites in Balochistan. Discussion: All discussions around risk factors based on the aRR and their 95% Cis. Another point for consideration - Results/Discussion: There are three Xpert sites and three PMDT sites. If both are located in the same hospital, then if the patient belongs to the population covered under the PMDT site and is diagnosed in the Xpert facility in the PMDT site, then treatment initiation should not be a problem. If the patient belongs to a population covered under another PMDT site, then the patient has to be referred for treatment to other sites and here loss to follow up is common. Should this be considered as one of the factors (for analysis) for pre-treatment LTFU? However, the larger question is the operational definition of study population and operational definition of outcomes (treatment initiation). If the patient belongs to the population covered under the PMDT site and is diagnosed in the Xpert facility in the PMDT site, then treatment initiation should not be a problem. This should be included as one of the factors (for analysis) for pre-treatment LTFU. 