The authors have developed a program to study the phylogeny of large groups of proteins. This new method, named PRC Extended (PRCx), was applied on the lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase (LPMO) from over seven families. Conventional pHMM-pHMM methods failed to perform such a large construction due to the overwhelming calculation requirements. In this study, the authors used both pHMM-sequence searches and pHMM-pHMM alignments, they extended the original Profile Comparer program (PRC) and added several capabilities. It is plausible that the authors updated the popular original PRC program with the ability to load HMMer3.0 pHMM files, this is a very desired feature among the users of the original PRC program. The authors applied PRCx on the large LPMO superfamily to study the inter and intra-family enzyme evolutionary relationship. This study was not feasible without the newly constructed PRCx program due to the large size of the superfamily. The PRCx program was able to build the phylogenetic tree for hundreds of HMMs within a few days, which is a huge improvement comparing to the original pHMM-based method. During the preparation of the phylogenetic studies, the authors identified the PFAM LPMO_10 (PF03067) and GH61 (PF03443) families to be the in-groups. They also found PFAM Egh16-like family to be a distant relative of the LPMO family. They found the evidence to correct the mis-predicted cleavage site of the Egh16-like family PFAM HMM and used this family as the out-group for the study. The close examination of the resulting tree revealed several interesting features of the LPMO family. Many of these features point to potential experimental targets, for example, altering arginine, lysine and histidine in AA9 LPMOs might give impact on the activity level of the enzyme. Last but not the least, it is interesting to notice that the core LPMO pHMM has a model length of merely 165. Would a much bigger pHMM model compromise the performance of PRCx? Considering the fact that the authors tested the PRCx program on a moderate computer of Intel Core i5 with 8 GB of memory, a high performance computer with more RAM might solve the problem? As a researcher in the fields of applied Bioinformatics in biotechnology, I would recommend PRCx, together with the phylogenetic analysis of LPMO, to be published. The PRCx program will be a very useful tool to study big enzyme groups beyond the LPMO superfamily. *availability: The authors have made their program available via github, the supporting data is all accessible via Zenodo. 