The article is a clearly structured report on the results of the study and as such is both coherent and comprehensible. The scientific framework and the socio-demographic aspects of the study are exactly specified. The findings of the body psychotherapeutic group therapy with cancer patients are exceedingly interesting, particularly as the group therapy was a short-term therapy of only 6 sessions. It is clear from the combined, differentiated statements of the group participants that all of them have profited from the therapy, especially from the body psychotherapeutic approach. They have all attained new insights into their perceptions of body sensations and the relationship between thoughts, feelings and body activities. 5 of the 6 patients stated that their awareness of their physical and emotional borders had improved and that they are therefore able to reduce stress in their daily lives. The study shows impressively and probably for the first time, that this body psychotherapeutic group therapy with cancer patients has had very positive results. Of course these first positive results will have to be confirmed and elaborated by further studies. Since Wilhelm Reich (1948, 2001) there have been several approaches in body psychotherapy to the study of the origins and therapy of cancer, but the aspect of group therapy has not until now been examined. This study does therefore have an important pioneering aspect. In the light of the its merits my critical comments of the study are of minor significance. But I would have wished that the exact interventions and exercises, and their origins in which body psychotherapy approach, had been specified. It would also have been interesting to learn how the patients reacted to specific body psychotherapy interventions. Also I have some questions to the short-term-setting of the study. From my own experience over many years as leader of body psychotherapeutic groups, I see groups as having a more sustained long term effect if they take place over 2-3 years than if they are short-term. 