This review comes at a very inopportune moment. The entire software pipeline is based on the TCGAbiolinks tool kit, which downloads files from the TCGA DCC service. Unfortunately, just as this paper was being sent for review, the NCI began their migration to the GDC service. This means that all of the data services at DCC TCGA data portal (https://tcga-data.nci.nih.gov) are no longer active, and users are being directed to the GDC NCI data portal (https://gdc.nci.nih.gov/). This means that the TCGAbiolinks tool kit is broken. My attempts to run some of the examples listed in the paper where stopped by this issue. Many parts of the TCGAbiolinks will have to be fixed and/or re-written to deal with this change. This isn’t the fault of the authors, but it does render the example and pipelines described in the paper inoperable. There are a few technical issues that need to be addressed. The package ‘RTCGAtoolbox’ is mentioned, but actually its name is ‘RTCGAToolbox’. (lower-case T to upper-case), and because the bioconductor website is case-sensitive the provided URL ( http://bioconductor.org/packages/RTCGAtoolbox/ ) doesn’t work. On page 3, ‘TCGA Wikipedia’ should be ‘TCGA Wiki’. In the methods section on page 3, where the various data levels of TCGA are explained, on the most important aspects about the different levels is of access requirements. Data levels 1 and 2 cannot be accessed without dbGap, while level 3 and 4 are generally available for public access. There is also the question of whether or not this paper fits the criteria of the Software Tools Article guidelines. The authors have presented a loose set of examples that utilize various existing, and previously published, tools. In the guidelines of F1000Research's Software Tool Articles, the criteria for a paper is “We welcome the description of new software tools. A Software Tool Article should include the rationale for the development of the tool and details of the code used for its construction.” The authors refer to the code included in the paper as a workflow, but reads more like a series of point example that the reader can copy and alter for their own research. In introducing a new piece of software, one expects that the authors of the article are responsible for the software being presented. And while this article mentioned an extensive number of R packages, I believe only one of them, TCGAbiolinks, was written by the authors, and was published last year. While the analysis they present is very detailed and covers an expansive number of topics, I’m not sure if this should be classified as ‘Software Tool Article’. On my first read through, my assumption was that the authors were responsible for all of the tools mentioned in the abstract. And this wasn’t clarified in the text. For example, in the conclusion section on page 43, they include the phrase ‘We introduced TCGAbiolinks and RTCGAtoolbox bioconductor packages in order to illustrate how one can acquire TCGA specific data’, it wasn’t until later, that I realized that the author of the RTCGAToolbox wasn’t in the author list of the paper. Of course, this is at the discretion of the editors. I would feel that this material would better be presented as a review article covering the different methods of TCGA data analysis, with better notation and attributions about the source of different pieces of software. 