Markan KR discusses the controversial “FGF21 resistance” in obesity. It is an important topic for discussion given the crucial role of FGF21 signaling in health and disease. However, I feel that the discussion should also incorporate more recent findings, especially the results of tissue-specific CKO studies which have shed light on the sites of FGF21 action (instead of just stating “the specific tissue(s) mediating these effects of chronic FGF21 treatment remain undetermined”). Also, highlighting examples of local FGF21 resistance (e.g., pERK as a marker) vs. systemic FGF21 resistance (e.g., whole body metabolic effects) would be necessary since the receptors for FGF21 are located in various cell types. When the notion of “FGF21 resistance” was first introduced, it was an attractive idea to explain the “paradoxical” elevation in plasma FGF21 in obesity by analogy to other more established examples of hormone resistance where hormone insensitivity is associated with a feedback hormone production (e.g., insulin resistance, growth hormone resistance, leptin resistance, thyroid hormone resistance etc.). Around that time, the site of receptor expression important for the metabolic action of FGF21 was poorly understood, but the receptor complex expressed in adipocytes was thought to be responsible for many of the chronic metabolic effects. A decrease in Beta-Klotho protein expression in white adipose tissues in obese mice was thus considered to be a potential mechanism for “FGF21 resistance”. More recently, mouse genetic studies have uncovered that the induction of weight loss, glucose lowering, stimulation of energy expenditure, and increased water consumption, are mediated by the receptor complex expressed in the nervous system, rather than adipocytes (Owen et al. 2014 Cell Metab, etc.). This notion is completely overlooked by Markan KR, but in my view, is important when discussing “FGF21 resistance”. Other comments: Beta-Klotho was introduced in the 3rd paragraph without an explanation. For readers who are not familiar with FGF21 signaling, it should be explicitly noted that FGF21 acts by activating membrane-bound FGFR/Beta-Klotho receptor complex. In the second paragraph, “blunted ERK phosphorylation” – which tissues were examined? 