The authors present a workflow (which they refer to as a “recipe”) for the integration of RNA-Seq and ChIP-Seq experiments to find associations between genomic binding of TFs and their potential direct effects on the mRNA expression using the web-based work-bench GenomeSpace. The workflow enables integration of differential gene expression analysis following transcription factor knockdown (RNA-seq data) with binding data for the same transcription factor (ChIP-seq data). While there are many useful pipelines available for analysing and integrating sequencing data, GenomeSpace and its associated “recipes” make the analysis and integration of the data less daunting for a biologist with little or no programming experience. Overall this “recipe” will likely be useful for biologists. However, we would like to make a few comments: 1. The authors do not make it clear whether the user has to pre-align the files to the reference genome before uploading them to GenomeSpace or the alignment itself can be done via their recipe. If not then it will be useful to provide the necessary tools and guidance required for alignment given that aligning the reads to genome is one of the most memory and time consuming steps. 2.The authors use the Cuffdiff module from the Cufflinks package to perform differential expression. Although the goal of this recipe is providing user-friendly and simplified workflow for integration of data the authors should mention the advantages of alternate tools such as EdgeR and DeSeq for identifying differential expression. These tools are available in GenePattern therefore it will be sensible to provide the user with all options. Especially since these tools are known to have better normalisation techniques and perform a more robust and reliable identification of differentially expressed genes compared to Cuffdiff. 3. The authors should not confuse the Enriched peak data obtained by using the MACS callpeak tool on the ChIP data and its input with Differential peak s. Differential peaks are obtained between two experimental conditions and not between the ChIP experiment and its input. This language can be misleading especially for beginners. 4. A flowchart of the analysis steps in the paper would be highly useful to get started. 5. Figure 1 is not entirely clear as presented. It is not clear why two separate panels are provided rather than a single panel that shows the location of the ChIP-seq peaks relative to the gene expression changes. Also, indicating what the colours represent in the gene expression data. The track labelling on the left is also not clear, and presumably “overlay” is the RNAseq data and “peaks” the ChIP-seq data. While the current labelling is presumably driven by the naming of the original files, better labelling is suggested in the context of this figure so it is clear to the reader. Finally, looking at the coordinates provided, we are not convinced that this is a good example to provide. The TF binding event Appears to be over 2.5Mb from the TSS of the putative target gene, meaning that any links here would be fairly low confidence. This would of course become more obvious if displayed on a single panel. 6. To make the “recipe” really useful, it would be good to have outputs beyond simple genome browser views. Having a tabular output of differentially expressed genes and the relative location(s) (and coordinates) of any binding peaks for the transcription factor in question would be useful to have. 