This article provides an intriguing approach to protein function prediction -- to treat the task as a word translation process. However, the results that the authors provide to not justify the statement that the approach is likely to be "the most promising approach" and are not appropriately compared with state of the art methods. Furthermore, no biological intuition appears to have informed the approach; this results in an approach that, while novel, doesnt capture some fundamental characteristics of the data. Protein sequence - function relationship : The fundamental assumption embodied by the method is that there is a strong relationship between protein (sub-) sequences and functions, as represented by sequences of GO terms. While this is likely true for some sub-sequences, it wont be true for all, as the authors themselves point out. Does the method allow for some sequence "words" to be effectively silent in the prediction phase? Figure 1 shows each word being included in some phrase which is "translated". Can some words remain untranslated? How often does this happen for this task? What about sequence words that should correspond to multiple GO terms? Is the sequence of words biologically important? The "Best BLAST" method that the authors compare with (NB: I wouldnt call that approach "search-based" as that name is extremely underspecified; rather I would suggest "sequence similarity-based") uses local sequence similarity; some regions of the sequence will not be considered. It certainly isnt obvious to me that linear order should matter at all on the output side; it appears that the GO sequences are listed in numeric order by ID and a "2-gram language model" over GO sequences should not carry any more information than a 1-gram model would, as the IDs themselves are arbitrary. This representation is not well-justified. Segmentation : The authors use a EM-based approach to drive segmentation, which essentially captures the statistical properties of particular subsequences. There should be some relationship to work on motif finding here; the authors should identify some relevant work on that topic (e.g., Tompa et al. 1 , although there are likely many more reviews available; as this is not my area specifically I suggest the authors do their own search). The authors should also compare to a far simpler segmentation approach: just splitting the sequence into words of fixed length. This is a character-level n-gram representation. Perhaps all the work of running EM (and the associated large number of data points) is completely unnecessary. (The authors would of course need to try a few different lengths for this to be meaningful.) Essentially, the strategy needs to be justified, and the impact on the broader function prediction task must be quantified. What is the relationship between the maximal word length and the number of output terms included in the output GO sequence? Is there a length bias on the output side that is also reflected in Figure 2? Again, this hinges on the appropriateness of characterising this task in terms of the translation model. Data: The authors do not clearly state whether they consider all GO annotations available for a protein, or if non-experimental evidence codes are excluded. If "Inferred by Electronic Annotation" codes are included, this means that "Best BLAST" has likely already been used to produce the annotations, which would explain at least to some extent why the performance of that method shows such strong results. Experiment details: The authors do not specify what e-value threshold they assume for BLAST. Filtering : The authors incorporate various filters along the way, and it is unclear how strongly this biases the training/test data that they utilise. The authors delete long sequences and proteins with many associated GO terms. The cleaning reduces the data set substantially, but the rationale for doing this cleaning appears to have more to do with the limitations of the approach that the authors have adopted than because of some biologically valid reason. The exclusion of such a large number of {sequence,GO annotations} pairs will certainly undermine the findings. This also applies to the deletion of the "obviously mis-aligned" sequences. How many instances does this filter? Why are these obvious mis-alignments? The number of GO terms associated with a sequence has more to do with (a) annotation bias [some sequences are far more heavily studied/annotated than others] and (b) overall progress on curating protein function information (see Baumgartner Jr. et al. 2 ). Evaluation: Recently, the CAFA challenge explored protein function prediction from sequence 3 , and in association with that there has been detailed consideration of evaluation of this task 4 5 -- the key point being that the structure of the GO should be taken into consideration in the evaluation. The authors present their results in terms of BLEU, but in their use of the unigram form, I think that BLEU simply collapses to Precision. This, then, ignores Recall completely. The evaluation presented should certainly measure Recall, and the authors should provide results that are comparable to the results of systems that participated in CAFA. They should then compare their results to the state-of-the-art methods. Summary In summary, the applicability of the method to this task should be more strongly justified and the experimental set-up (including the extensive filtering of data points and the evaluation metrics) should be more carefully considered. The authors conclusions have not been adequately justified on the basis of their results. References 1. Tompa P, Davey NE, Gibson TJ, Babu MM: A million peptide motifs for the molecular biologist. Mol Cell. 2014; 55 (2): 161-169 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Baumgartner Jr WA, Cohen KB, Fox LM, Acquaah-Mensah G, et al.: Manual curation is not sufficient for annotation of genomic databases. Bioinformatics. 2007; 23 (13): i41-i48 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 3. Radivojac P, Clark WT, Oron TR, Schnoes AM, et al.: A large-scale evaluation of computational protein function prediction. Nat Methods. 2013; 10 (3): 221-227 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 4. Clark WT, Radivojac P: Information-theoretic evaluation of predicted ontological annotations. Bioinformatics. 2013; 29 (13): i53-i51 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 5. Verspoor K, Cohn J, Mniszewski S, Joslyn C: A categorization approach to automated ontological function annotation. Protein Sci. 2006; 15 (6): 1544-1549 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Verspoor K. Reviewer Report For: Translate gene sequence into gene ontology terms based on statistical machine translation [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :231 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.2746.r6149 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-231/v1#referee-response-6149 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Pavlidis P. Reviewer Report For: Translate gene sequence into gene ontology terms based on statistical machine translation [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :231 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.2746.r2296 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-231/v1#referee-response-2296 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 04 Nov 2013 Paul Pavlidis , Centre for High-Throughput Biology and Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.2746.r2296 This paper describes a method for predicting gene function based on amino acid sequence, using a method inspired by automatic translation of human language. The idea is to break the sequence into segments, and each segment is assigned a GO ... Continue reading READ ALL 