The presented study aimed to characterize active serine proteases in cervicovaginal fluid (CVF). Active serine proteases were profiled using activity based probe from human CVF highlighting 2 close bands. A whole proteomic strategy was performed using human CVF and 2 proteases were deeper characterised, KLK3 and TMPRSS11D. CVF is a particular fluid since the pH is very low and also numerous proteases. The study is well designed and based on human samples, increasing the interest of the study. The manuscript is well written. However different points will need to be discussed or explained. How could we explain why using ABP only two bands are highlighted (figure3) since 36 serine proteases were identified on MS/MS study (Figure1)? A clear correlation between activity of KLK13 and TMPRSS11D and their presence in CVF is not well established. Why authors did not perform MS/MS approach on active proteases enriched sample after ABP trapping? Authors claimed that KLK3 active form was present in CVF sample. However in figure 3 and 4 it not clear that immunoband from recombinant active KLK13 and higher band from ABP treated CVF are at the same size. In addition, why active recombinant KLK3 showed two bands after ABP trapping? Why inactive mutant KLK13 is also trapped by ABP? What is the identity of mutation? Why KLK13 is always present on gels in figure 3? Authors suggested that KLK13 is active in CVF sample since proteolytic activity is detected with immunocaptured fraction using antibody against KLK13. “The cleavage of the fluorescent substrate by immunocaptured KLK13 showed that at least a proportion of KLK13 is present in CVF in its mature, active form, which is not bound to endogenous inhibitors.In addition, the used antibody was produced in the lab. Could authors provide a bibliographic reference illustrating the specificity of the antibody since the group of KLK contains some very similar proteins. In figure 4, it could be informative to highlight KLK13 and TMPRSS11D on graphs. On this figure, it is not clear how is ranked the intensity of each protein. Does it correspond to the quantity of peptides identified by MS/MS for each protein? In discussion section, 2 sentences implied that a direct identification of active protease targeted by ABP was performed. Please, correct these sentences (‘This powerful approach resulted in the identification of serine proteases KLK13 and TMPRSS11D as major active proteolytic enzymes in CVF. ABP proteomics resulted in the identification of KLK13 and TMPRSS11D as active proteases in this complex biological fluid.) Minor comments: Figure 2: The graph represents the “relative trypsin-like activity”. What is the reference? What does NRT mean? The biological concentration of KLK13 is compared to KLK2 and KLK3 in sperm (“The concentration of KLK13 in CVF is approximately 12 mg/L (data not shown); only KLK2 and KLK3 are found at higher concentrations in the male reproductive system). It would be interesting to support this sentence with a bibliographic reference. 