Overview This article reports a difference in the types of single nucleotide polymorphisms observed between the malaria parasites P. falciparum and P. vivax. Specifically, a higher rate of G/C to A/T substitutions is seen in P. vivax than in P. falciparum. The analysis is based on data produced by the Malaria Genomic Epidemiology Network (MalariaGEN, https://www.malariagen.net/). The substitution bias reported in P. vivax is clearly present. This can be observed by using the MalariaGEN Data app at https://www.malariagen.net/apps/pvgv (select Variants tab, click Define query, click + and set Mutation Type Equals S, click OK, click Create plot then Bar graph, Group by: Reference Allele, Secondary group: Alternate Allele, click Create plot). It is clear that C-T and G-A mutations are much more common than other types of substitution. Using this app we can also see that the result continues to hold if we focus only on high frequency mutations (e.g. MAF All = 0.25), though the difference is less dramatic for such variants. It can also be observed that the lack of such substitution bias is present in P. falciparum by using the MalariaGEN Data app for the Pf3k project at https://www.malariagen.net/apps/pf3k (select Variants 3.1 - Samtools Mpileup tab, click Define query, click + and set Is SNP Equals Yes, click + and set Is Coding Equals Yes, click OK, click Create plot then Bar graph, Group by: Reference Allele, Secondary group: Alternate Allele, click Create plot). The substitution bias in P. vivax and lack of such bias in P. falciparum observed by the authors is an interesting result that warrants further explanation. Major points The first and last sentence of the abstract concern responses to drug pressures. This leaves the impression that the manuscript will describe an important result regarding drug pressure. However, there is no evidence provided in the manuscript to support such a result. The hypothesis that the difference in genomic variation seen is due to drug pressure appears to be pure speculation. Unless the authors can provide any evidence that the patterns of genomic variation seen can attributed to drug pressure, such speculation should be removed from the abstract, and if mentioned at all, should only be in the discussion and made clear that this is an unsubstantiated hypothesis. The title of the manuscript describes a "divergent" pattern of genomic variation in the two species. The word divergent suggests that the pattern of genomic variation might be growing apart over time between the two species in some way. However, if the main results holds, and other types of mutation are GC content-neutral, then over time it should be expected that the GC content of P. vivax will decrease, which in this sense would result in the P. vivax genome becoming more like that of P. falciparum, so if anything this might be described as a convergent rather than a divergent pattern. A more accurate description might be that there is a "different" pattern of genomic variation in the two species. The authors describe "similar drug pressure" in P. falciparum and P. vivax, but I think it is well established that the drug pressures are quite different in the two species, so such phrases should be removed. The authors describe a "recent reversal in the substitution bias in P. vivax". In order to make such a claim, the authors would first need to show that there has, until recent times, been an opposite substitution bias in P. vivax, but no such evidence is given, only evidence from others that the GC content of P. vivax might have increased since the common ancestor of P. vivax and P. falciparum, which is not the same as showing an historic substitution bias. Specific points The final sentence of the abstract mentions "similar drug pressures" in P. falciparum and P. vivax. However, I think it is well established that the drug pressures are quite different in the two species, for example due to difference in gametocytogenesis and longevity of gametocytes as discussed in ref 11 by Schneider and Escalante. As stated above, speculation regarding drug pressure should be removed from the abstract. In the first paragraph of the Introduction, it is not stated that there is resistance to chloroquine in P. vivax in some parts of the world. A reader not aware of this might be confused to read the phrase "the mechanism of chloroquine resistance in P. vivax remains unknown", because the previous sentences give no indication that there is any such resistance. It might be helpful to the reader to mention that there is resistance to chloroquine in P. vivax in some parts of the world. The final sentence of the Introduction states that the substitution bias observed may be related to differential evolutionary response to the same anti-malarial drugs. No evidence is given in the remainder of the manuscript to say why this particular hypothesis should be preferred to any other potential hypothesis we might want to imagine. Also, it seems highly unlikely that the substitution bias observed might be related to the differential evolutionary response to the same anti-malarial drugs, as to date only a small number of genomic loci have been shown to be associated with drug resistance, whereas the pattern of substitution bias observed is (presumably) genome-wide. In the first paragraph of the results, the authors use the phrase "We tested whether this is true during the recent evolution of P. vivax". It is not entirely clear what "this" refers to here but presumably the authors are saying they have tested the hypothesis that P. vivax has increased its GC content during recent evolution. However, this is not what they have tested. Firstly, the authors have not apparently considered which is the ancestral and which is the derived allele. The SNPs used are differences from the 3D7 reference genome. The authors appear to have assumed that the substitutions have been from the reference to the alternative allele, but it might be the case that for many of these SNPs, the alternative allele is ancestral and the 3D7 allele is derived. Secondly, it is possible that the GC content could be increasing even if substitutions are biased to decrease GC content, for example if other types of mutation such as short indels, larger structural variants and/or gene conversion result in an increase in GC content. The authors should either make it very clear that their results do not give any definitive conclusions as to the change in GC content over recent evolution, or else should perform a more thorough analysis taking into account the ancestral status of alleles and analysing non-SNP types of genomic variation. The first sentence of the discussion states that the present study finds a sharp recent reversal in the substitution bias in P. vivax. In order to make such a claim, the authors would first need to show that there has, until recent times, been an opposite substitution bias in P. vivax. The authors appear to be making the assumption that a) the conclusion from reference 17 holds (i.e. that the GC content of P. vivax has increased since the common ancestor of P. vivax and P. falciparum) and that b) this increase in GC content was due to substitutions. However, even if a) is true, there is no evidence to support b), and it could be that the GC content has increased due to other types of mutation such as short indels, larger structural variants and/or gene conversion. The authors should remove any reference to reversal in substitution bias unless they can provide evidence of such a reversal. The fourth sentence of the discussion again mentions "similar drug pressures", but as above I think it is well established that the drug pressures are quite different between the species. This sentence should be removed. The final sentence of the first paragraph of the discussion is somewhat unclear, for example what exactly is meant by "these" factors? Also, is it really "likely" that these might contribute towards differences in drug resistance or is this simply "possible". The final paragraph again refers to a recent reversal in the substitution bias in P. vivax. Unless the authors can demonstrate that this is true, this sentence should be removed. It was not clear to me how the observation of lower substitution bias in non-coding regions compared to synonymous sites could be utilized to identify non-coding regions that are under higher functional constraint (final sentence). This should either be explained, or the sentence dropped. 