I was pleased to review this manuscript. I assessed the proposed theoretical framework based on the following criteria: (1) utility, (2) comprehensiveness, (3) parsimony, (4) testability, (5) heurism, and (6) scope. Ironically, these criteria are not part of an established theoretical framework; they only reflect a brief review of the literature on the subject. I would rate the utility of the proposed framework as high. As far as I know, this is one of the first attempts to synthesize the literature on the factors driving reporting bias. Additionally, and as mentioned by the authors, understanding these factors is essential to the development of mitigating measures. I would rate the heurism (i.e. evidence base) of the framework as low. Granted, there is now a large body of literature on the prevalence of reporting bias and on the possible factors driving it. However, virtually none of these studies are experimental, so all the relationships found between the occurrence of reporting bias and the 12 categories are at best correlational – not causal. This is, in my view, the most fundamental flaw of the framework. The good news is, it could be easily addressed by changing the title of the manuscript from “Causes of reporting bias” to “Drivers of reporting bias”. Related to the above-mentioned point, I would rate the testability of the framework as low. The only testable driver of reporting bias is “financial conflict of interests” (FCOI). Most other drivers (prejudice, relationship and collaboration issues, doubts about reporting being worth the effort, etc.) would be hard to test empirically. Virtually none of these drivers can be tested in experimental conditions. I was unable to rate the comprehensiveness of the framework for three reasons. Firstly, and as already mentioned, I do not think that the proposed framework can realistically identify the possible “causes” of reporting bias – let alone all the possible causes. Secondly, the authors constructed the typology based on a “systematic review”, which I haven’t seen. Systematic reviews of narrowly defined questions are notoriously hard to conduct; I don’t think that a review of such a broad question can be truly systematic. Thirdly, I don’t have enough knowledge of the topic to suggest missing/alternative categories. I would rate the parsimony of the framework as medium. On the one hand, I do not think it is possible to propose a parsimonious framework when the scope of the theory is so broad. On the other hand, Table 1 is much more parsimonious than the vast literature it draws on. I would rate the scope of the framework as fairly high. The authors acknowledge that the determinants of the model “are mostly based on research in the biomedical area”. However, I would argue that the 12 categories listed in the framework are also relevant to social research, which is the type of research that I do myself. In conclusion, I am grateful for the authors’ contribution to the literature and do believe that the proposed framework could help the research community address the problem of reporting bias. However, I have some concerns regarding (i) the strength of the evidence used by the authors to make causal claims; and (ii) the testability of the framework. 