I thank the author for providing a revised version of the manuscript. The text is clearer and the discussion includes more comments. However, the data show no major improvement and the statement that DMD is caused essentially by loss of dystrophin in vascular smooth muscle cells, while the lack of protein in myofibres only exacerbates the disease, is not supported by experimental data. This claim challenges hundreds of previous studies and should be supported by solid data. Just as an example Wasala et al. recently showed that a transgenic mouse expressing a minidystrophin gene (ΔH2-R15) driven by the HSA promoter (that induces protein expression only in myofibres) substantially prevented muscular dystrophy in skeletal muscle 1 . Once the minigene was removed from the skeletal muscles of adult mice, the pathology developed. This is a strong indication that muscular dystrophy depends primarily on dystrophin expression in myofibres. Of course this does not exclude a role for the missing dystrophin in other cells that could exacerbate the disease. The author failed to provide solid data to support the claim of the manuscript. They state multiple times that the HSA-Cre/Erbb2/4 dKO does not express dystrophin in myofibres, but this has never been shown previously, neither in this manuscript. They should have demonstrated at least that: In the skeletal muscle of such mouse model (cell culture is not sufficient as a model) myofibres do not express dystrophin while vascular cells do. There are many systems to do so (eg immunostaining in muscle sections is the easiest). In those muscles only vascular cells (but in particular which ones?) express dystrophin. Again, there are standard methodologies to check this as immunostaining, cell sorting and staining etc. Without these data the manuscript is interesting to read, but remains mostly speculative. References 1. Wasala N, Lai Y, Shin J, Zhao J, et al.: Genomic removal of a therapeutic mini-dystrophin gene from adult mice elicits a Duchenne muscular dystrophy-like phenotype. Human Molecular Genetics . 2016. Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Muscular dystrophy, gene therapy I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Malerba A. Reviewer Report For: The root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the lack of dystrophin in smooth muscle of blood vessels rather than in skeletal muscle per se [version 2; peer review: 3 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 7 :1321 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.18799.r41463 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1321/v2#referee-response-41463 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 18 Dec 2018 Nadesan Gajendran , University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland 18 Dec 2018 Author Response I thank the reviewer for reviewing the revised version of the article. The current article 1 supports the notion that the root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a ... Continue reading I thank the reviewer for reviewing the revised version of the article. The current article 1 supports the notion that the root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lack of dystrophin in vascular smooth muscle (VSM). Thus it addresses what causes the onset of dystrophic symptoms in patients suffering from DMD where there is systemic dystrophin deficiency including in skeletal muscle. This is of importance since it suggests that therapeutic attempts should (also) target VSM, which is not always the focus of current therapies. Loss of dystrophin expression as a consequence of abolishing neuregulin (NRG) signalling is directly demonstrated in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes. Our results, together with previous published observations 2 suggest that the absence of dystrophin in vivo in skeletal muscle in HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice is responsible for the observed fragmentation of acetyl choline receptor (AChR) clusters in these mice, similar to that observed in muscles of dystrophin deficient mdx mice. As in mdx mice 3,4 (in reference 4, figure 4B, less dystrobrevin is detected in microsomal preparations from mdx), less α-dystrobrevin1 (α-DB1) is associated with the DAPC in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes strongly suggesting that this is a direct consequence of the absence of dystrophin. Additional results in the current manuscript also show that the AChR cluster fragmentation observed in vitro in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes and in vivo in both HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO and mdx mice is likely caused by a loss of dystrophin which results in the reduced association of α-DB1 with the DAPC 2 and this reduced association is not due to a lack of phosphorylation of α-DB1 1 . Thus we observed that loss of NRG/ERBB signalling results in a loss of dystrophin expression, affecting normal DAPC assembly and AChR cluster formation similarly to that observed in dystrophin deficient mdx mice. However, in contrast to mdx mice, impaired muscle generation is only seen in MCK -CRE/Erbb2 KO mice, where NRG/ERBB signalling and hence dystrophin expression is abolished in both skeletal muscle and VSM, but not in HSA -CRE/Erbb2 KO or HSA -CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 5 where NRG/ERBB signalling is only abolished in skeletal muscles since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM 6 . In contrast to the comments of the reviewer, the current article does not claim that the lack of dystrophin in VSM only would cause muscular dystrophy. Instead, it argues that functional vascular smooth muscle cells with normal dystrophin expression are essential in preventing or delaying the onset of muscular dystrophy when dystrophin is absent in skeletal muscles. This is supported by the observation that dystrophic symptoms are not observed in skeletal muscle of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 1 that otherwise display AChR cluster fragmentation and less dystrobrevin association with the DAPC as in dystrophin deficient mdx myotubes, or when dystrophin expression is prevented in skeletal muscles only 7 . It is also in line with observations of improved muscle performance and reduced muscle degradation in mdx mice 8 or DMD patients 9 treated with PDE-5 inhibitors that restored normal blood vessel function and blood flow during exercise, in spite of the total absence of dystrophin. For obvious reasons previous research has focused on the role of skeletal muscle in dystrophin deficient mdx mice or DMD patients since dystrophic symptoms are observed in skeletal muscle and not in VSM where absence of dystrophin results in aberrant vasoregulation. This aberrant vasoregulation is independent of whether skeletal muscles express dystrophin or not. The observation of the current study, supported by published data, suggests that muscular dystrophy in mice is only observed when dystrophin is lacking in both skeletal muscles and VSM and not in skeletal muscle only, suggesting that it is the lack of dystrophin in VSM, resulting in aberrant vasoregulation that causes the onset of DMD when skeletal muscles lack dystrophin. Hence, absence of dystrophin in VSM only, as is the case for example in the study by Wasala N. et al. that the reviewer refers to 10 , by artificially expressing dystrophin in only skeletal muscle of mdx mice (by using the HSA promoter), will not reveal this role of VSM in the onset of dystrophy observed in situations where dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM such as in mdx mice and DMD patients or MCK-CRE/Erbb2 KO mice that lack NRG/ERBB signalling in skeletal muscle and VSM. Unfortunately, the paper by Wasala N. et al. 10 does not report how well the expression of a mini-dystrophin gene in only skeletal muscle ameliorates muscular dystrophy in mdx mice. Skeletal muscle pathology following expression of mini dystrophin driven by the HSA promoter (in skeletal muscle) was not compared to samples from wild type (wt) or mdx control mice. Instead, the authors refer to three previously published papers 4,11,12 that report the rescue of the dystrophic phenotype when the same mini-dystrophin is expressed using a CMV promoter, which is different from the skeletal muscle specific HSA promoter they used. Thus mini-dystrophin would be expressed in skeletal muscle and VSM in all three previous studies and obviously results in the restoration of muscle function, but it cannot be assumed that the same restoration will be obtained when dystrophin is only expressed in skeletal muscle (by using the HSA promoter). Instead, Wasala N. et al. 10 only compare the skeletal muscle pathology between transgenic mice expressing the HSA-mini-dystrophin and transgenic mice where this mini-dystrophin is again removed after recombination with CRE recombinase. Hence, when more severe dystrophic symptoms are observed by Wasala N. et al. 10 when mini-dystrophin expression is abolished through CRE mediated recombination, it can not only be interpreted, as the authors have done, that the loss of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state, but also that the lack of dystrophin in VSM causing aberrant vasoregulation in combination with a lack of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state which is actually similar to the situation in mdx mice. An experiment to be performed, that is beyond the scope of the current study, would be to generate a conditional dystrophin KO mouse and cross it with the HSA-CRE transgenic mouse to genetically delete dystrophin in skeletal muscles only in order to confirm our results obtained with the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. A dystrophic pathology as observed when dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM, as in mdx mice, would not be expected to be seen in this mouse. The lack of an obvious dystrophic pathology of dystrophin deficient skeletal muscles in mice with functional VSM, and consequently sufficient blood and lymph flow, will allow satellite cells and circulating myeloid cells 13 to support muscle regeneration since it has been demonstrated that satellite cells from mdx mice can regenerate muscle fibers when the host environment is not dystrophic 14 Given that, unlike in humans, satellite cells are not depleted in the DMD mouse model mdx, muscle regeneration can continue during the relatively short life span of the mouse, explaining the milder dystrophic symptoms in mdx mice as compared to DMD patients. In that regard it might even be more important for DMD patients to prevent/delay muscle degeneration by restoring dystrophin expression in VSM as well when therapeutic efforts to restore dystrophin in skeletal muscle are made. The reviewer states that presence/absence of dystrophin should be analysed by for example immunostaining in muscle sections in the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. For the reasons mentioned in the current article (juxtaposition of satellite cells expressing a high level of dystrophin and dystrophin expression in muscle fibers 15 , and contaminating cells or tissues), it is practically not possible to resolve dystrophin expression in muscle sections or myotubes formed from primary myoblasts, although it was possible to observe AChR cluster fragmentation in vitro and in vivo as a consequence of the loss of dystrophin expression (demonstrated in myotubes), an observation that was also made in mdx mice. It would also not add much to the arguments presented in the current article to demonstrate dystrophin expression in VSM in these mice, since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. It is by now well accepted, perhaps considered a general consensus, that DMD is not just the consequence of the loss of structural support due to the loss of dystrophin in skeletal muscles, but rather also due to a combination of disruption of signalling events involving components of the DAPC and inflammation involving immune cells. Thus the concept that aberrant vasoregulation due to a loss of dystrophin expression in VSM, with the lymphatic system also being affected due to systemic dystrophin deficiency, is the root cause of DMD fits rather well with what is known so far. Thus a holistic approach is needed when determining the root cause of DMD and, as a consequence, treatment strategies that would be more complete and long lasting. Bibliography 1. Gajendran, N. The root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the lack of dystrophin in smooth muscle of blood vessels rather than in skeletal muscle per se [version 1; referees: 2 not approved]. F1000Res. 7, 1321 (2018). 2. Schmidt, N. et al. Neuregulin/ErbB regulate neuromuscular junction development by phosphorylation of α-dystrobrevin. J. Cell Biol. 195, 1171–1184 (2011). 3. Blake, D. J. Dystrobrevin dynamics in muscle-cell signalling: a possible target for therapeutic intervention in Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Neuromuscul. Disord. 12 Suppl 1, S110–7 (2002). 4. Lai, Y. et al. Dystrophins carrying spectrin-like repeats 16 and 17 anchor nNOS to the sarcolemma and enhance exercise performance in a mouse model of muscular dystrophy. J. Clin. Invest. 119, 624–635 (2009). 5. Escher, P. et al. Synapses form in skeletal muscles lacking neuregulin receptors. Science 308, 1920–1923 (2005). 6. McCarthy, J. J., Srikuea, R., Kirby, T. J., Peterson, C. A. Esser, K. A. Inducible Cre transgenic mouse strain for skeletal muscle-specific gene targeting. Skelet Muscle 2, 8 (2012). 7. Ghahramani Seno, M. M. et al. RNAi-mediated knockdown of dystrophin expression in adult mice does not lead to overt muscular dystrophy pathology. Hum. Mol. Genet. 17, 2622–2632 (2008). 8. Kobayashi, Y. M. et al. Sarcolemma-localized nNOS is required to maintain activity after mild exercise. Nature 456, 511–515 (2008). 9. Nelson, M. D. et al. PDE5 inhibition alleviates functional muscle ischemia in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Neurology 82, 2085–2091 (2014). 10. Wasala, N. B. et al. Genomic removal of a therapeutic mini-dystrophin gene from adult mice elicits a Duchenne muscular dystrophy-like phenotype. Hum. Mol. Genet. 25, 2633–2644 (2016). 11. Zhang, Y. et al. Dual AAV therapy ameliorates exercise-induced muscle injury and functional ischemia in murine models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Hum. Mol. Genet. 22, 3720–3729 (2013). 12. Zhang, Y. Duan, D. Novel mini-dystrophin gene dual adeno-associated virus vectors restore neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression at the sarcolemma. Hum. Gene Ther. 23, 98–103 (2012). 13. Camargo, F. D., Green, R., Capetanaki, Y., Jackson, K. A. Goodell, M. A. Single hematopoietic stem cells generate skeletal muscle through myeloid intermediates. Nat. Med. 9, 1520–1527 (2003). 14. Boldrin, L., Zammit, P. S. Morgan, J. E. Satellite cells from dystrophic muscle retain regenerative capacity. Stem Cell Res. 14, 20–29 (2015). 15. Dumont, N. A. et al. Dystrophin expression in muscle stem cells regulates their polarity and asymmetric division. Nat. Med. 21, 1455–1463 (2015). I thank the reviewer for reviewing the revised version of the article. The current article 1 supports the notion that the root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lack of dystrophin in vascular smooth muscle (VSM). Thus it addresses what causes the onset of dystrophic symptoms in patients suffering from DMD where there is systemic dystrophin deficiency including in skeletal muscle. This is of importance since it suggests that therapeutic attempts should (also) target VSM, which is not always the focus of current therapies. Loss of dystrophin expression as a consequence of abolishing neuregulin (NRG) signalling is directly demonstrated in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes. Our results, together with previous published observations 2 suggest that the absence of dystrophin in vivo in skeletal muscle in HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice is responsible for the observed fragmentation of acetyl choline receptor (AChR) clusters in these mice, similar to that observed in muscles of dystrophin deficient mdx mice. As in mdx mice 3,4 (in reference 4, figure 4B, less dystrobrevin is detected in microsomal preparations from mdx), less α-dystrobrevin1 (α-DB1) is associated with the DAPC in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes strongly suggesting that this is a direct consequence of the absence of dystrophin. Additional results in the current manuscript also show that the AChR cluster fragmentation observed in vitro in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes and in vivo in both HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO and mdx mice is likely caused by a loss of dystrophin which results in the reduced association of α-DB1 with the DAPC 2 and this reduced association is not due to a lack of phosphorylation of α-DB1 1 . Thus we observed that loss of NRG/ERBB signalling results in a loss of dystrophin expression, affecting normal DAPC assembly and AChR cluster formation similarly to that observed in dystrophin deficient mdx mice. However, in contrast to mdx mice, impaired muscle generation is only seen in MCK -CRE/Erbb2 KO mice, where NRG/ERBB signalling and hence dystrophin expression is abolished in both skeletal muscle and VSM, but not in HSA -CRE/Erbb2 KO or HSA -CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 5 where NRG/ERBB signalling is only abolished in skeletal muscles since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM 6 . In contrast to the comments of the reviewer, the current article does not claim that the lack of dystrophin in VSM only would cause muscular dystrophy. Instead, it argues that functional vascular smooth muscle cells with normal dystrophin expression are essential in preventing or delaying the onset of muscular dystrophy when dystrophin is absent in skeletal muscles. This is supported by the observation that dystrophic symptoms are not observed in skeletal muscle of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 1 that otherwise display AChR cluster fragmentation and less dystrobrevin association with the DAPC as in dystrophin deficient mdx myotubes, or when dystrophin expression is prevented in skeletal muscles only 7 . It is also in line with observations of improved muscle performance and reduced muscle degradation in mdx mice 8 or DMD patients 9 treated with PDE-5 inhibitors that restored normal blood vessel function and blood flow during exercise, in spite of the total absence of dystrophin. For obvious reasons previous research has focused on the role of skeletal muscle in dystrophin deficient mdx mice or DMD patients since dystrophic symptoms are observed in skeletal muscle and not in VSM where absence of dystrophin results in aberrant vasoregulation. This aberrant vasoregulation is independent of whether skeletal muscles express dystrophin or not. The observation of the current study, supported by published data, suggests that muscular dystrophy in mice is only observed when dystrophin is lacking in both skeletal muscles and VSM and not in skeletal muscle only, suggesting that it is the lack of dystrophin in VSM, resulting in aberrant vasoregulation that causes the onset of DMD when skeletal muscles lack dystrophin. Hence, absence of dystrophin in VSM only, as is the case for example in the study by Wasala N. et al. that the reviewer refers to 10 , by artificially expressing dystrophin in only skeletal muscle of mdx mice (by using the HSA promoter), will not reveal this role of VSM in the onset of dystrophy observed in situations where dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM such as in mdx mice and DMD patients or MCK-CRE/Erbb2 KO mice that lack NRG/ERBB signalling in skeletal muscle and VSM. Unfortunately, the paper by Wasala N. et al. 10 does not report how well the expression of a mini-dystrophin gene in only skeletal muscle ameliorates muscular dystrophy in mdx mice. Skeletal muscle pathology following expression of mini dystrophin driven by the HSA promoter (in skeletal muscle) was not compared to samples from wild type (wt) or mdx control mice. Instead, the authors refer to three previously published papers 4,11,12 that report the rescue of the dystrophic phenotype when the same mini-dystrophin is expressed using a CMV promoter, which is different from the skeletal muscle specific HSA promoter they used. Thus mini-dystrophin would be expressed in skeletal muscle and VSM in all three previous studies and obviously results in the restoration of muscle function, but it cannot be assumed that the same restoration will be obtained when dystrophin is only expressed in skeletal muscle (by using the HSA promoter). Instead, Wasala N. et al. 10 only compare the skeletal muscle pathology between transgenic mice expressing the HSA-mini-dystrophin and transgenic mice where this mini-dystrophin is again removed after recombination with CRE recombinase. Hence, when more severe dystrophic symptoms are observed by Wasala N. et al. 10 when mini-dystrophin expression is abolished through CRE mediated recombination, it can not only be interpreted, as the authors have done, that the loss of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state, but also that the lack of dystrophin in VSM causing aberrant vasoregulation in combination with a lack of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state which is actually similar to the situation in mdx mice. An experiment to be performed, that is beyond the scope of the current study, would be to generate a conditional dystrophin KO mouse and cross it with the HSA-CRE transgenic mouse to genetically delete dystrophin in skeletal muscles only in order to confirm our results obtained with the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. A dystrophic pathology as observed when dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM, as in mdx mice, would not be expected to be seen in this mouse. The lack of an obvious dystrophic pathology of dystrophin deficient skeletal muscles in mice with functional VSM, and consequently sufficient blood and lymph flow, will allow satellite cells and circulating myeloid cells 13 to support muscle regeneration since it has been demonstrated that satellite cells from mdx mice can regenerate muscle fibers when the host environment is not dystrophic 14 Given that, unlike in humans, satellite cells are not depleted in the DMD mouse model mdx, muscle regeneration can continue during the relatively short life span of the mouse, explaining the milder dystrophic symptoms in mdx mice as compared to DMD patients. In that regard it might even be more important for DMD patients to prevent/delay muscle degeneration by restoring dystrophin expression in VSM as well when therapeutic efforts to restore dystrophin in skeletal muscle are made. The reviewer states that presence/absence of dystrophin should be analysed by for example immunostaining in muscle sections in the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. For the reasons mentioned in the current article (juxtaposition of satellite cells expressing a high level of dystrophin and dystrophin expression in muscle fibers 15 , and contaminating cells or tissues), it is practically not possible to resolve dystrophin expression in muscle sections or myotubes formed from primary myoblasts, although it was possible to observe AChR cluster fragmentation in vitro and in vivo as a consequence of the loss of dystrophin expression (demonstrated in myotubes), an observation that was also made in mdx mice. It would also not add much to the arguments presented in the current article to demonstrate dystrophin expression in VSM in these mice, since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. It is by now well accepted, perhaps considered a general consensus, that DMD is not just the consequence of the loss of structural support due to the loss of dystrophin in skeletal muscles, but rather also due to a combination of disruption of signalling events involving components of the DAPC and inflammation involving immune cells. Thus the concept that aberrant vasoregulation due to a loss of dystrophin expression in VSM, with the lymphatic system also being affected due to systemic dystrophin deficiency, is the root cause of DMD fits rather well with what is known so far. Thus a holistic approach is needed when determining the root cause of DMD and, as a consequence, treatment strategies that would be more complete and long lasting. Bibliography 1. Gajendran, N. The root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the lack of dystrophin in smooth muscle of blood vessels rather than in skeletal muscle per se [version 1; referees: 2 not approved]. F1000Res. 7, 1321 (2018). 2. Schmidt, N. et al. Neuregulin/ErbB regulate neuromuscular junction development by phosphorylation of α-dystrobrevin. J. Cell Biol. 195, 1171–1184 (2011). 3. Blake, D. J. Dystrobrevin dynamics in muscle-cell signalling: a possible target for therapeutic intervention in Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Neuromuscul. Disord. 12 Suppl 1, S110–7 (2002). 4. Lai, Y. et al. Dystrophins carrying spectrin-like repeats 16 and 17 anchor nNOS to the sarcolemma and enhance exercise performance in a mouse model of muscular dystrophy. J. Clin. Invest. 119, 624–635 (2009). 5. Escher, P. et al. Synapses form in skeletal muscles lacking neuregulin receptors. Science 308, 1920–1923 (2005). 6. McCarthy, J. J., Srikuea, R., Kirby, T. J., Peterson, C. A. Esser, K. A. Inducible Cre transgenic mouse strain for skeletal muscle-specific gene targeting. Skelet Muscle 2, 8 (2012). 7. Ghahramani Seno, M. M. et al. RNAi-mediated knockdown of dystrophin expression in adult mice does not lead to overt muscular dystrophy pathology. Hum. Mol. Genet. 17, 2622–2632 (2008). 8. Kobayashi, Y. M. et al. Sarcolemma-localized nNOS is required to maintain activity after mild exercise. Nature 456, 511–515 (2008). 9. Nelson, M. D. et al. PDE5 inhibition alleviates functional muscle ischemia in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Neurology 82, 2085–2091 (2014). 10. Wasala, N. B. et al. Genomic removal of a therapeutic mini-dystrophin gene from adult mice elicits a Duchenne muscular dystrophy-like phenotype. Hum. Mol. Genet. 25, 2633–2644 (2016). 11. Zhang, Y. et al. Dual AAV therapy ameliorates exercise-induced muscle injury and functional ischemia in murine models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Hum. Mol. Genet. 22, 3720–3729 (2013). 12. Zhang, Y. Duan, D. Novel mini-dystrophin gene dual adeno-associated virus vectors restore neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression at the sarcolemma. Hum. Gene Ther. 23, 98–103 (2012). 13. Camargo, F. D., Green, R., Capetanaki, Y., Jackson, K. A. Goodell, M. A. Single hematopoietic stem cells generate skeletal muscle through myeloid intermediates. Nat. Med. 9, 1520–1527 (2003). 14. Boldrin, L., Zammit, P. S. Morgan, J. E. Satellite cells from dystrophic muscle retain regenerative capacity. Stem Cell Res. 14, 20–29 (2015). 15. Dumont, N. A. et al. Dystrophin expression in muscle stem cells regulates their polarity and asymmetric division. Nat. Med. 21, 1455–1463 (2015). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 18 Dec 2018 Nadesan Gajendran , University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland 18 Dec 2018 Author Response I thank the reviewer for reviewing the revised version of the article. The current article 1 supports the notion that the root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a ... Continue reading I thank the reviewer for reviewing the revised version of the article. The current article 1 supports the notion that the root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lack of dystrophin in vascular smooth muscle (VSM). Thus it addresses what causes the onset of dystrophic symptoms in patients suffering from DMD where there is systemic dystrophin deficiency including in skeletal muscle. This is of importance since it suggests that therapeutic attempts should (also) target VSM, which is not always the focus of current therapies. Loss of dystrophin expression as a consequence of abolishing neuregulin (NRG) signalling is directly demonstrated in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes. Our results, together with previous published observations 2 suggest that the absence of dystrophin in vivo in skeletal muscle in HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice is responsible for the observed fragmentation of acetyl choline receptor (AChR) clusters in these mice, similar to that observed in muscles of dystrophin deficient mdx mice. As in mdx mice 3,4 (in reference 4, figure 4B, less dystrobrevin is detected in microsomal preparations from mdx), less α-dystrobrevin1 (α-DB1) is associated with the DAPC in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes strongly suggesting that this is a direct consequence of the absence of dystrophin. Additional results in the current manuscript also show that the AChR cluster fragmentation observed in vitro in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes and in vivo in both HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO and mdx mice is likely caused by a loss of dystrophin which results in the reduced association of α-DB1 with the DAPC 2 and this reduced association is not due to a lack of phosphorylation of α-DB1 1 . Thus we observed that loss of NRG/ERBB signalling results in a loss of dystrophin expression, affecting normal DAPC assembly and AChR cluster formation similarly to that observed in dystrophin deficient mdx mice. However, in contrast to mdx mice, impaired muscle generation is only seen in MCK -CRE/Erbb2 KO mice, where NRG/ERBB signalling and hence dystrophin expression is abolished in both skeletal muscle and VSM, but not in HSA -CRE/Erbb2 KO or HSA -CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 5 where NRG/ERBB signalling is only abolished in skeletal muscles since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM 6 . In contrast to the comments of the reviewer, the current article does not claim that the lack of dystrophin in VSM only would cause muscular dystrophy. Instead, it argues that functional vascular smooth muscle cells with normal dystrophin expression are essential in preventing or delaying the onset of muscular dystrophy when dystrophin is absent in skeletal muscles. This is supported by the observation that dystrophic symptoms are not observed in skeletal muscle of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 1 that otherwise display AChR cluster fragmentation and less dystrobrevin association with the DAPC as in dystrophin deficient mdx myotubes, or when dystrophin expression is prevented in skeletal muscles only 7 . It is also in line with observations of improved muscle performance and reduced muscle degradation in mdx mice 8 or DMD patients 9 treated with PDE-5 inhibitors that restored normal blood vessel function and blood flow during exercise, in spite of the total absence of dystrophin. For obvious reasons previous research has focused on the role of skeletal muscle in dystrophin deficient mdx mice or DMD patients since dystrophic symptoms are observed in skeletal muscle and not in VSM where absence of dystrophin results in aberrant vasoregulation. This aberrant vasoregulation is independent of whether skeletal muscles express dystrophin or not. The observation of the current study, supported by published data, suggests that muscular dystrophy in mice is only observed when dystrophin is lacking in both skeletal muscles and VSM and not in skeletal muscle only, suggesting that it is the lack of dystrophin in VSM, resulting in aberrant vasoregulation that causes the onset of DMD when skeletal muscles lack dystrophin. Hence, absence of dystrophin in VSM only, as is the case for example in the study by Wasala N. et al. that the reviewer refers to 10 , by artificially expressing dystrophin in only skeletal muscle of mdx mice (by using the HSA promoter), will not reveal this role of VSM in the onset of dystrophy observed in situations where dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM such as in mdx mice and DMD patients or MCK-CRE/Erbb2 KO mice that lack NRG/ERBB signalling in skeletal muscle and VSM. Unfortunately, the paper by Wasala N. et al. 10 does not report how well the expression of a mini-dystrophin gene in only skeletal muscle ameliorates muscular dystrophy in mdx mice. Skeletal muscle pathology following expression of mini dystrophin driven by the HSA promoter (in skeletal muscle) was not compared to samples from wild type (wt) or mdx control mice. Instead, the authors refer to three previously published papers 4,11,12 that report the rescue of the dystrophic phenotype when the same mini-dystrophin is expressed using a CMV promoter, which is different from the skeletal muscle specific HSA promoter they used. Thus mini-dystrophin would be expressed in skeletal muscle and VSM in all three previous studies and obviously results in the restoration of muscle function, but it cannot be assumed that the same restoration will be obtained when dystrophin is only expressed in skeletal muscle (by using the HSA promoter). Instead, Wasala N. et al. 10 only compare the skeletal muscle pathology between transgenic mice expressing the HSA-mini-dystrophin and transgenic mice where this mini-dystrophin is again removed after recombination with CRE recombinase. Hence, when more severe dystrophic symptoms are observed by Wasala N. et al. 10 when mini-dystrophin expression is abolished through CRE mediated recombination, it can not only be interpreted, as the authors have done, that the loss of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state, but also that the lack of dystrophin in VSM causing aberrant vasoregulation in combination with a lack of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state which is actually similar to the situation in mdx mice. An experiment to be performed, that is beyond the scope of the current study, would be to generate a conditional dystrophin KO mouse and cross it with the HSA-CRE transgenic mouse to genetically delete dystrophin in skeletal muscles only in order to confirm our results obtained with the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. A dystrophic pathology as observed when dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM, as in mdx mice, would not be expected to be seen in this mouse. The lack of an obvious dystrophic pathology of dystrophin deficient skeletal muscles in mice with functional VSM, and consequently sufficient blood and lymph flow, will allow satellite cells and circulating myeloid cells 13 to support muscle regeneration since it has been demonstrated that satellite cells from mdx mice can regenerate muscle fibers when the host environment is not dystrophic 14 Given that, unlike in humans, satellite cells are not depleted in the DMD mouse model mdx, muscle regeneration can continue during the relatively short life span of the mouse, explaining the milder dystrophic symptoms in mdx mice as compared to DMD patients. In that regard it might even be more important for DMD patients to prevent/delay muscle degeneration by restoring dystrophin expression in VSM as well when therapeutic efforts to restore dystrophin in skeletal muscle are made. The reviewer states that presence/absence of dystrophin should be analysed by for example immunostaining in muscle sections in the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. For the reasons mentioned in the current article (juxtaposition of satellite cells expressing a high level of dystrophin and dystrophin expression in muscle fibers 15 , and contaminating cells or tissues), it is practically not possible to resolve dystrophin expression in muscle sections or myotubes formed from primary myoblasts, although it was possible to observe AChR cluster fragmentation in vitro and in vivo as a consequence of the loss of dystrophin expression (demonstrated in myotubes), an observation that was also made in mdx mice. It would also not add much to the arguments presented in the current article to demonstrate dystrophin expression in VSM in these mice, since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. It is by now well accepted, perhaps considered a general consensus, that DMD is not just the consequence of the loss of structural support due to the loss of dystrophin in skeletal muscles, but rather also due to a combination of disruption of signalling events involving components of the DAPC and inflammation involving immune cells. Thus the concept that aberrant vasoregulation due to a loss of dystrophin expression in VSM, with the lymphatic system also being affected due to systemic dystrophin deficiency, is the root cause of DMD fits rather well with what is known so far. Thus a holistic approach is needed when determining the root cause of DMD and, as a consequence, treatment strategies that would be more complete and long lasting. Bibliography 1. Gajendran, N. The root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the lack of dystrophin in smooth muscle of blood vessels rather than in skeletal muscle per se [version 1; referees: 2 not approved]. F1000Res. 7, 1321 (2018). 2. Schmidt, N. et al. Neuregulin/ErbB regulate neuromuscular junction development by phosphorylation of α-dystrobrevin. J. Cell Biol. 195, 1171–1184 (2011). 3. Blake, D. J. Dystrobrevin dynamics in muscle-cell signalling: a possible target for therapeutic intervention in Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Neuromuscul. Disord. 12 Suppl 1, S110–7 (2002). 4. Lai, Y. et al. Dystrophins carrying spectrin-like repeats 16 and 17 anchor nNOS to the sarcolemma and enhance exercise performance in a mouse model of muscular dystrophy. J. Clin. Invest. 119, 624–635 (2009). 5. Escher, P. et al. Synapses form in skeletal muscles lacking neuregulin receptors. Science 308, 1920–1923 (2005). 6. McCarthy, J. J., Srikuea, R., Kirby, T. J., Peterson, C. A. Esser, K. A. Inducible Cre transgenic mouse strain for skeletal muscle-specific gene targeting. Skelet Muscle 2, 8 (2012). 7. Ghahramani Seno, M. M. et al. RNAi-mediated knockdown of dystrophin expression in adult mice does not lead to overt muscular dystrophy pathology. Hum. Mol. Genet. 17, 2622–2632 (2008). 8. Kobayashi, Y. M. et al. Sarcolemma-localized nNOS is required to maintain activity after mild exercise. Nature 456, 511–515 (2008). 9. Nelson, M. D. et al. PDE5 inhibition alleviates functional muscle ischemia in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Neurology 82, 2085–2091 (2014). 10. Wasala, N. B. et al. Genomic removal of a therapeutic mini-dystrophin gene from adult mice elicits a Duchenne muscular dystrophy-like phenotype. Hum. Mol. Genet. 25, 2633–2644 (2016). 11. Zhang, Y. et al. Dual AAV therapy ameliorates exercise-induced muscle injury and functional ischemia in murine models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Hum. Mol. Genet. 22, 3720–3729 (2013). 12. Zhang, Y. Duan, D. Novel mini-dystrophin gene dual adeno-associated virus vectors restore neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression at the sarcolemma. Hum. Gene Ther. 23, 98–103 (2012). 13. Camargo, F. D., Green, R., Capetanaki, Y., Jackson, K. A. Goodell, M. A. Single hematopoietic stem cells generate skeletal muscle through myeloid intermediates. Nat. Med. 9, 1520–1527 (2003). 14. Boldrin, L., Zammit, P. S. Morgan, J. E. Satellite cells from dystrophic muscle retain regenerative capacity. Stem Cell Res. 14, 20–29 (2015). 15. Dumont, N. A. et al. Dystrophin expression in muscle stem cells regulates their polarity and asymmetric division. Nat. Med. 21, 1455–1463 (2015). I thank the reviewer for reviewing the revised version of the article. The current article 1 supports the notion that the root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lack of dystrophin in vascular smooth muscle (VSM). Thus it addresses what causes the onset of dystrophic symptoms in patients suffering from DMD where there is systemic dystrophin deficiency including in skeletal muscle. This is of importance since it suggests that therapeutic attempts should (also) target VSM, which is not always the focus of current therapies. Loss of dystrophin expression as a consequence of abolishing neuregulin (NRG) signalling is directly demonstrated in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes. Our results, together with previous published observations 2 suggest that the absence of dystrophin in vivo in skeletal muscle in HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice is responsible for the observed fragmentation of acetyl choline receptor (AChR) clusters in these mice, similar to that observed in muscles of dystrophin deficient mdx mice. As in mdx mice 3,4 (in reference 4, figure 4B, less dystrobrevin is detected in microsomal preparations from mdx), less α-dystrobrevin1 (α-DB1) is associated with the DAPC in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes strongly suggesting that this is a direct consequence of the absence of dystrophin. Additional results in the current manuscript also show that the AChR cluster fragmentation observed in vitro in Erbb2/4 dKO myotubes and in vivo in both HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO and mdx mice is likely caused by a loss of dystrophin which results in the reduced association of α-DB1 with the DAPC 2 and this reduced association is not due to a lack of phosphorylation of α-DB1 1 . Thus we observed that loss of NRG/ERBB signalling results in a loss of dystrophin expression, affecting normal DAPC assembly and AChR cluster formation similarly to that observed in dystrophin deficient mdx mice. However, in contrast to mdx mice, impaired muscle generation is only seen in MCK -CRE/Erbb2 KO mice, where NRG/ERBB signalling and hence dystrophin expression is abolished in both skeletal muscle and VSM, but not in HSA -CRE/Erbb2 KO or HSA -CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 5 where NRG/ERBB signalling is only abolished in skeletal muscles since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM 6 . In contrast to the comments of the reviewer, the current article does not claim that the lack of dystrophin in VSM only would cause muscular dystrophy. Instead, it argues that functional vascular smooth muscle cells with normal dystrophin expression are essential in preventing or delaying the onset of muscular dystrophy when dystrophin is absent in skeletal muscles. This is supported by the observation that dystrophic symptoms are not observed in skeletal muscle of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice 1 that otherwise display AChR cluster fragmentation and less dystrobrevin association with the DAPC as in dystrophin deficient mdx myotubes, or when dystrophin expression is prevented in skeletal muscles only 7 . It is also in line with observations of improved muscle performance and reduced muscle degradation in mdx mice 8 or DMD patients 9 treated with PDE-5 inhibitors that restored normal blood vessel function and blood flow during exercise, in spite of the total absence of dystrophin. For obvious reasons previous research has focused on the role of skeletal muscle in dystrophin deficient mdx mice or DMD patients since dystrophic symptoms are observed in skeletal muscle and not in VSM where absence of dystrophin results in aberrant vasoregulation. This aberrant vasoregulation is independent of whether skeletal muscles express dystrophin or not. The observation of the current study, supported by published data, suggests that muscular dystrophy in mice is only observed when dystrophin is lacking in both skeletal muscles and VSM and not in skeletal muscle only, suggesting that it is the lack of dystrophin in VSM, resulting in aberrant vasoregulation that causes the onset of DMD when skeletal muscles lack dystrophin. Hence, absence of dystrophin in VSM only, as is the case for example in the study by Wasala N. et al. that the reviewer refers to 10 , by artificially expressing dystrophin in only skeletal muscle of mdx mice (by using the HSA promoter), will not reveal this role of VSM in the onset of dystrophy observed in situations where dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM such as in mdx mice and DMD patients or MCK-CRE/Erbb2 KO mice that lack NRG/ERBB signalling in skeletal muscle and VSM. Unfortunately, the paper by Wasala N. et al. 10 does not report how well the expression of a mini-dystrophin gene in only skeletal muscle ameliorates muscular dystrophy in mdx mice. Skeletal muscle pathology following expression of mini dystrophin driven by the HSA promoter (in skeletal muscle) was not compared to samples from wild type (wt) or mdx control mice. Instead, the authors refer to three previously published papers 4,11,12 that report the rescue of the dystrophic phenotype when the same mini-dystrophin is expressed using a CMV promoter, which is different from the skeletal muscle specific HSA promoter they used. Thus mini-dystrophin would be expressed in skeletal muscle and VSM in all three previous studies and obviously results in the restoration of muscle function, but it cannot be assumed that the same restoration will be obtained when dystrophin is only expressed in skeletal muscle (by using the HSA promoter). Instead, Wasala N. et al. 10 only compare the skeletal muscle pathology between transgenic mice expressing the HSA-mini-dystrophin and transgenic mice where this mini-dystrophin is again removed after recombination with CRE recombinase. Hence, when more severe dystrophic symptoms are observed by Wasala N. et al. 10 when mini-dystrophin expression is abolished through CRE mediated recombination, it can not only be interpreted, as the authors have done, that the loss of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state, but also that the lack of dystrophin in VSM causing aberrant vasoregulation in combination with a lack of mini-dystrophin in skeletal muscle causes a dystrophic state which is actually similar to the situation in mdx mice. An experiment to be performed, that is beyond the scope of the current study, would be to generate a conditional dystrophin KO mouse and cross it with the HSA-CRE transgenic mouse to genetically delete dystrophin in skeletal muscles only in order to confirm our results obtained with the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. A dystrophic pathology as observed when dystrophin is absent in both skeletal muscle and VSM, as in mdx mice, would not be expected to be seen in this mouse. The lack of an obvious dystrophic pathology of dystrophin deficient skeletal muscles in mice with functional VSM, and consequently sufficient blood and lymph flow, will allow satellite cells and circulating myeloid cells 13 to support muscle regeneration since it has been demonstrated that satellite cells from mdx mice can regenerate muscle fibers when the host environment is not dystrophic 14 Given that, unlike in humans, satellite cells are not depleted in the DMD mouse model mdx, muscle regeneration can continue during the relatively short life span of the mouse, explaining the milder dystrophic symptoms in mdx mice as compared to DMD patients. In that regard it might even be more important for DMD patients to prevent/delay muscle degeneration by restoring dystrophin expression in VSM as well when therapeutic efforts to restore dystrophin in skeletal muscle are made. The reviewer states that presence/absence of dystrophin should be analysed by for example immunostaining in muscle sections in the HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. For the reasons mentioned in the current article (juxtaposition of satellite cells expressing a high level of dystrophin and dystrophin expression in muscle fibers 15 , and contaminating cells or tissues), it is practically not possible to resolve dystrophin expression in muscle sections or myotubes formed from primary myoblasts, although it was possible to observe AChR cluster fragmentation in vitro and in vivo as a consequence of the loss of dystrophin expression (demonstrated in myotubes), an observation that was also made in mdx mice. It would also not add much to the arguments presented in the current article to demonstrate dystrophin expression in VSM in these mice, since the HSA promoter is not active in VSM of HSA-CRE/Erbb2/4 dKO mice. It is by now well accepted, perhaps considered a general consensus, that DMD is not just the consequence of the loss of structural support due to the loss of dystrophin in skeletal muscles, but rather also due to a combination of disruption of signalling events involving components of the DAPC and inflammation involving immune cells. Thus the concept that aberrant vasoregulation due to a loss of dystrophin expression in VSM, with the lymphatic system also being affected due to systemic dystrophin deficiency, is the root cause of DMD fits rather well with what is known so far. Thus a holistic approach is needed when determining the root cause of DMD and, as a consequence, treatment strategies that would be more complete and long lasting. Bibliography 1. Gajendran, N. The root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the lack of dystrophin in smooth muscle of blood vessels rather than in skeletal muscle per se [version 1; referees: 2 not approved]. F1000Res. 7, 1321 (2018). 2. Schmidt, N. et al. Neuregulin/ErbB regulate neuromuscular junction development by phosphorylation of α-dystrobrevin. J. Cell Biol. 195, 1171–1184 (2011). 3. Blake, D. J. Dystrobrevin dynamics in muscle-cell signalling: a possible target for therapeutic intervention in Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Neuromuscul. Disord. 12 Suppl 1, S110–7 (2002). 4. Lai, Y. et al. Dystrophins carrying spectrin-like repeats 16 and 17 anchor nNOS to the sarcolemma and enhance exercise performance in a mouse model of muscular dystrophy. J. Clin. Invest. 119, 624–635 (2009). 5. Escher, P. et al. Synapses form in skeletal muscles lacking neuregulin receptors. Science 308, 1920–1923 (2005). 6. McCarthy, J. J., Srikuea, R., Kirby, T. J., Peterson, C. A. Esser, K. A. Inducible Cre transgenic mouse strain for skeletal muscle-specific gene targeting. Skelet Muscle 2, 8 (2012). 7. Ghahramani Seno, M. M. et al. RNAi-mediated knockdown of dystrophin expression in adult mice does not lead to overt muscular dystrophy pathology. Hum. Mol. Genet. 17, 2622–2632 (2008). 8. Kobayashi, Y. M. et al. Sarcolemma-localized nNOS is required to maintain activity after mild exercise. Nature 456, 511–515 (2008). 9. Nelson, M. D. et al. PDE5 inhibition alleviates functional muscle ischemia in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Neurology 82, 2085–2091 (2014). 10. Wasala, N. B. et al. Genomic removal of a therapeutic mini-dystrophin gene from adult mice elicits a Duchenne muscular dystrophy-like phenotype. Hum. Mol. Genet. 25, 2633–2644 (2016). 11. Zhang, Y. et al. Dual AAV therapy ameliorates exercise-induced muscle injury and functional ischemia in murine models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Hum. Mol. Genet. 22, 3720–3729 (2013). 12. Zhang, Y. Duan, D. Novel mini-dystrophin gene dual adeno-associated virus vectors restore neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression at the sarcolemma. Hum. Gene Ther. 23, 98–103 (2012). 13. Camargo, F. D., Green, R., Capetanaki, Y., Jackson, K. A. Goodell, M. A. Single hematopoietic stem cells generate skeletal muscle through myeloid intermediates. Nat. Med. 9, 1520–1527 (2003). 14. Boldrin, L., Zammit, P. S. Morgan, J. E. Satellite cells from dystrophic muscle retain regenerative capacity. Stem Cell Res. 14, 20–29 (2015). 15. Dumont, N. A. et al. Dystrophin expression in muscle stem cells regulates their polarity and asymmetric division. Nat. Med. 21, 1455–1463 (2015). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 20 Aug 2018 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Malerba A. Reviewer Report For: The root cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the lack of dystrophin in smooth muscle of blood vessels rather than in skeletal muscle per se [version 2; peer review: 3 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 7 :1321 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.17347.r39666 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1321/v1#referee-response-39666 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 29 Oct 2018 Alberto Malerba , Centres of Gene and Cell therapy and Biomedical sciences, School of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, UK Not Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.17347.r39666 This manuscript suggests the possibility that the lack of dystrophin expression in cell types different than myofibers is the cause of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). In particular smooth muscle cells are proposed to be the cells responsible for the disease. ... Continue reading READ ALL 