Goicoechea et al. have examined GIT1 expression in primary breast cancers and metastatic lymph nodes a cohort of Estrogen Receptor positive (ER+) patients. While high or low GIT1 overexpression in the primary tumor does not associate with patient survival, a discordance between high GIT1 in primary tumor and low GIT1 in metastatic lymph nodes is significantly associated with reduced time to metastatic recurrence and reduced patient survival. The authors suggest that this discordance is an independent prognostic indicator of poor outcome in ER+ patients. A further analysis of published datasets shows that GIT1 mRNA level is elevated in multiple breast cancer subtypes, but this overexpression is lowest in ER+ cancers, and that low GIT1 is associated with worse outcomes in triple negative breast cancer. The strength of the paper is in the survival curves in Figure 2, showing that the GIT1-high primary tumor/GIT1-low lymph node metastatic (+/-) subgroup is significantly worse off than patients with either always high or always low GIT1 level. This could be a very significant finding. However, there are several major concerns: The study relies on the specificity of a single GIT1 polyclonal antiserum from Bethyl. The authors should list the specific lots of antisera utilized, and describe the characterization they have performed to be assured that this antiserum is in fact detecting GIT1, and not also the related GIT2 protein or even other unrelated proteins. Is similar IHC data obtained using distinct anti-GIT1 antisera? The authors should also show and point out adjacent normal breast epithelial tissue (and lymph node tissue) for comparison. The authors should consider making all primary IHC image files available as supplemental material. Regarding the metastatic lymph nodes, what evidence is there that these cells are in fact metastatic? If other markers were used, they should be mentioned. The histology of the lymph nodes in Supp Fig 1, at the magnification shown, makes it impossible to distinguish normal lymphocytes from metastatic epithelial-like cells. Again, it would be helpful to include and mark adjacent non-tumor tissue. The IHC figures should include scale bars in each micrograph for size. It is particularly worrying in Figure 1A that the cell nuclei are all substantially larger than those in the other panels of that figure. The cells themselves also appear larger. Table 5 appears confusing because the description is incomplete. Please clarify what was compared in each case (likely just explicitly referring to Table 4). That is, among the patient cohort, what number and percentage of patients had distant metastasis? Define what histology grades are compared here (I vs II vs III, pooling of subgroups I and II vs III, etc)? What are +/- patients compared to, all other patients or just a subgroup? The table as shown also does not include a description of how the p=0.002 value reported in the text was obtained. Surely the Hazard ratio of 300000+ in Table 5 is a typo? The discussion of the functions and cancer-associations of GIT1 is inadequate and incorrect. GIT1 is not “part of the Arf and Rho families of GTPases” as it is not a GTPase itself, but instead is a GTPase regulator (GTPase activating protein - deactivator - for Arf). GIT1 functional interactions with the Rho pathway, and with PAK, require an additional GIT1 partner, PIX, which is a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (activator). The authors should carefully read two recent reviews that discuss GIT1 and cancer to distill the current understanding of GIT1 function 1 , 2 , and then present a clearer and more accurate description of what GIT1 does and therefore why this discordance between primary and metastatic tumor might explain the differential patient survival rates they have discovered. Minor presentation/formatting issues: The authors need to be consistent in their presentation of numerical values. Values are presented in the European style with a comma separating a number from fractional values in all of the data tables (“4,843”), but in the American style using a period in the text itself (“4.843”). This is confusing. The datasets are provided as Excel spreadsheets, but with all values for each patient shown within a single cell, separated by semicolons. It would make this data more immediately accessible to provide either Excel spreadsheets with the distinct values for each patient in individual cells already, or to provide this data in a less platform-dependent manner, such as CSV tables with commas between values for each patient, which can be readily imported into any statistics program. In Fig 2A and Fig 3E, GIT1 is labeled as “GIT-1” It is beyond the scope of this study, but an interesting mechanistic question is, since GIT1 works hand-in-hand with PIX proteins and they regulate each others’ stability and expression, do PIX levels also change in GIT1 high vs low expressing tumors? 