All available reports in the literature emphasize the extreme musculoskeletal challenges in the course and managements of patients with arthrochalasia-type (formerly type VIIA and VIIB; OMIM 130060 ) Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), and indicate no progress in effective therapy regardless of whether it is nonsurgical or surgical. All sorts of orthopaedic surgical interventions have been tried to improve patient gait and/or mobility, however, they all typically produce disappointing outcomes, thereby justifying surgery for only selected and specific indications in favor of physical therapy and/or bracing. The case report by van Rooij et al. describes a patient with arthrochalasia-type EDS who has the characteristic severe musculoskeletal phenotype, specifically related to profound joint laxity and severe muscular hypotonia. The authors report a case of a girl with arthrochalasia EDS exhibiting phenotypic features typical for the disease (congenital bilateral hip dislocations, multiple and recurrent other joint sub- or dislocations, severe muscle hypotonia, velvety skin, facial signs) with the diagnosis confirmed genetically with a presence of COL1A mutation. Considering the protracted bilateral hip dislocation combined with severe muscle hypotonia any intervention, surgical or nonsurgical, had a very poor chance for tangible improvement of the patients mobility. Furthermore, the skin fragility and abnormity posed significant risk for developing laceration, bruises, healing problems, thereby limiting all possible treatment options. Because the patient developed bilateral equinovarus foot deformity, and subsequent contractures and joint stiffness prevented a conservative treatment, the decision was made to surgically correct the foot deformity. Postsurgical cast treatment was uneventful, and ultimately a satisfactory outcome was achieved. This surgical intervention prompted the authors to discuss the challenges with any orthopaedic intervention for arthrochalasia-type EDS patients, and focus on the importance of identifying true surgical goals, while accepting high risk for complications. The manuscript comprises a valuable reminder about the formidable treatment challenges that exist for these patientsthe cases fortunately very rare. There are, however, some inconsistencies and/or deficiencies in providing important and complete information about the case. The patients age is contradictorily specified (i.e., 3 years old in the Introduction versus 6 years old in the Medical history section), and it remains unclear if any - and if so, what - treatment was performed to address the congenital bilateral hip dislocation, and how this was tolerated by the patient. The reader would also benefit from a more thorough discussion on the benefits and risks of early versus late surgical treatment, and the specific goals of surgery, if it is indeed indicated for these patients. 