The manuscript describes the efforts within the ELIXIR project to improve teaching of essential data analysis skills that are currently lacking in the research community. To do so, the Pilot action for "Working up and building the foundation for Data Carpentry (DC) and Software Carpentry (SC) within ELIXIR" aims at launch DC and SC workshops under the umbrella of ELIXIR benefit from the existing qualified instructor pool and support the training of a pool of instructors within the ELIXIR community contribute to the DC/SC community in general by growing the number of instructors (point above), and develop or adapt new material dedicated to life sciences. The manuscript reports on this pilot action. The article also provides a good overview of the interaction between ELIXIR and the Carpentries, and how the latter can contribute to the research community through specific organisations. I have two specific suggestions that could possibly further improve the paper. Firstly, there are several references to roles without ever specifying who these people were. Some clues are given in the author contributions section, but it would be useful to name those contributors directly. For example in "The close collaboration between the UK Node and the SSI substantially facilitated the delivery of the Pilot - one of the key people involved in writing the proposal and delivering the Pilot was the training lead at the SSI at the time, and the deputy head of the UK Node was a co-investigator at the SSI." it would be helpful to know who was the person that facilitated the collaboration between the UK Node and SSI. Similarly, in "We sent a request for volunteers (one per Node) to step in and become a SWC/DC Coordinator for their Nodes." It would be useful the name those volunteers. Getting credit for such efforts is important to support the kind of activities that are promoted by the pilot action, as it relies, as are Carpentries workshops themselves, on volunteering. In addition, I feel that being explicit as to whom did what would help consolidating a wider community around the effort. My second point relates to the assessment of success, both in terms of new instructors and participants. Do the authors have data on whether the newly trained instructors have they been helpers, (lead) instructors or organised workshops themselves, and have they been able to follow up with workshop participants to assess to what extend they apply what they have learnt. I spotted one typo in the introduction: "It coordinates and sustains bioinformatics resources across its member states and help[s] researchers ...". 