This is a well written, interesting and well executed study showing similarities between honey bee and Drosophila vitellogenin , but with neither extending lifespan nor effecting fecundity when over expressed in flies. The study also offers an important lesson in using controls in UAS-GAL4 systems. The purpose was to ask whether the most closely related gene in Drosophila to the vitellogenin gene in honey bee is also involved in aging. This was a long shot from the level of homology but a question worth asking. The results were basically negative but the authors also found very clear and striking effects in the controls that anyone using the UAS-GAL4 system should be aware of. There are several points that the authors should consider addressing in their revision: Are all five of the transgenic sets on the same genetic background? It is not clear from the methods where the w 1118 flies were sourced and there is no mention of backcrossing. If they came from different sources it is possible that the backgrounds might be different making comparisons across the five less meaningful. Even if the backgrounds are not exactly the same the on/off nature of the UAS-GAL4 system in the same lines still means the effects are real within each pair. Another interpretation of the longevity results is that the honey bee Vg and fly homolog both blocked the effect of GAL4 instead of the authors interpretation that over expression of both of these genes decrease lifespan. This is an important because it might be overreaching to interpret the results as a shortening of lifespan in general unless one assumes the effects of GAL4 and the Vg genes are independent and additive. The authors should start off the discussion with an important positive result they neglected to point out, that both the honey bee and the fly Vg genes showed exactly the same effects on both longevity and fecundity. The consistent results from the two Vg s might be saying they share some functions. Hence the previously seen effect on aging is only in honey bees and not flies. I realise that this is a weak supposition given that fecundity was not changed and that only a control effect may have been reversed in the aging experiment, but the fact that both gave exactly the same results is consistent with the central hypothesis that the two have homologous functions. I think there is a mis-wording at the end of the second sentence of the 5 th paragraph in the Discussion. Remove that they decreased . The point is that fecundity was not reduced when you consider the effect seen in the control. ​Early on in the honeybee vitellogenin story there was a suggestion that it increased lifespan by acting as an anti-oxidant. If this was the case then one might have expected to see an increase in lifespan in the Drosophila as well. The fact that this did not happen suggests that honeybee vitellogenin is working in bees in another manner. On the other hand, antioxidants can decrease lifespan in some Drosophila genetic backgrounds in which case they see Vg s functioning in exactly the same way in both flies and bees (assuming the GAL4 is additive). Although this is all speculative, it still might be worth going into a bit more detail about what is known and thought about the molecular mechanisms underpinning how Vg effects aging in honey bees and more clearly define the a priori predictions. Summary: The title is appropriate ​ Abstract is adequate Everything is well explained and presented The conclusions are sound and sufficiently conservative, I do make some suggestions above. 