The authors present a cost-consequences analysis of a family nurse (FNP) led intervention (versus usual care) to support teenage mothers in England. The analysis is based on approximately 1600 participants recruited to the Building Blocks RCT. The randomised design and size of the study should provide robust results for policy makers. Given the diverse range of costs and outcomes a cost consequence analysis is a reasonable and appropriate approach to take. The pragmatic approach to address missing data also appeared to be reasonable given the context. Key outcomes and cost-utility data from this trial have already been reported (Robling et al. 2016 1 ; Corbacho et al. 2017 2 ). Therefore, the contribution of this paper is largely in providing additional details about health (and wider) resource use in each arm of the trial. The results show that there is little difference in either resource uptake or associated costs between FNP and usual care. The authors conclude that the intervention is unlikely to be cost-effective. The authors suggest that previous positive results from US studies might not be replicated in England due to more extensive existing access to maternity care in the UK. There are several issues that should be clarified: In Table 3, it would be useful to report the total healthcare costs to establish the aggregate cost differences (and 95% CI) between FNP and usual care. These total costs are briefly mentioned on page 9 (paragraph 2) but do not appear in Table 3. The cost of the FNP intervention itself should be included in Table 3. These are only introduced in the discussion section currently. Inclusion in Table 3 should allow the authors to estimate the net incremental healthcare costs of FNP. Although there is no one agreed approach to inflating costs across difference sectors of the economy, the approach taken by the authors (of not standardizing cost years) seems unsatisfactory as it does not allow the estimation of total costs (healthcare and other sectors) that would be useful for readers/policy makers. A GDP deflator index - while not perfect - would be a better starting point. Page 9 (paragraph 3): median values are not presented in table 3. A brief description of the intervention theory and aims and the eligibility criteria would help this article 'stand alone' from previous articles. 