The article is nicely written but sadly, there are elements of discussion which are absent from the paper. If added, the papers research on mycobacteriophages using alignment-free analysis would have much more support. The choice of TUDs as statistics for the alignment-free analysis is not fully explained /justified, nor is there much discussion about what algorithm or method is being employed by the analysis tools of the paper. Are TUDs frequencies? How do these software tools work? An simple example of how to calculate a TUD and apply it to a method is necessary to completely understand what they are and to see how they are different from any other motif frequency calculation applied to some other method. The assumptions of the methods are not discussed. Many methods from information theory, statistics and other kinds of mathematics require that the input data meets specific requirements (is normal, has a certain distribution, is a frequency, etc.). From the discussion in this paper, the function of analysis tool (the exact algorithm or method) is never clear and so we cannot be sure that the calculations from this work, as applied to these tools, is appropriate. For instance, many tools in information theory require that frequencies be used for their analysis. These frequencies must pass basic rules to be called as such (i.e., found on the scale of 0 to 1, all frequencies must sum to 1, 0 = false, 1 = true). This discussion is not mentioned and if it were, then the choice to used TUDs could be easily integrated into this discussion. The manuscript mentioned that k-mers in the range of two to seven were calculated (Methods Section). Where are the results for all these other values of k={2, 3, 5 and 7} which were not the k={4 and 6} results of the article? Although other sizes of motifs where apparently used in the analysis, the manuscript focuses on the length-4 motifs. The choice of k=4 for the size of motifs to study is not a very interesting statistic since the probability of a particular length-4 motif showing up randomly in a sequence not very high (1/(4^4) = 1/256). Given that the frequency of mutations, and all the evolutionary time during which to make changes to a sequence, these length=4 similar motifs are likely to randomly turn-up. The authors should consider using the occurrence of motifs which are at least seven since these frequencies begin to become less randomly placed. Length-4 words are already common in many many bacteria as restriction sites for restriction enzymes. The authors will also find that there are restriction sites of length-6 for the same purpose and so they will have to remove all restriction enzyme palindromes from their sets of k=4 or 6 sized motifs if they cannot continue with a longer motif length. However, if they are determining the level of conservation between organisms, then having longer motifs should not hurt their results. Once these issues are addressed, the manuscript will be much stronger.