The article addresses an issue that is receiving renewed interest in recent years - research capacity strengthening (RCS), and the particular challenge of evaluating outputs, outcomes and impacts of RCS initiatives. The study undertook a structured review of RCS indicators in the published and grey literature. Key findings included the identification of rather few examples of quality RCS, with emphasis on four focal areas (research management and support, skill and knowledge development, research collaboration and knowledge transfer. The study concludes that there is significant room for development of indicators, and consequently the potential adoption of these to allow a more systematic approach to RCS approaches and to their subsequent evaluation. The study is clearly presented and has a solid methodology. The validity of the findings rest on the extent to which the systematic review did identify published material that engages in this issue. As the authors note, it is likely that there is a wider body of grey literature in the form of project and program reports that were not located through the search. This suggests that there is need for more published work on this topic (making the paper therefore relevant and useful), and perhaps reinforces a wider view that many RCS efforts are inadequately evaluated (or not evaluated at all). An earlier World Bank Institute report on evaluation of training (Taschereau, 2010 1 ), for example, had highlighted challenges in evaluation of the impact of training and institutional development programs. The study refers briefly to RCS interventions, taking training as an example, but this only related to training which makes up a small percentage of the overall efforts towards RCS. It would be very interesting to situate this welcome study in the context of broader discussions and debates on RCS, particularly as a contribution to theory and practice at strengthening research capacity at individual, organizational and system levels. The latter of these is the most complex to conceptualise, to implement, and to measure, and is receiving valuable attention from RCS stakeholders such as the Global Development Network (GDN, 2017 2 ) through their Doing Research Program - a growing source of literature for subsequent review. As the authors of the study note, there is a danger in identifying RCS indicators that are seen as having universal application and attractiveness because they are relatively easy to measure. There is an equal, related danger that, due to relative measurability, a majority of RCS interventions become so streamlined in terms of their approach that they begin to follow recipe or blueprint approaches. The study is agnostic on different approaches to RCS. Work undertaken by the Think Tank Initiative (TTI) for example (Weyrauch, 2014 3 ) has demonstrated a range of useful RCS approaches, including flexible financial support, accompanied learning supported by trusted advisors/program officers, action learning, training and others. In a final evaluation of the Think Tank Initiative (Christoplos et al. , 2019 4 ), training was viewed as having had the least value amongst several intervention types in terms of RCS outcomes, whilst flexible financial support and accompanied learning processes were viewed as being significantly more effective. It would be interesting to identify indicators of outcomes or even impacts that might relate to different types of RCS interventions which were not included in the publications reviewed by this study. A key indicator of RCS identified by the TTI evaluation, which interestingly does not appear explicitly in the indicator list of this study, was leadership. As the authors indicate, there are likely to be other valuable indicators not surfaced through this review and this requires more work. This study offers a very important contribution to a field currently being reinvigorated and is highly welcome. Rather than being valued because it may potentially offer a future blueprint list of indicators, (not least since, as the authors observe, the indicator list generated in this study is partial in comparison to a much wider potential range), its value lies particularly in its potential for contribution to further debate and dialogue on the theory and practice of RCS interventions and their evaluation; this dialogue can in turn be further informed by access to a more diverse set of grey literature and by engagement with stakeholders who have experience and interest in strengthening this work. Hopefully the authors of this study, and other researchers, will continue this important line of work and promote ongoing discussion and debate. 