The article describes the results of meta-analysis 90 experiments performed to check is whether the anomalous anticipation of random future events exist. These results were obtained in 33 different laboratories located in 14 countries and involved 12.406 participants. Daryl Bem initially constructed and realized 4 types of experiments: 1. Precognitive Approach and Avoidance; 2. Retroactive Priming; 3. Retroactive Habituation; 4. Retroactive Facilitation of Recall. In each type of experiment, an influence of time-reserved effects was checked. An effect-size in researches included is enough to support the hypothesis about anomalous anticipation of random future events. Online experiments revealed less successful comparing with traditional experiments with experimenter. Authors suppose that lesser effect-size in online-experiments is caused by inability to control all experimental conditions. I believe that it is an adequate explanation of differences in effect in online and laboratory experiments. Authors discussed a possible influence of experimenter’s belief in psi. It agrees with some hypothetical ideas of “quantum consciousness”. Unfortunately, for three time-reserved experiments (1. Precognitive Approach and Avoidance; 2. Retroactive Priming; 3. Retroactive Habituation) such characteristics as valence and arousal for erotic and unpleasant photographs (The International Affective Picture System) were not described. We could estimate obtained results differential characteristics of participants (gender, age, social status). Particularly, in our recent research (Grigoriev, Vasilieva, 2015) we have obtained the results concerning relationship between such characteristics as a gender, age, satisfaction of basic needs and specific of affective visual stimuli anticipation (similar to “Precognitive Approach and Avoidance” type of experiment described in article and also using stimuli from IAPS) in cohorts of students (men and women), law-abiding and convicted of violent crimes men. Authors also discussed the differences in effect-size between and strategies. They suggest that fast/slow variable effects on result of psi. From one side I agree with this experimental fact and conclusion, because , as authors say, prevent conscious cognitive strategies, although still suppose that detailed research is necessary to continue in respect to these variables, because participants’ strategies may be caused not only with the speed of operation with stimuli, but also with content of stimuli. This article may be accepted for indexing because of its proper methodological and methodical level. Enough variables that may affect psi were taken in consideration.