The abstract discussion section is a little unclear and could be misinterpreted as it currently stands. Suggest rewording the sentence 'Since temporal processing is not sufficient in auditory training programs for the elderly with hearing impairments' for clarity. Justification should be offered for each of the inclusion criteria listed. Justification should be offered for the limited age range of eligible participants (60-75 years old). Please state your criteria for pass/fail on the MMSE. The authors should add more detail in terms of how trainees progress through the training difficulty levels on the training program. Given that the training is DVD-based, is an adaptive algorithm based on trainee performance possible? Please describe in detail how transitions between difficulty levels will be achieved and managed. Similarly, will the training log user input and performance in real-time? On the local PC? How/will these data be accessed and used by the research team? Or is on-task training performance not gathered/assessed? If participants are removed from the study, how will this be dealt with (i.e. will they be replaced?) Do the authors intend to conduct per-protocol or intention-to-treat analyses? The data analysis section is limited and would benefit from the consideration of multivariate techniques aligned to this type of research (multiple outcome assessments over time). The authors should state the outcome data on which the power calculation is based, particularly given that the proposed group size is very small in comparison to other computer-based auditory training intervention studies (see e.g. Henshaw Ferguson, 2013 for a review) 1 . Notably, the sample size in Gil (which the authors use as the basis for their calculation) was 'doubled' by including participant data for right and left ears independently (not recommended). I would therefore strongly urge the authors to revisit their power calculation based on pilot data and/or a high quality published study using aligned outcome measures in a similar population. I commend the authors on their open study documentation, source code, and SPIRIT checklist. 