This manuscript reports a number of novel protein interactions of IFITM1 and IFITM3 proteins, as determined using a 'High-confidence Protein-Protein Interaction Prediction (HiPPIP)' computational prediction model of protein-protein interactions. Analysis of functional and pathway associations of the putative interacting proteins is also reported, as they may relate to IFITM-mediated restriction of Zika virus infection. The manuscript is generally well-written and the title is appropriate. However, there are several ways in which the study and manuscript could be improved: The report is largely based upon the predictions generated by the HiPPIP model. As this model is not well-described here and has not been extensively validated experimentally in the literature, it would be helpful if the criteria/rules employed by the model were described (Are predictions based purely on structural features? Does the model take into account protein localization, regulation, tissue distribution, known interactions etc.?). In the Methods section it is simply stated that 'Computationally discovered PPIs have been shown to be highly accurate by computational evaluations and experimental validations of a few PPIs'. This statement is not well-justified and may be misleading. In support of the HiPPIP model, the author refers to the successful prediction of OASL interaction with RIG-I ('Functional studies initiated solely by this predicted PPI showed...'). However in the cited publication (on which Dr. Ganapathiraju is an author) 1 the HiPPIP model (and associated publications) was not referred to. The HiPPIP model should be more clearly described here, including some analysis/discussion of its success rate in predicting protein-protein interactions that have been experimentally validated. As this report focuses on IFITM1 and IFITM3 antiviral functions and predicted interactions, it would be useful if the features and properties of these proteins were at least briefly described (domains, membrane topology, post-translational modifications, sub-cellular localization, tissue distribution and regulation). This would help to interpret the significance of the predicted interactions. In the Results and Discussion some of the roles/properties of the predicted interacting partners are listed. It would be helpful if references were provided for these functions/properties (even if only to reviews). Furthermore, it would be helpful if these properties were discussed in the context of Zika virus and/or IFITM biology (e.g. commonalities in tissue/sub-cellular distribution and/or regulation and features of these proteins [e.g. domains] that may support their predicted interactions). The manuscript should be carefully edited to clarify interactions that are purely predicted and not supported by experimental evidence (e.g. statements like 'TSSC4 interacts with IFITM1 and IFITM3' are misleading). A conclusion/summary paragraph that briefly summarizes the major findings and their significance and potential future directions may be appropriate. References 1. Zhu J, Zhang Y, Ghosh A, Cuevas RA, et al.: Antiviral activity of human OASL protein is mediated by enhancing signaling of the RIG-I RNA sensor. Immunity . 2014; 40 (6): 936-48 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Eyre N. Reviewer Report For: Predicted protein interactions of IFITMs may shed light on mechanisms of Zika virus-induced microcephaly and host invasion [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :1919 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10083.r17909 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1919/v1#referee-response-17909 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Klein-Seetharaman J. Reviewer Report For: Predicted protein interactions of IFITMs may shed light on mechanisms of Zika virus-induced microcephaly and host invasion [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :1919 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10083.r15557 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1919/v1#referee-response-15557 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 08 Aug 2016 Judith Klein-Seetharaman , Division of Metabolic and Vascular Health, University of Warwick, Warwick, UK Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10083.r15557 The title, abstract and article overall are well written and clear. The design, methods and analysis are mostly well described, although some detail could be added. In particular, given that the IFITM interactome contains a large number of previously unknown ... Continue reading READ ALL 