Page 3: Artemisinin-based therapies are described as being among the best treatment options for falciparum malaria. ACTs are the mainstay therapy and are, definitively, the best treatment options. This should be altered. Page 3: The underlying biology of artemisinin partial resistance is becoming clearer – the authors should cite Kelch13-defined endocytosis pathway mediates artemisinin resistance in malaria parasites 1 . Page 3: In terms of predicting the IC50 of DHA on parasites, the authors really need to comment on the importance of time point and whether the parasites are synchronous or asynchronous. Usually growth inhibition assays are 48h-72h with asynchronous parasites and these result in virtually no differences in the IC50s between WT and highly resistant K13 mutant strains – indeed, this is why artemisinin partial resistance took so long to be identified. Table 1 does show the timepoint (which is good) but the synchronicity of the isolate is not mentioned. Also did the group include well characterized control lab-adapted strains (both resistant and WT)? What is the range of IC50s in the data set? Table 1 – Abbreviations need to be described. I know what DHA is, but some readers may not. What is UT? The computational discussion is beyond me, but I was trying to work out exactly what the authors were claiming. Is the conclusion of the first step that the IC50 can be predicted based on the transcriptomic analysis, given full genomic information of an isolate? If so, that could be interesting in predicting phenotype from genotype (in the absence of phenotypic data), but if, on the other hand, it simply confirms resistance will be evident when certain mutations are involved, then that is not so helpful as we know that already. Can the authors very clearly, in layman’s terms, explain what value their model offers to the parasitology community? The same points relate to parasite clearance rate? If the model is simply telling us what we know already then that is significantly less useful or interesting than if it predicts things that we do not yet know. Some very clear explanations of the hypotheses and conclusions are needed for non-computational parasitologists to understand the merit of this work. This is not approvable without such clarity, on the assumption that other reviewers with computational expertise have approved the underlying methods. The identification of PF3D71245300, a NEDD8-conjugating enzyme UBC12 and PF3D71107700 seem to me to be predicted genes for slow and fast clearance are the main conclusions from this work and there should be a stronger statement with respect to the need for follow-up biology to confirm these. I would like to have seen a plot of predicted vs actual IC50 and predicted vs actual clearance rate in a form that is easily interpretable (perhaps it’s there for those in the ‘know’). I was still left unclear as to how good the models were; the authors described them as ‘adequate’ which sounds rather underwhelming. In short – the work may have merit, but it is not communicated in a form that makes it clear what the added value is to use the model and what the actual quality and impact is of the model. 