In this study authors aims to investigate the role of job satisfaction and work related stress in organizational commitment among nurses of a Hospital in Sari, Iran. In particular, authors collected data on organizational commitment, job satisfaction and work related stress by means of validated self-administered questionnaires in 100 nurses from 138 overall workforce, who give consent to participate at the study. Methods used in this study appear appropriate, but lacking in some aspects. Statistical analysis does not need an extensive revision, but needs some specifications. The article don’t need a revision of the English language. Below authors can find some specific observation: Introduction: literature cited about work related stress mainly take into consideration studies about fire fighters and emergency service workers, but few studies about work related stress, job satisfaction and commitment in nurses. Why don’t you considerate literature about work related stress, job satisfaction and commitment in nurses? Please review the literature about this aspect and cite papers focused on hospital nurses. Methods: In the first part of the section “study design” you repeated the aim of the study, already mentioned in the last part of introduction. Please, specify the hypothesis of the present study Study population : exclusion criteria was not mentioned. Please explicit acceptance rate for study participation. Authors reported “all 138 nurses who worked in hospitals”. Do they represent the total workforce? Please explain precisely the recruitment method. The HSE questionnaire should be administered for homogenous groups. Have you recruited nurses from various hospital wards? Please specify. If yes, authors should report which wards were included, how many nurses from each ward and at last verify the homogeneity of response rates. Complexly, it is not clear how you arrived at the sample of 100 nurses from the sample of 139 at initial phase. Authors should specify all passages of recruitment strategy, without any omission. Please report the characteristics of excluded nurses. Questionnaires: please report Crombach’s alpha for each subscale of organizational commitment, job satisfaction and work related stress. Job satisfaction: “reliability also was high” How did you measure reliability? Why don’t you report Crombach’s alpha? Work related stress: You stated that “low scores indicate higher health and safety in aspect of stress and higher scores means high stress” but this is not always true. In fact, following HSE method, job control and job support are positive factors and higher scores for this aspects generally represent a better situation. Did you overturn questions (revers items) about job control and job support to bypass this problem? If no, you cannot consider a total higher score of work stress as negative. Authors should better explain how you evaluated work stress. The Crombach’s alpha for work related stress has to be considered separately for each subscale. Results: table 1. Add information about nurses’ gender and ward provenience. Are they all female? They performed shift work and if yes, what shift work modality was performed? The mean scores of job commitment, work stress and job satisfaction are not indicative. Authors should report results for each subscale. Table 3. Authors should report the dependent variable and indicate other covariates in the model (age, work duration, marital status ecc). Have you considered those variables in the regression model? Discussion: discussion is too short and maybe it would be better to in depth discuss the results. Authors should do some comparisons between results of the present paper and those obtained in other similar study, also giving an interpretation. The lack of comparisons limits the global extensions of those findings to other work settings. Authors should also give an interpretation of results. Authors should discuss limitations of the study (e.g. small sample, possible sources of bias and the lack of some information about home stress that could influence results of the present study). Authors should also explicit what this paper adds to knowledge of this argument and the possible contribution to the scientific community. 