This study is a timely and important effort to expand on the evidence base for successful PPFP integration with maternal and newborn health services. The attempt to evaluate programmatic experiences in a systematic way is commendable. The researchers have a good knowledge of existing evidence and gaps and display this clearly in the introduction and discussion. The methods section begins with an appropriate context setting section, describing integration programmes in the study sites. As done here, it is often useful for triangulation purposes to combine qualitative and quantitative methods. The client flow method used appears to be robust and cost-effective. The semi-structured interviews also appear to be sound in design and quality. As pointed out by the authors themselves in the discussion, observation of care would have provided important insights. However, I have doubts concerning the quality of the data generated from the provider and client surveys. The numbers are fairly small, and there is a notable risk of courtesy bias. In this regard, I am particularly curious about the extent to which providers, especially, were aware that the researchers were assessing family planning integration, and whether they felt they could be completely honest about the extent to which they did or did not provide PPFP services. It would be useful for the authors to comment on these issues in the discussion. The area I am most uncertain about is the ability of the data on privacy, waiting time and interactions with staff to support the kind of analysis presented. The numbers appear to be very small, so I am not sure that they support quantitative comparisons between facilities. Qualitative interviews with clients might have been a better way to explore their experience of care. In addition, it is difficult to express a full opinion about the soundness of all the analysis done because of a somewhat confusing presentation of methods and results. I had to read the methods section several times in order to understand what was done, with what purpose, and in what order. Sentences describing the purpose of each phase, and step, should precede those describing which type of data was considered in turn. The development of an integration score for facilities is an essential part of the analysis, but different (more or less collated or aggregated by service area) classifications of integration levels are described in the methods, presented in Table 2, and referred to in the results section. I also could not find a clear explanation about why, out of 15 facilities in the sample, integration scores are only presented for 13. While containing interesting findings, the results section could be reorganised to be more clear, perhaps with more correspondence with the analysis phases as described in the methods, e.g. into three subject areas rather than two, the third being client experience. As it is, the second section of the results (Factors influencing success) appears quite long and difficult to navigate. However, I am not certain that the parts on client experience should be retained, given the reservations about data quality that I expressed above. Although, it could benefit from some streamlining and re-organisation, the Discussion reflects the strengths and weaknesses of the study and discusses the findings in the light of relevant contextual factors which aid the interpretation. The piece could be improved by giving more prominence to the paragraphs discussing what the implications for policymakers and future researchers are. 