This data note describes the fungal microbiome of 39 (commercial and homebrewed) beers as determined by next generation sequencing of ITS amplicons. The project was crowdfunded and many of the individual funders were also involved in providing beer samples and assistance during DNA extraction. While the results will be of interest, particularly for the brewing industry, I have some concerns with the analysis methods and the results presented in this first version of the manuscript. Major comments: To determine the microbiome of the beers, the authors align the raw sequencing reads to a concatenated dataset containing fungal ITS sequences. To my understanding, no quality control or filtering was performed prior to and after the alignment. This will cause a large number of false positives, as many of the intragenic ITS sequences are very similar. To demonstrate, I repeated the analysis on six samples I retrieved from the NCBI SRA: SRR5740352: Chimay Red Cap SRR5740353: Chimay Tripel SRR5740362: Waldbier 2014 Wienerwald SRR5740364: La Nebuleuse Chicha SRR5740374: Orval SRR5740375: Trois Dames According to the results presented in the manuscript, each of the samples contained traces of at least 11 different species (see Figure 1 and Figure 3). What I did to the sequencing reads was 1. Trim them using 'cutadapt' as follows (any similar tool would do the same job) Remove 20 first bases of each read Remove bases from end of read when quality score is less than 15 Remove any reads shorter than 200 base pairs Approximately 80% of the bases were retained from each set of reads after these steps 2. After this the reads were aligned to the concatenated ITS sequence dataset using bwa mem with default settings as the authors had done. Reads mapping to the different sequences were then counted with the script used by the authors (obtainable from github). The results with no post alignment filtering: https://www.dropbox.com/s/llg94fgk23ag264/Beer_results_nofilter.txt 3. After this I removed all reads that did not map to a unique location (i.e. could be mapped to the ITS sequences of several species) and reads where the two paired reads mapped to different sequences. This was done by removing all alignments with a MAPQ score below 4 and 'awk': https://www.dropbox.com/s/0iimh5fbb40qeh0/Beer_results_mapq4.txt As can be seen, the diversity is reduced considerably, and if all hits where the read count is less than 10 are also removed (as the authors had done), most samples now contain only S. cerevisiae and/or B. bruxellensis . 4. The amount of false positives can be further reduced by filtering by a higher MAPQ score (e.g. 30): https://www.dropbox.com/s/3x4gyylsiykyu7o/Beer_results_mapq30.txt I therefore suggest that the authors redo the analysis with proper filtering to remove poor quality alignments and false positives in the results. The results and conclusions will subsequently have to be rewritten accordingly. Minor comments: In the Methods section, under Beer sample preparation: I assume the DNA was extracted from the frozen yeast pellet? Any reason why it was not attempted to extract DNA from the beer itself, e.g. using the method described in reference (23)? This would allow analysis of filtered beers as well. Is Figure 2 necessary, since Figure 3 shows the clustering as well? Also, why does the clustering in Figures 2 and 3 differ? Were these generated using different clustering methodologies? It is mentioned that some of the beers contained speciality ingredients, such as pine cones. Do the authors know at what point in the production process these were added (i.e. pre- or post-boil)? This would have a large impact on how these ingredients affect the beer microbiome. 