The paper proposes to study cosmology from a critical reading, presenting and discussing four models that are didactically presented throughout the text. The author makes an insufficient historical review, especially for the works that demonstrated that the temperature of radiation (or space) before the consolidation of the BB model occurred many years before 1960s until the "discovery" of Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson. A more precise historical path would be necessary utterly to consolidate the author's criticism of the current BB paradigm. Although the author cites Assis Neves (1995), it is necessary to point out that cosmologies not only of steady state as they were known, but cosmologies considering an universe infinite in space and in time that predicted values o temperatures of interstellar or intergalactic space with temperatures closer to that discovered by Penzias Wilson that Gamow (greater than 50 K) or Dicke et al (greater than 30 K). The names of the scientists linked to best previsions of the CMB or the temperature of space with no BB framework are Guillaume (Nobel Prize) at the end of 19th century, Eddington (the man responsible to Einstein win the Nobel Prize), Regener, Nernst (nobel Prize), Finlay-Freundlich, De Broglie (Nobel Prize), Max Born (Nobel Prize). In the documentary UNIVERSE, THE COSMOLOGY QUEST (directed by Randall Meyers, 2004), we can see these previsions based upon the Works of Assis Neves (1993, 1999) and Peratt (1995). This documentary is very important because give the opportunity by discordant voices of great scientists like: Geoffrey and Margaret Burbidge, Fred Hoyle, Halton Arp, Andre Assis, Jayant Narlikar, Jean-Claude Pecker and others. In this year we lost Margaret Burbidge, and seven years ago, Halton Arp. The dissappearances of these great scientists implies an impoverishment of the great debates about cosmology. Unfortunately, nowadays we are in an historical well-known sequence of the old greek astronomy: reinventing new epicycles by the same deferent circle (“ad hoc science”): Invention of dark matter and dark energy to “explain” the acceleration of inflation; The re-reading of the results gave by COBE’s observation; The interpretation of the famous Hubble’s photo of the ultra deep field in Fornax constelation: all amateur astronomer knows that a photo of the night sky it is necessary a long exposure technique. It is the same by the Hubble. Old galaxies are less energetic (faint bright); contrary, Young galaxies are highly energetic. The interpretation of the "fact" given by the ultra deep field could represent the limitations of our telescopic technology. If we had a double or a triple time of the exposure, certainly, the photography will reveal old galaxies between young galaxies. But this assumption never is discussed in the scientific society because the BB paradigm is strongly consolidated. We can quote here Imre Lakatos: “The story is about an imaginary case of planetary misbehaviour. A physicist of the pre-Einsteinian era takes Newton's mechanics and his law of gravitation, (N), the accepted initial conditions, I, and calculates, with their help, the path of a newly discovered small planet, p. But the planet deviates from the calculated path. Does our Newtonian physicist consider that the deviation was forbidden by Newton's theory and therefore that, once established, it refutes the theory N? No. He suggests that there must be a hitherto unknown planet p' which perturbs the path of p. He calculates the mass orbit, etc., of this hypothetical planet and then asks an experimental astronomer to test his hypothesis. The planet p' is so small that even the biggest available telescopes cannot possibly observe it: the experimental astronomer applies for a research grant to build yet a bigger one.' In three years' time the new telescope is ready. Were the unknown planet p' to be discovered, it would be hailed as a new victory of Newtonian science. But it is not. Does our scientist abandon Newton's theory and his idea of the perturbing planet? No. He suggests that a cloud of cosmic dust hides the planet from us. He calculates the location and properties of this cloud and asks for a research grant to send up a satellite to test his calculations. Were the satellite's instruments (possibly new ones, based on a little-tested theory) to record the existence of the conjectural cloud, the result would be hailed as an outstanding victory for Newtonian science. But the cloud is not found. Does our scientist abandon Newton's theory, together with the idea of the perturbing planet and the idea of the cloud which hides it? No. He suggests that there is some magnetic field in that region of the universe which disturbed the instruments of the satellite. A new satellite is sent up. Were the magnetic field to be found, Newtonians would celebrate a sensational victory. But it is not. Is this regarded as a refutation of Newtonian science? No. Either yet another ingenious auxiliary hypothesis is proposed or. . .the whole story is buried in the dusty volumes of periodicals and the story never mentioned again.” (LAKATOS, I. The methodology of scientific research Programmes Philosophical Papers. NY: Cambridge University Press, 1989; p.16-17 1 ) Lakatos follows: "This story strongly suggests that even a most respected scientific theory, like Newton's dynamics and theory of gravitation, may fail to forbid any observable state of affair. Indeed, some scientific theories forbid an event occurring in some specified finite spatio-temporal region (or briefly, a 'singular event ') only on the condition that no other factor (possibly hidden in some distant and unspecified spatio-temporal corner of the universe) has any influence on it. But then such theories never alone contradict a 'basic' statement: they contradict at most a conjunction of a basic statement describing a spatio-temporally singular event and of a universal non-existence statement saying that no other relevant cause is at work anywhere in the universe. And the dogmatic falsificationist cannot possibly claim that such universal non-existence statements belong to the empirical basis: that they can be observed and proved by experience. Another way of putting this is to say that some scientific theories are normally interpreted as containing a ceteris paribus clause:' in such cases it is always a specific theory together with this clause which may be refuted. But such a refutation is inconsequential for the specific theory under test because by replacing the ceteris paribus clause by a different one the specific theory can always be retained whatever the tests say. If so, the 'inexorable' disproof procedure of dogmatic falsificationism breaks down in these cases even if there were a firmly established empirical basis to serve as a launching pad for the arrow of the modus tollens: the prime target remains hopelessly elusive. And as it happens, it is exactly the most important, 'mature' theories in the history of science which are prima facie undisprovable in this way. Moreover, by the standards of dogmatic falsificationism all probabilistic theories also come under this head: for no finite sample can ever disprove a universal probabilistic theory; probabilistic theories, like theories with a ceteris paribus clause, have no empirical basis. But then the dogmatic falsificationist relegates the most important scientific theories on his own admission to metaphysics where rational discussion - consisting, by his standards, of proofs and disproofs - has no place, since a metaphysical theory is neither provable nor disprovable. The demarcation criterion of dogmatic falsificationism is thus still strongly antitheoretical." all the “re-writing” of the the theories of conservation (matter, energy, mainly); all the predictions of the temperature of the space could be inherent to inflationary or not inflationary conception of the universe all the predictions of the temperature of the space could be inherent to inflationary or not inflationary conception of the universe The author of the paper under analysis: “Does standard cosmology really predict the cosmic microwave background?”, as I pointed previously, presented 4 models of the “comprehension” of the Universe based upon the BB’s paradigm. I understood the aim of the author confrontates four scenarios to arrive a not accuracy of the results to validade the BB’s paradigm. Remembering Feyerabend: "Einstein's first cosmological paper is a purely theoretical exercise containing not a single astronomical constant. The subject of cosmology itself for a long time found few supporters among physicists. Hubble the observer was respected, the rest had a hard time: Journals accepted papers from observers, giving them only the most cursory refereeing whereas our own papers always had a stiff passage, to a point where one became quite worn out with explaining points of mathematics, physics, fact and logic to the obtuse minds who constitute the mysterious anonymous class of referees, doing their work, like owls, in the darkness of the night. Is it not really strange', asks Einstein, 'that human beings are normally deaf to the strongest argument while they are always inclined to overestimate measuring accuracies?' - but just such an 'overestimating of measuring accuracies' is the rule in epidemiology, demography, genetics, spectroscopy and in other subjects." (FEYERABEND, P.K. Against Method. NY: Verso, 1993, p.239 2 ) and, Finally, the manner in which we accept or reject scientific ideas is radically different from democratic decision procedures. We accept scientific laws and scientific facts, we teach them in our schools, we make them the basis of important political decisions, but without ever having subjected them to a vote. Scientists do not subject them to a vote - or at least this is what they say - and laymen certainly do not subject them to a vote. Concrete proposals are occasionally discussed, and a vote is suggested. But the procedure is not extended to general theories and scientific facts. Modern society is 'Copernican' not because Copernicanism has been put on a ballot, subjected to a democratic debate and then voted in with a simple majority; it is 'Copernican' because the scientists are Copernicans and because one accepts their cosmology as uncritically as one once accepted the cosmology of bishops and cardinals. (FEYERABEND, P.K. Against Method. NY: Verso, 1993 2 ) To illustrate this report to support the criticism on the BB paradigm it is necessary to present the predictions of the temperature of space since Guillaume(table 1 - page 17, figure 2 - page 8 3 . It was published in 2004 a kind of “open letter”, by a team of dissents scientists, entitled “Bucking the Big Bang” in NEW SCIENTIST, presenting the great troubles present in the BB paradigm in the sense to support researches in concurrent theories of non-inflationary concept of Universe: "The big bang today relies on a growing number of hypothetical entities, things that we have never observed-- inflation, dark matter and dark energy are the most prominent examples. Without them, there would be a fatal contradiction between the observations made by astronomers and the predictions of the big bang theory. In no other field of physics would this continual recourse to new hypothetical objects be accepted as a way of bridging the gap between theory and observation. It would, at the least, raise serious questions about the validity of the underlying theory. But the big bang theory can't survive without these fudge factors. Without the hypothetical inflation field, the big bang does not predict the smooth, isotropic cosmic background radiation that is observed, because there would be no way for parts of the universe that are now more than a few degrees away in the sky to come to the same temperature and thus emit the same amount of microwave radiation. Without some kind of dark matter, unlike any that we have observed on Earth despite 20 years of experiments, big-bang theory makes contradictory predictions for the density of matter in the universe. Inflation requires a density 20 times larger than that implied by big bang nucleosynthesis, the theory's explanation of the origin of the light elements. And without dark energy, the theory predicts that the universe is only about 8 billion years old, which is billions of years younger than the age of many stars in our galaxy. What is more, the big bang theory can boast of no quantitative predictions that have subsequently been validated by observation. The successes claimed by the theory's supporters consist of its ability to retrospectively fit observations with a steadily increasing array of adjustable parameters, just as the old Earth-centred cosmology of Ptolemy needed layer upon layer of epicycles." (Eric Lerner, Bucking the Big Bang. New Scientist, 22 May, 2004, in: https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg18224482-900-bucking-the-big-bang/) 4 The epicycle is a metaphor regards to the ancient greek practical in astronomic model to “save the phenomenon”, what means that where the prediction of the planet fail, another epicycle is necessary upon to be placed on the first epicycle to adjust the measurement (see image ). Jayant Narlikar, the great indian astrophysicist, says in the documentary UNIVERSE, THE COSMOLOGY QUEST says: “however what it happens along the years is that always when the observations are not agree of the BB previsions, the theory creates a new assumption that is not all of tested or based in a conventional physics and simply assumes that must be true”. This is the same that was expressed by Imre Lakatos in his story about an hypothetical perturbing planetIn nowadays, the enigmatic nature of CMB or the ad hoc assumption of dark matter or dark energy can explained the nature of Cosmology as a big speculative science and, by principle, open to several hypothesis, theories and models, but …, unfortunately this is not the case. Remembering an important theme in a science history investigation: "The earliest estimation of a temperature of “space” known to us is that of Guillaume (1896). It was published in 1896, prior to Gamow’s birth (1904). Here we quote from this paper (English translation by C. Roy Keys): “Captain Abney has recently determined the ratio of the light from the starry sky to that of the full Moon. It turns out to be 1/44, after reductions for the obliqueness of the rays relative to the surface, and for atmospheric absorption. Doubling this for both hemispheres, and adopting 1/600000 as the ratio of the light intensity of the Moon to that of the Sun (a rough average of the measurements by Wollaston, Douguer and Zllner), we find that the Sun showers us with 15,200,000 time more vibratory energy than all the stars combined. The increase in temperature of an isolated body in space subject only to the action of the stars Page 80 APEIRON Vol. 2 Nr. 3 July 1995 will be equal to the quotient of the increase of temperature due to the Sun on the Earth’s orbit divided by the fourth root of 15,200,000, or about 60. Moreover, this number should be regarded as a minimum, as the measurements of Captain Abney taken in South Kensington may have been distorted by some foreign source of light. We conclude that the radiation of the stars alone would maintain the test particle we suppose might have been placed at different points in the sky at a temperature of 338/60 = 5.6 abs. = 207.4 centigrade. We must not conclude that the radiation of the stars raises the temperature of the celestial bodies to 5 or 6 degrees. If the star in question already has a temperature that is very different from absolute zero, its loss of heat is much greater. We will find the increase of temperature due to the radiation of the stars by calculating the loss using Stefan’s law. In this way we find that for the Earth, the temperature increase due to the radiation of the stars is less than one hundred thousandth of a degree. Furthermore, this figure should be regarded as an upper limit on the effect we seek to evaluate.” Of course, Guillaume’s estimation of a 5-6 K blackbody temperature may not have been the earliest one, as Stefan’s law had been known since 1879. Moreover, it is restricted to the effect due to the stars belonging to our own galaxy" in: History of the 2.7 K Temperature Prior to Penzias and Wilson by Assis Neves, Apeiron Vol. 2 Nr. 3 July 1995 Page 79-84] 5 . Geoffrey Burbidge, wrote also: "We had a good discussion of various issues relating to cosmology and there has been a clear division of perceptions of what is considered important evidence. On the one side, the conventional one, we have heard the very detailed evidence of CMBR and high redshift supernovae, evidence that is popularized in the phrase “concordance cosmology.” The Universe according to this view went through an inﬂationary phase, had an era of nucleosynthesis and then had the surface of last scattering when the radiation background became decoupled from matter. The package comes with a large part of the matter energy (around 75%) being dark and hitherto unknown, a substantial part of strange kind of matter (21%) and only around 4% of ordinary matter that we are familiar with. Once you believe all of these ideas, you feel convinced that the cosmological problem is all but solved. On the other side, some of us have been increasingly worried at what appears to be anomalous evidence, evidence that does not ﬁt into the standard picture just mentioned. Even the very basic Hubble law applied to QSO redshifts seems to be threatened if one takes the evidence on anomalous redshifts seriously. In the 1970s when Chip Arp ﬁrst started ﬁnding such examples, he was told that these were exceptions and that he should ﬁnd more. He has been doing just that and his cases now include not just optical sources but also radio and X-ray sources. Then there is the evidence of periodicities of redshifts that has not gone away with larger samples. As I discussed, even the gamma ray burst sources appear to show the effect. While there are many things that we do not understand we believe that this cosmogonical evidence ﬁts well into the cyclic universe scheme. The contrast between the two perceptions gets further highlighted when one notices the large number of speculative concepts that have gone into the standard paradigm: The nonbaryonic dark matter, dark energy, phase transitions at energy well beyond the range tested in the laboratory, etc. These relate to parts of the Universe that will remain forever unobservable and whose physics will remain forever untested in the laboratory. However, without making these assumptions the theory fails. The fact is that we do not know how galaxies form, and for them to form in a big-bang Universe it is necessary to invoke initial density ﬂuctuations and a large amount of nonbaryonic matter to make them condense. On the other hand, the anomalous evidence ignored by the conventional cosmologists is real, right on our doorstep, and well observable. Surely we need to probe it further and in a way that will enable us to understand if any new physics is needed here. It is unfortunate that the majority of the cosmology community chooses to ignore all of this evidence in the hope that it will go away."[Burbidge, G. Panel Discussion. In: Pecker, J-C; Narlikar, J. CURRENT ISSUES IN COSMOLOGY. Cambridge University Press, 2006, p. 237-238] 6 The conclusion of the paper under analysis could be enriched by the Edwin Hubble’s arguments when he detected galaxies in recessive motion at a “incredible” speed at 0,14 c . If Hubble had observed quasars in the 1920s he would never have come to his law: v = H . d(Graph in DVD 2 7 . Hubble (apud Assis Neves, 1995 5 ) wrote at the end years of his life: "Light may lose energy during its journey through space, but if so, we do not yet know how the energy loss can be explained. The disturbing features are all introduced by the recession factor, by the assumption that red-shifts are velocity-shifts. The departure from linear law of redshifts, the departure from uniform distribution, the curvature necessary to restore homogeneity, the excess material demanded by the curvature; each of these is merely the recession factor in another form. These elements identify a unique model among the array of possible expanding worlds, and, in this model, the restriction in time-scale, the limitation of spatial dimensions, the amount of unobserved material, is each equivalent to the recession factor. On the other hand, if the recession factor is dropped, if redshifts are not primarily velocity-shifts, the picture is simple and plausible. There is no evidence of expansion and no restriction of the time-scale, no trace of spatial curvature and no limitations of spatial dimensions. We seem to face, as once before in the days of Copernicus, a choice between a small, finite universe, and a universe indefinitely large plus a new principle of nature." To conclude, the author of the present paper used correctly Lakatos to emphasize the serious limitation of the BB’s paradigm. Jean-Claude Pecker, the famous astrophysicist at the Collge de France, in a speech in the documentary UNIVERSE, THE COSMOLOGY QUEST afirmed: "In August 1952 we have a Meeting of the International Astronomic Union in Rome and we were received the Pope Pio XII. And Pio XII made an address to the astronomers and this address was very clear, and he said: “oh, the BB is the Fiat lux! This is beautiful that Astronomy proves this and this , etc, etc…” I always an herectic of this all things. I didn’t believe in any God and when I see “Fiat lux” and the BB associated each other I was suspicious since the beginning and I forgot the BB. Those distant things about which physics was very vague were difficult to observe … but let’s face: in all the history of Astronomy from years and years, centuries and centuries, the progress came from observations and confrontations of these new observations and in the past theories sometimes contradictions, sometimes confirmations. Frequently these contradictions lead us to a progress and change in the theories. But this is not occurring [today]. So, actually, the 3K radiation for me don’t have any cosmological value. It is observed and occur in any cosmology we can predict the radiation of 3K. So, it is not the prove of any specific cosmology. We have to match what is observed. We have an observable universe that is made of stars and galaxies that are very far away and that is all. Radiation of 3K can be thought as of local origin ... beyond that, I think, it is a wild extrapolation and whatever it is, and the physics that we could imagine as being there is based on nothing because we have no tests available to verify over there." The author of the paper Does standard cosmology really predict the cosmic microwave background? wrote a difficult text by its intrinsic epistemological nature. All the quotations and discussion that I made above were to clarify the needs to put contemporary cosmology in a great and crucial debate between scientists with different worldviews, theories and models as well as to an inflationary or to a non-inflationary universe (infinite in space and in the time). Last, but not least, and rewriting Feyerabend, in Against the Method: our science is ‘BigBangnian’ because the scientists are ‘BigBagnian’ and because one accepts their cosmology as uncritically as one once accepted the cosmology of bishops and cardinals. 