I have read this article and I support indexation. Given my past experience in kinase drug discovery I believe I have an appropriate level of expertise to comment on the article. The article is scientifically sound and is written with sufficient detail and clarity to allow others to reproduce the work. The introduction section lays out a strong rationale for the efforts of this group to discover more selective RET inhibitors, indicating both the new emerging Oncology disease sector opportunities and the limited kinase selectivity of inhibitors currently in clinical use. The results and discussion section clearly describes the screening cascade used to discover more selective RET inhibitors. The correlations illustrated between the different assays helps build confidence in the screening cascade. In addition, the screening cascade features different mutant forms (miss-sense, gene fusions) of RET in addition to WT, thereby indicating that compounds the authors discover from this cascade have potential application across a spectrum of tumours where RET is an oncogenic driver. The data derived from testing of clinical agents in their cascade reinforces both the rationale behind the work and helps validate the cascade. The direction the cascade provides for producing more selective RET inhibitors is largely focused around minimizing activity against the KDR receptor tyrosine kinase. This makes sense given the chemical start point for this work was vandetanib, a proven KDR inhibitor. However, as chemical series evolve during a drug discovery project, there is the risk of introducing additional secondary pharmacology (inhibition of additional kinases beyond RET and KDR). The author’s use of a ‘Toxicity Margin’ calculation based around cell proliferation sensitivity of RET-null HEK293 cells provides a rapid and simple measure to track introduction of additional new pharmacology, although testing of frontrunner compounds in one of the widely available kinase panel screens may have been considered to fully appreciate the kinase selectivity of the project compounds. Minor comments / corrections: EGFR is an abbreviation for Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, not endothelial growth factor as stated. VEGF treatment, not VEGFR treatment as stated The text relating to Figure 1B could more clearly indicate this data came from pre- incubation and wash out experiments. Figure 2C may benefit from more clearly labeling them as enzyme assays, i.e. RET enzyme (M918T) vs RET enzyme (WT). Other pertinent comments proposing clarification of statistical measurements used in the figures, and in wording in paragraph 3 of the Introduction, have already been noted by other reviewer, Anderson J Ryan. 