In this paper Dr Aizawa reports the outcome of attempts to reproduce the claim that exposure to low pH can convert splenocytes into pluripotent cells, so-called STAP cells, that are capable of colonising the mouse embryo. Although the two STAP papers have now been retracted acknowledging multiple errors and misconduct, the retraction notice does not state that the results are irreproducible but only says “we are unable to say without doubt whether the STAP-SC phenomenon is real”. This study is therefore a valuable service to the community. It is unfortunate that Ms Obokata cannot be contacted. It would be desirable if she confirmed her agreement with the findings. However, I do not think there is any requirement for her to be a co-author because she carried out the work under the explicit direction and supervision of Dr Aizawa. The study design, results and interpretation are clearly presented. Putative STAP cell aggregates, as defined by Ms Obokata on the basis of fluorescence and/or morphology, were obtained. In a comprehensive series of micro-injections these cells were introduced into morulae or early blastocysts then transferred to recipient mice. No contribution was detected in 591 recovered embryos inspected for expression of a constitutive GFP reporter. Therefore the findings reported in the STAP papers cannot be reproduced using “STAP” cells generated by Ms Obokata in supervised conditions. This is a helpful clarification for the field. I have a few minor suggestions and questions that could improve the clarity of the manuscript: In Table 1 the heading Exp No should be changed to No. of Expts and the heading No. Cell Aggregates should be No. Fluorescent Cell Aggregates. It is not clear from the Table or text what proportion of aggregates showed fluorescence or whether they all did. This should be stated. It is stated that the source of fluorescence could not be confirmed. Were no aggregates generated from wildtype splenocytes without a reporter? How intense is the green fluorescence in aggregates compared with the Oct4-GFP level in embryos or ES cells? The text should explain that red fluorescence is autofluorescence. For the chimaera experiments it is stated that “cell aggregates of 50-100mM were selected by their cluster morphology by Obokata”. Can “cluster morphology” be described more precisely? Typographical error: “cell aggregates were one cut into small pieces”. Were any injected embryos examined for donor cell survival/integration prior to uterine transfer? Could the author comment on the limit of detection (number of cells) for chimaera contribution at the stages examined using this reporter? The method “Embryos were ….. examined for the contribution of injected cells in each organ”. I assume this was in whole mount rather than dissected organs, but this should be declared. 