In this manuscript the authors motivate and describe the creation of a corpus of miRNA mentions. As noted by the authors, miRNA has important biological functions and is not yet well studied from a text mining standpoint. The corpus described represents a substantial undertaking. The authors demonstrate that the corpus is sufficient to create a named entity recognizer with good performance, and also that a relation extraction technique based on the method finds relations not present in existing databases. Overall, the authors have been quite transparent and thorough in documenting their approach. Two of the largest concerns with any annotation effort are whether the corpus is representative and whether it is consistent. The authors describe their method of corpus selection, which is straightforward and reasonable. The authors have used best practices for annotation - their guidelines are provided, the corpus is annotated by two annotators, and the inter-annotator agreement is high. This shows in their use of the corpus to train an NER system. It would be good to mention how annotator disagreements were harmonized and whether any effort was made to make the annotation consistent across the corpus. For example, the word "chronic" is included in the annotation "chronic inflammation" but not included in "chronic neurological disorder" - there is probably a good reason for this, but the process of ensuring this sort of consistency is not mentioned. Some of the wording in the manuscript seems to communicate a different annotation result than what is seen in the corpus. For example, page 4 asserts "Possessive terms such as Diabetic patients are not marked." It seems likely that not annotating disease mentions used as a modifier would cause a consistency issue that will be a problem for training an NER system, but the corpus itself seems to have these terms annotated and I was unable to manually locate a phrase where the annotation was not provided. For example, document 21295623 mentions "Parkinsons disease subjects," and "Parkinsons disease" is annotated as a disease. Document 19703993 contains another example with "human meningioma samples." Is the rule that adjective forms of diseases (diabetic, hypertensive, malarial) are not annotated but nouns (diabetes, hypertension, malaria) are? In other words "diabetic patient" is indeed not annotated (the corpus does not contain the word "diabetic") but the phrase "diabetes patient" would contain a disease annotation? I would like to reiterate that the actual annotations in the corpus look good, the only problem is this statement about possessive terms. It should be noted that not annotating species names which are not present in a database could also lead to inconsistency. Since the species distribution is so skewed, however, this does not appear to be a concern to me. How was sentence breaking performed? Some documents (e.g. 19703993) seem to lack sentence breaks where they would be expected. Please provide a citation for the assertion that miRNA is associated with AD pathophysiology (Page 8). Minor comments: P.5: "201 are randomly selected as test corpus" -- "201 were randomly selected as the test corpus" P.5: "Two annotators have been involved in the annotation." -- "Two annotators performed the annotation." P.6: "Not all combination of the root forms is logical" -- "Not all combinations of the root forms are logical" P.7: "However, partial matches result for the same" -- "However, the partial matches result for the same" or "However, the partial matches result for diseases" P.8: Using "evidences" as in "The miR2Disease database returns 28 evidences" seems odd, would "evidential statement" or "assertion" or something similar be acceptable? P.9: "miR2IDsease are in relation with Alzheimers disease" -- "miR2IDsease refer to Alzheimers disease" P.9: "The proposed methods encourage future work of implementing the same for full-text articles" -- "The proposed methods encourage the extension of this work to full-text articles" P.9: "Non-specific miRNA mentions identification" -- "Non-specific miRNA mention identification" As noted by the authors, the naming convention for miRNA was standardized soon after their discovery, and thus the performance of the NER methods is higher than for many other entity types (notably genes and proteins). It might be interesting to note that the performance was not perfect even with a well supported naming convention; this suggests that naming conventions are probably not sufficient for mining: NLP methods would remain important even with well supported naming conventions.