 Title : I don’t find the term “monitoring” appropriate as it is presented a cross-sectional study with only one MPV determination and I so think that the use of assessment or determination could be tried. Also the term MPV (as possible marker of SLE disease activity) should be included in title. Abstract : First two phrases of the abstract are too general, not directly related to this article subject. I think that for the background the idea MPV – activity – Inflammation – SLE is enough. In the method we understand that 25 patients with active vs. 25 inactive were chosen ... it should be clear noted; e.g. cross-sectional, prospective, successively inclusion and then how the two subgroups were defined. I don’t think that the details of statistic should appear in the abstract - methods, maybe a more detailed conclusion. Introduction : As for the abstract, I find the first two paragraphs are too general, not directly related to the article topic. For the classification criteria, instead of classification criteria up-dated ACR 1997 (that should be cited properly) I would propose the use of SLICC 2012 or both criteria sets; but anyway, the diagnosis would be the same as the last criteria set is more sensitive. Methods/ Results : There are many exclusion criteria presented, maybe there could be some words in introduction or discussion about these factors influence on MPV (as it was discussed for thrombocytopenia) and reasons of exclusion. I understand from methods that it was a cross-sectional study with random, consecutive inclusion and then the lot was split in two groups according to SLE disease activity (assessed by SLEDAI). How was the SLEDAI cut-off of 5 points determined? This cut-off appears in previous published research, it is the mean value (as I understand all variables turned out to be parametric), or the group was split in two groups of similar patients number? And then, the bivariate correlations were realized only in the group with active SLE, so the results are applicable only in this subgroup of patients. I would propose a logistic regression for the entire lot (50 patients), with MPV, ESR (and adjusted for age and gender) as predictors for high SLEDAI. However, the degree of correlation obtained is very high and so it sustains the research conclusion. Discussion : the phrase “SLEDAI was as effective as both ESR and MPV” should be written differently (MPV was correlated with/ is an effective marker of ...) as the research is about MPV, disease activity was assessed by SLEDAI and ESR was noted as parameter known to correlates with disease activity. In the third paragraph, I don’t find a relation between the discussion on CRP and the same paragraph last phrase. Of course, data on ESR usefulness as marker of SLE disease activity should be discussed in order to understand why SLEDAI and ESR as standard. And maybe also data on ESR and MPV in lupus or other diseases, if there are. Conclusion : I think that the first phrase of conclusion should be reformulated. The term “monitor” I already discussed; “higher disease will reduce MPV” could be more specific; and “vice versa” I’m not sure that this can be concluded as the study does not discuss distinctly the relation between higher MPV with lower activity in the subgroup of inactive lupus patients (of course, it looks logical). I think also that the present last phrase of conclusion should be ended “ sensitivity and specificity for ...” and in active SLE, without APS ... 