The manuscript summarizes two achievements from NCBI’s hackathon of 2015. First is a tutorial to introduce RNAseq mapping. Second is bamDiff, a program for comparing different RNA-seq aligner mapping. This reviewer believes the current state of the tutorial is on the thin side and could benefit from additional expansion. The functionality of bamDiff program is intriguing but based on the current state of the program the reviewer feels the program should be expanded to incorporate other QC metrics. Overall, this work makes great stride for guiding biologist to their first hands-on-experience on NGS. Major points: The tutorial provides a step by step tutorial from downloading to mapping and some mapping evaluation. The tutorial can be useful to users that find difficulty working on a Unix environment. In the current form, the author introduces basic commands for performing mapping; however, the author should caution and educate the reader that additional vetting of the raw RNAseq mapping is necessary. While mapping evaluation is important, that is just one of the many QC metric necessary in RNAseq data that contribute to the decision making. Here is an incomplete list of RNAseq related issues that should be included in the tutorial: Whether the RNAseq sample require trimming of low quality or adaptor sequences. The different parameter tuning that increases the coverage of these hard to map region (i.e. STAR 2-pass). At what sequencing depth is the RNAseq sample is deep enough for expression analysis, gene fusion detection, splicing detection, and whether additional sequencing is necessary. (The reviewer recognize that the above comments might not be suitable within the tutorial, but the author should make some attempt to inform the user of these caveats.) Regarding the bam comparison program, the author might want to automatically include output of coverage Bed files that can be displayed in UCSC genome browser or IGV. In the tutorial, the author included some examples of coverage differences; however, the discussions from the tutorial appear to be incomplete. The author failed to discuss the reason that contributes to these differences in coverage such as the parameters or algorithm design. Another discussion point should be to examine where the same read is being mapped to in different program? Here I present a couple factors that might impact the mapping the author might want to consider: GC content Highly repetitive region Paralogous gene bodies such as some ribosome genes and mitochondrial genes or histone genes might have varying coverage in different programs. Within the tutorial, the author mentions “is every mapper allowing reads to map to the intronic region? After all, this is an RNA-seq experiment -- there should be minimal intronic genetic material.” While the statement is largely true; however, this reviewer believe the author should also mention that there are different type of RNA-seq library specifically TruSeq Stranded Total RNA prep would include contain intronic reads. Poly-A enriched RNAseq experiment could also contain intronic reads for intron retention events. Since the author appear to discuss splicing region in the tutorial, a more detailed analysis on how different programs deals with the splicing region could be of tremendous interest to certain readers. The author might also want to consider the impact of RNA-seq library protocols on the variation of splice site mapping. A number of tools have been developed for assessing RNAseq alignment quality. A review tools compared to bamDiff might make a stronger case for the novelty of the program. A comprehensive table in the tutorial or within the manuscript summarizing all the advantages and disadvantages of different mapping programs will definitely enhance the manuscript. Minor points: Perhaps include other popular aligner such as Tophat as an option. While it is great that the pipeline being on the amazon cloud allows users to bypss installation. Perhaps the author could include installation procedure or reference to individual software if the user wants to install the program on their private server. Make sure all program provide sufficient commenting. Most of the shell script lack sufficient commenting for what the program will do and why the author chose those parameters. Sentence that might benefit from rephrasing “With the rise of RNA-seq for exploring biological hypotheses has come an increase in the number of algorithms for aligning RNA-sequences to the genome.” Particularly the choice of “has come” is a bit awkward of a wording. Another sentence that might benefit from rephrasing “If they map to a conflicting region outside the region of interest, bamDiff will report the top ten regions reads are mapping to, by agglomerating reads mapping within 1kb of each other.” For certain details on RNAseq analysis, the author want to refer the reader to the following paper for additional details on RNAseq analysis. “https://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-016-0881-8” Regarding the accompanying software bamDiff. The summary statistics merely output summary statistics obtained from other mapping programs. The author might want to consider refining the output to a more presentable format like outputting to an excel file. References 1. Conesa A, Madrigal P, Tarazona S, Gomez-Cabrero D, et al.: A survey of best practices for RNA-seq data analysis. Genome Biology . 2016; 17 (1). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Shaw TI. Reviewer Report For: A cloud-based learning environment for comparing RNA-seq aligners [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :888 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9346.r16413 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-888/v1#referee-response-16413 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Griffith M. Reviewer Report For: A cloud-based learning environment for comparing RNA-seq aligners [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :888 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9346.r15576 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-888/v1#referee-response-15576 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 05 Sep 2016 Malachi Griffith , McDonnell Genome Institute, School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA; Department of Genetics, School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA; Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9346.r15576 The authors describe the results of an educational effort in which a hackathon event was used to develop an interactive tutorial to help biologists learn a fundamental NGS analysis skill. Specifically, that of selecting an appropriate read aligner, performing alignments, ... Continue reading READ ALL 