In recent years short tandem repeats (STRs) drew increased attention because of their frequent associations with disease, as well as their abundance and a diversity of roles in protein functions. Consequently, many methods were developed for detecting and genotyping tandem repeats. With wide variation in methodology, and its related settings, it is often hard to know which software can provide an optimal performance and be integrated in bioinformatics pipelines. The study by Halman and Oshlack “Accuracy of short tandem repeats genotyping tools in whole exome sequencing data” contributes some insights for scientists who wish to study short tandem repeats (STRs) loci in genomic data. The article is clearly written and should be practically useful for those developing relevant bioinformatics pipelines. The authors evaluate four STR genotyping tools, they provide a clear description and reasoning for their choices and point out the main differences between the tools. Overall, the results are not surprising and could be expected: the evaluated tools all have different strengths and weaknesses and the choice should be driven by the specific goals of the analysis. Clearly, different filtering settings will produce results of different accuracy, with a trade-off between the genotyping accuracy and the highest number of calls. As expected, homorepeats and dinucleotide repeats are the most problematic and there is currently no tool providing a good solution for such STRs. Apart from the valuable main message, the quantitative results should not be generalized, these are more to get a “feeling” of the expected accuracy than any guarantee. Indeed, it is difficult to directly compare methods that differ in so many ways: conceptually, by assumptions of random noise model, alignment procedures, filtering options and cut-offs, etc. Nevertheless, I applaud the authors for trying to accomplish (at least partially) this difficult task. At the same time, I would like to raise some points for reflection. Note, that all evaluated tools required a set of defined STRs loci. These were detected using the TRF tool (Benson 1999) 1 based on self-alignment. In our article Schaper et al. (2012) 2 , we have evaluated several tandem repeat (TR) predictors, including TRF. As one can expect (and similar to the findings in the article reviewed above), due to the heterogeneity of the methods in terms of their main concepts and assumptions, we observed a wide spectrum of variable performances over the space of TRs. Specifically, for TRF, we observed that this predictor is very conservative – having a low false positive rate across the TR space (in terms of TR unit numbers and unit length) but also a very low power (high false negative rate). For repeats with very short units, TRF is extremely conservative. Therefore, such bias in STR detection by TRF may have consequences on the observed by the authors distribution of STR unit sizes (e.g., in Figure 1b, the overrepresentation of longer 6-nt units may be explained simply by the TRF-specific bias). Therefore, I would be curious how the results of Halman and Oshlack would change, both relatively and quantitatively, were they to use a TR annotation tool with contrasting properties, i.e. that is better at detecting STRs specifically. For example, this could be Xtreme (Newman and Cooper, 2007) 3 or a meta TR predictor, each followed by statistical filtering (as we suggest in Schaper et al 2012 2 and also in Anisimova et al. 2015) 4 . These approaches typically suggest a TR unit distribution dominated by homo- and dinucleotide repeats (eg, see Delucchi et al . 2020 5 ). Finally, the authors also mention the current gap in methodology for indel calling. For repeat regions indels become particularly important - as a consequence of TR unit number variation, but also due to regular indel events. In this respect, while methods to tackle this problem are not available, one should be aware of this potential problem for their analyses, interpretation of results and overall conclusions. 