This interesting contribution by Bajorath et al. nicely extends the idea of graphical methods for SAR analysis in computational medicinal chemistry. The SARM method was shown earlier to capture SAR information from larger collections by matched molecular pairs (MMPs) and to present it in an intuitive way. Furthermore the combination of large-scale SAR analysis with virtual compounds allows guiding synthesis to explore straightforward ideas as direct outcome of SAR interpretation. Therefore this approach is attractive to rapidly identify activity trends and cliffs. The paper reports a conditional probability-based approach to activity prediction from SAR knowledge. Such a conditional probability measures the probability of activity for one compound given that a structurally related compound was active. Individual probabilities are extracted from rows and columns in the underlying SARMs. While such a probabilistic approach only works for SARMs, which are sufficiently populated and have shared substitution pattern, the approach is not restricted to compound subsets representing continuous SAR only. The prospective application of this interesting concept suffers from the lack of chemical structures, so that the degree of similarity between actives and follow-up design cannot be assessed. Furthermore the description of the HTS assay, substructure alerts, additional filtering, assay validation and retesting rates, compound QCs for actives is missing. This makes it difficult to evaluate the true HTS outcome using potentially noisy data for such a challenging PPI target. To illustrate the value of the novel activity estimation approach from matrices, it might be useful constructing a standard 2D-QSAR model and check is for predictivity of the synthesized top-20 design proposals in comparison to the matrix-derived conditional probability. It might be of interest to see, how robust both approaches work with noisy primary screening data. The manuscript title and abstract cover the content well. The chemoinformatics approach is clearly described and can most likely be reproduced. As this is not the case for the HTS actives and the assays for this study, the results will be difficult to reproduce. The authors might also want to mention, whether software tools from their study are available to the public.