In this manuscript, Gitton and colleagues explore the role of Dlx5/6 in upper jaw morphogenesis. Dlx5/6 have largely been recognized for their role in lower jaw identity, based on the fact that loss of these genes in mice results in a loss of lower jaw identity. Previous reports have further suggested that loss of Dlx5/6 in mice causes a transformation of identity from that of lower jaw to upper jaw. In this manuscript, Gitton and colleagues present 3D reconstructions of WT and Dlx5/6 mutant mouse jaws, which allow for a more detailed analysis of the jaw phenotype. They note that the Dlx5/6 jaws not only exhibit dysmorphic lower jaw structures, but the upper jaw elements are also abnormal. They propose two hypotheses that could explain this data: 1) That loss of Dlx5 in the epithelia overlying the developing upper jaw primorida disrupts signaling to the underlying CNC (as previously hypothesized by the Hinge and Caps model of jaw development), or 2) that Dlx5 is transiently expressed in cells that will later populate the maxillary arch, and that this transient expression is essential for subsequent upper jaw morphogenesis. Using lineage tracing experiments, the authors conclude that Dlx5 is indeed transiently expressed in precursors that will populate the maxillary arch, and also provide support for the Hinge and Caps model. The question that Gitton and colleagues proposed is an important one, as the role of Dlx5/6 in jaw morphogenesis is clearly not limited to lower jaw identity. The 3D reconstructions provide improved morphological detail of the Dlx5/6 mutants, and clearly show the abnormal upper jaw morphology in these mutants. The main concern I have with this manuscript as it stands is the way the two hypotheses are described, as well as their interpretation. The first hypothesis refers to Dlx5 expression in the epithelium . It is well known that Dlx5 is expressed in the surface cephalic ectoderm and in the epithelia of the nasal pits, where it is important in regulating the competence of the epithelia to signal to the underlying mesenchyme that gives rise to the nasal capsule and upper jaw. It is this role of Dlx5 in the epithelia that is predicted by, and consistent with, the Hinge and Caps hypothesis. The second hypothesis, as it is phrased, suggests that Dlx5 may be expressed in the mesenchyme of the distal upper jaw. The authors do not say mesenchyme, but this is implied by the phrase "cells populating the maxillary arch." This point needs clarification. If the authors simply mean the epithelium overlying the maxillary arch, this is not really different from hypothesis #1, except to suggest that proliferation of cells near the olfactory pit later contribute to the maxillary epithelium. It does not really provide an alternate biological explanation for the mutant phenotype. Additionally, to clarify this point, it would be nice to see sections of the embryos shown in Figure 2 that would clearly show where Lac-Z is expressed- in the epithelia or the mesenchyme. If it is absent from the mesenchyme, then it is incorrect to say that Dlx5/6 expression (transitory or not) in maxillary arch precursors is essential for upper jaw morphogenesis, as the title suggests. Other minor points: The authors state that CNCCs populating PA1 come from the prosencephalic and anterior mesenchepalic neural folds. In fact, neural crest populating PA1 derives from the posterior mesencephalon and the first and second rhomobomeres of the hindbrain. The authors point out the importance of asymmetric , articulated jaws for predation. It would be more appropriate to say that the evolution of asymmetric jaws has been important for the diversification of vertebrates, as the symmetric jaws of sharks are quite sufficient for predation. This point is also relevant for the evolution of Dlx5/6 expression in the mesenchyme. Although still nested, Dlx gene expression in sharks is distinct from that of mouse and chick, and in fact, Dlx5 expression in shark embryos occurs in the mesenchyme of the upper jaw. This difference in expression may be related to the degree of symmetry in upper and lower jaw morphology (see Compagnucci C et al ., 2013 ).