The manuscript seeks to address the underlying mechanisms of photoreceptor degeneration, particularly that due to ubiquitously expressed proteins. They hypothesize that R-loops may play a role, as several splicing and RNA helicase proteins have been implicated in degeneration and R-loop formation. Using the S9.6 antibody, they find that R-loops are formed in photoreceptor cells of the ONL at higher levels than other cell types. They reason that splicing defects could further increase DNA damage in this high R-loop environment and deplete PRPF31, mutations in which are associated with photoreceptor degeneration. In both RPE1 cells depleted for PRPF31 and primary SVF cells from mice with a PRPF31 knockin mutation, increased levels of gH2AX and 53BP1, markers of DNA breaks, are observed. In the Ki cells, this is suppressed by expression of RNAseH1 that will degrade R-loops, supporting the proposition that the damage is R-loop dependent. However, this signaling was not observed in the ONL layer in vivo but it appears that 53BP1 expression is very low compared to other tissues. They next demonstrate that in response to IR, DNA repair assessed by the appearance and loss of gH2AX is slower and independent of ATM and 53BP1, both of which appear to be lowly expressed in the mature retina. Interestingly, they identify a truncated form of ATM mRNA expressed in the retinal cells that may lead to a null or kinase dead ATM protein. Next they show that peroxide activates ATM in a manner dependent on RNAseH1 (thus, presumably R-loops) but in contrast, 53BP1 foci, that co-localize with R-loops are suppressed by peroxide. Analysis of ATM deficient cells using the HB domain to stabilize R-loops revealed fewer R-loops and 53BP1 foci, suggesting that ATM promotes R-loops formation to recruit 53BP1. Unexpectedly, gH2AX signal is strongly increased in the presence of peroxide and RNAseH1 expression, potentially reflecting deficient repair. Finally, the authors show that ATM loss promotes photoreceptor survival and ONL thickness in a mouse model. The manuscript is overall well written and the data clearly presented. There are a number of new and interesting findings regarding the expression of damage factors and their influence on the retina. However, the logic and flow of the manuscript are somewhat confusing in places. The authors switch between post-mitotic tissues and proliferating cells and there is some apparently conflicting data and overstatements that could use clarification. Here are some specific comments and suggestions to address these points. Under the header “RNA:DNA hybrids specifically accumulate in photoreceptor cells of retina” the authors state: “Higher levels of RNA:DNAhybrids are observed in adult photoreceptor nuclei than in the other retinal neurons”. Based on the data provided, this claim, that is central to the manuscript, is not well substantiated. Essentially a single cell representing multiple cell types is shown in Figure 1b in comparison to the ONL cells. To support this definitive statement that R-loops are specifically higher in the ONL , a quantitative or even semi-quantitative analysis (for example, nuclear intensity in each population) is needed. At a minimum, additional examples of other cell types should be provided to demonstrate some level of specificity. Could the discrepancy in gH2AX and 53BP1 signaling between Ki cells in culture and in vivo be due to the proliferative status of the cells? Are the ONL cells analyzed all post-mitotic? Additions to the text or a Ki67 stain of the retinal layers could address this issue, as DNA replication and mitosis could exacerbate the levels of damage. In Figure 5, the authors show that H202 activates ATM and that this is suppressed by RNAseH1 expression, thus implicating R-loops (very interesting). However, it is not directly shown that H202 actually increases R-loops. This should be stated and referenced if already known or shown directly. The authors state: “Clearly, DNA repair activity of ATM and 53BP1 depend on RNA:DNA hybrids.” I do not agree with this unqualified statement, particularly as their repair activity in relation to these hybrids is not measured in this work. Previous work has implicated R-loops in ATM activation (Tresini et al, Nature 2015) or proposed that R-loops impair ATM-mediated repair (Walker et al, Nature Neuroscience 2017) while the authors here implicate ATM activity in R-loop formation. The cause-effect relationship of ATM, R-loops and repair thus remains somewhat unclear to me. This could be clarified by a more substantial discussion or model to clarify the position of the authors. The observation in Figure 7d that RNAseH1 increases gH2AX dramatically is very interesting but could use clarification, in part because this result is not apparent in Figure 5a, where essentially the same experiment is done if I understand correctly. In 7d, gH2AX levels are reduced by H2O2+RNAseH1 expression in contrast to 5a where they are close to doubled. Considering the results of 5a show reduced ATM activation in the peroxide+RNAseH1 setting, the increase in gH2AX observed in 7d must therefore be almost completely ATM-independent. The results of Figure 4b following IR also show ATM-independent activation of gH2AX following IR. The model that ATM induces R-loops to recruit 53BP1 for repair is therefore not fully supported. Again, this could be clarified via the text or a model. The manuscript starts by focusing on the ONL in Figure 1 and pointing out that it has high R-loops and in Figure 4 showing it has low ATM/53BP1. Therefore, the fact that ATM loss protects the tissue from R-loops (Figure 8) is somewhat counterintuitive if ATM is not there to respond to R-loops or to promote their formation. This would suggest that ATM-dependent tissue loss would occur prior to postnatal day 10 when ATM is expressed. If R-loops are indeed ATM dependent, as shown in Figure 7, it would predict that the high R-loops in the ONL must occur before postnatal day 10. Have R-loop levels been assessed at different time points? The title implicates 53BP1 in photoreceptor survival while this is not actually demonstrated. ATM dependent activation of p53 is independent of 53BP1 and a pro-apoptotic role of ATM in this setting could therefore also be independent of 53BP1. Minor issues In Figure 3 legend the caption of (a) states …..after exposure to 5 Gyrase.. rather than 5 Gray. No size markers are shown on western blots, these should be added for reference and reproducibility. The Figure 5, 6 legends make no reference to the cell or tissue type being used for the experiments. Given that ATM and 53BP1 expression are lost in the retina following postnatal day 10, it becomes very relevant the age of the tissues assayed in Figure 2, 3 and 8. This should be stated in the legends. 