In recent years, it has become increasingly more evident that many ciliopathies exist not as separate diseases, but instead fall along a spectrum. Meckel syndrome 1 (MKS1) mutations may cause the severe Meckel Gruber syndrome, but recently, has been reported by Romani et al. (2014) to also be responsible for cases of the relatively more mild Joubert syndrome (JBTS). Our research on the centrosome and spindle pole associated protein 1 (CSPP1) gene supports the notion that mutations within the same gene can carry a wide range of phenotypes (Tuz et al. , 2015). We identified 18 individuals with JBTS from 14 families with biallelic truncating mutations in CSPP1 , and saw no evidence of a correlation between phenotype and the site of truncation. Surprisingly, individuals with the most N-terminal truncations displayed the least severe phenotype. Our findings also revealed that siblings with the same mutations had varying phenotypes, suggesting that other factors outside the mutation of the ciliopathy gene itself plays a role in the ultimate phenotype of the affected individual. The phenotypic heterogeneity of individuals with JBTS with the same mutations has not gone unnoticed. Recently, Ben-Omran et al . (2015) described two Qatari families with histories of consanguineous marriages with the same CSPP1 mutation, but yet, the probands displayed clinical heterogeneity. Ben-Omran and colleagues (2015) argue that highly inbred families likely have less diversity in genetic modifiers, and attribute their findings of clinical heterogeneity to unidentified stochastic events that occur in development. They correctly acknowledge that a disadvantage of their study is the lack of identical twins. Murine ciliopathy models provide one way of controlling for the contribution of genetic background to the eventual phenotype of the affected individual. In this correspondence from Ramsbottom, Miles, and Sayer, the authors provide important insight into the role of genetic background in modifying transgenic ciliopathy phenotypes. Here, the authors reflect on a recent publication in the journal Human Molecular Genetics by Rachel et al. (2015) which describes different ciliopathy phenotypes in mice with different Cep290 mutations (a constitutive deletion of Cep290 (proposed null) and a genetrap allele (proposed truncated Cep290)). Moreover, the phenotypes were clearly modified by the genetic background of the mice. Further support for this came from comparisons of these phenotypes to other published Cep290 transgenic mice with different genetic alterations. Genetic background and the modifiers that can be in these backgrounds is a significant consideration that needs to be appreciated in the cilia field as it has in many other fields, such as behavioral neuroscience. In fact, we have published work in which we have shown that C57BL/6J mice with a targeted deletion of Ahi1 , another gene causing Joubert syndrome, die within 12 hours after birth, but if these mice are backcrossed to FVB, Balbc/J, or Swiss Webster mice (10 generations), then post-natal survivability is significantly enhanced and most mice can reach adulthood. This correspondence serves as a very important reminder that the genetic background on which you are studying your ciliopathy phenotype can result in different phenotypes dependent on the mouse strain and therefore needs to be considered in interpreting ones results. Consequently, identification of such differing ciliopathy phenotypes on different genetic backgrounds also serve as an important tool for not only potentially identifying modifiers of ciliopathy phenotypes, but may also result in the identification of new ciliopathy genes. Ramsbottom, Miles, and Sayer argue that a difference in genetic background could account for disparities in some phenotypes amongst individuals with the same mutation, a finding that is supported by our work in humans and mice. However, as the authors point out, murine models of ciliopathies do not always recapitulate the findings in affected individuals with JBTS. Thus, a possible difference between murine and human regulation of ciliopathy phenotype must also be considered.