The authors aimed to evaluate the “gateway effect” of baseline e-cigarette use predicting cigarette smoking initiation among youths, addressing the inadequate adjustment of confounders considered in the previous published studies. The first two waves of PATH data from the youth sample were used for this purpose. The strength of this study is that the authors used multiple approaches to evaluate this gateway effect, and performed five sets of sensitivity analysis. Propensity scores for e-cigarette use at wave 1 were created. Propensity score based approaches are preferred to statistically control for numerous confounding variables; however, this approach was not completely adequate as it appears in this study for several reasons. A few major concerns are below. First, due to the availability of data at the time of analyses, the confounding variables were measured concurrently with e-cigarette exposure or afterwards (i.e., analyses investigating residual confounding). Considering the Wave 3 PATH data have been available since fall 2018, the authors are encouraged to revise the manuscript using data from the first 3 waves. They state they will do so but they could probably access the data at this point. Second, the authors aimed to address the inadequate adjustment of confounding in previous studies, however, this limitation still exists in the current study. As a result of Step 1, only a set of 13 covariates were included of the main analysis, sensitivity analyses, and residual confounding analysis. Moreover, it is unclear whether the balancing of covariates was achieved between the (e-cigarette) exposure and non-exposure groups. A few details regarding each approach need to be provided. Specifically, it was unclear what the authors meant by saying “the first analysis was a weighted logistic regression analysis.” How was a weighting variable created? Was this what the authors called “no adjustment of propensity” afterwards (in the first paragraph of the Sensitivity Analysis section, and in Table 4)? The results from the “adjustment as quintiles” and “adjustment as a continuous variable” approaches typically agree, and the effect of e-cigarette exposure would be biased if only a subset of confounding variables were considered in analyses. Moreover, the “using the variables making up the score individually” approach was actually a traditional covariate approach, which assumed a linear association between the outcome and each covariate. Authors need to justify whether this assumption was satisfied or not before they concluded the findings of the study. Third, in analyses investigating residual confounding, authors used some of the covariates from Wave 2, which might be influenced by the exposure of “e-cigarette” at Wave 1. In this case, the partial coefficient of e-cigarette use on outcome is actually the controlled direct effect in a mediation analysis. This coefficient only showed the partial effect of e-cigarette use on outcome, which was an underestimated total effect of exposure. In this set of analysis, the confounding was over-adjusted. Fourth, all analyses only involved participants with complete data for each variable considered in the group being analyzed. Missing complete at random was actually assumed in all analyses. Authors need to report the sample sizes of the original data and the working data, and justify whether/why this assumption was valid in this study. In addition, a few minor issues are below. Methods: Some information in the last paragraph of the Introduction section need to be relocated in the Methods section, under the title of “sample and data collection”. Software: what is the ROELEE program? Please briefly introduce this software. Under what circumstance did ROELEE fail to converge (and SAS did not)? Supplementary document: the very long list of variables was not helpful to understand how confounding variables were selected. It seems like the authors have already selected (without details on criteria) 60 smoking predictor variables out of 200+. Please provide sample questions as needed. Sensitivity analysis: report sample size of each sensitivity analysis in Table 4. 