A simple mathematical yet biological model of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell has been developed to capture the cellular characteristics (f-I curve, rheobase current, firing rate adaptation and rebound spiking) of those neurons in an intact preparation of hippocampus. Although this study does not examine any biological question or hypothesis directly, the simplified models of CA1 pyramidal cells, in conjunction with a similar model of the fast spiking interneurons previously developed by this lab, can be used in future modeling studies that explore the network properties in the hippocampus. Comments: First paragraph of the Introduction: "To address this recognized difficulty we are developing models that are based on well-defined experimental contexts in which both the cellular and the network aspects of the models can be considered simultaneously." Please specify more clearly about the network aspects, you are referring to. First paragraph of Introduction: "Using such models, we aim to help determine, predict and test biologically based mechanisms." This is a bit misleading. In this work, the model only replicates biological behavior of neurons. There is no clear prediction of any biological phenomenon. End of the second paragraph of Introduction: "we can build and examine several large network models that are aligned with the biology. Subsequent analyses of these large network models could determine the mechanisms by which particular cellular characteristics critically contribute to the population activities observed in our experimental context." It would be more exciting to construct network models and make biological predictions. Construction of simple cellular models to capture biological characteristics of individual neurons is not novel. In fact, the authors have used similar modeling approach to develop models in references 6 and 23. Second paragraph of Results - Stronger adaptation vs weaker adaptation - Has it been shown before? If yes, please include some references here. If not, I am wondering if it would be worthwhile to check the adaptation by comparing steady-state ISIs. Maybe different neurons have different time course of adaptation but at the end they show same level of adaptation. If we run the model for longer duration, how does the behavior change, does it continue to adapt or it reaches a steady-state? Second paragraph of Strongly adapting model: "If these properties (f-I curve, rheobase current and adaptation) are captured, then the model will spike with similar frequencies as the physiological cell given the same amount of synaptic input." Is the applied protocol (continuous injections of currents for 1s) sufficient to characterize the response of these neurons in the presence of synaptic inputs? Second paragraph of Weakly adapting models: "In addition, to obtain an appropriate rheobase current, we included a short in the applied current." I do not understand why I shift term is included in I applied to adjust rheobase? Third paragraph of Discussion and conclusion: "In previous work, we used adaptation characteristics from the literature to develop simple models of CA3 pyramidal cell models, and showed that population characteristics were in line with the experimental data." It would be interesting and more insightful to see how this work can be extended to network models as has been done previously (in references 6 and 23) by the authors. Third paragraph of Discussion and conclusion: "Here, with our simple mathematical model representation and knowledge of the biological variability in hand, one is easily aware of any changes in the parameters of the model that would result in large deviations from the experimental data." This is very important aspect. But that would only be possible if the effects of parameters can be characterized. It would be interesting to see any such generalizations. Fourth paragraph of Discussion and conclusion: "Here, we have developed out cellular models in the experimental context for which we build the network models to determine physiologically-based mechanisms." Building network models incorporating CA1 pyramidal cells and determining physiologically-based mechanisms is clearly not presented in this paper and should be indicated as future work. In Figure 3, please also show rebound firing of recorded cells, if available. In Figure 2, the label pointing to green dotted line is misspelled. It should be final curve instead of "finial curve" . 