The present study aimed to validate RS800CX for assessing HRV during rest, moderate cycling and post exercise recovery by comparing its data with the data obtained from a gold standard ECG device. The study has been conducted very well. The acquisition of ECG signals for HRV analysis in all three conditions has been done simultaneously from both the devices. Statistical tests used to analyze the data are appropriate. The study has found that Polar RS800CX is a valid tool for monitoring HRV in individuals at resting conditions, but it displays inconsistency when used during exercise at 60% of maximal heart rate and recovery periods. I found the paper interesting, however, I have some comments that need to be discussed for the improvement of the work. Introduction: The introduction is well, however, there is a comment for the use of HRV as a diagnostic tool written on pages (in abstract: page 1, line 3; in introduction: page 3, para 1, line 7 last line). The HRV can be taken as a prognostic tool rather than a diagnostic tool. It is one of the independent predictors of sudden cardiac death. However, it is not a very specific test for diagnosis of a disease. It is better to write down "autonomic nervous system" rather than " autonomous nervous system" (page 3, para 1, line 5). Methods: The description about volunteers and the experimental protocol are well written. However, the methods applied for the acquisition of ECG signals and processing of ECG signals for HRV analysis are not written. What were the sampling frequency, low pass filter or band pass filter and gain for ECG signal acquisition in both the devices? Whether all ECG signals were checked for errors and edited for errors or discarded the data are not mentioned. These major points are missing. At times, peaks are not detected by the algorithm used in the devices during exercise and recovery period, because, features of ECG are not very regular. These signals need to be properly checked manually for missing peaks or artifacts detected as peaks and if required need to be edited properly following the standard rule of editing signals for HRV. In Polar devices RR intervals need to be checked for errors, i.e. very short or very long RR intervals in comparison to the average RR intervals. These are not mentioned in the methods section in the present study. This is important for HRV analysis. It would be better to record baseline respiratory rate also in such a type of study. Results: Results written in the texts are well, however, there are comments for the tables: The titles of all three tables are not self-explanatory. It would be better to rewrite them. It would be better to write down the number of the cases in the titles of the tables rather than in the legend of the tables. The tables are long. It would be better to remove "Mean HR and STDHR". These parameters are not very important for HRV interpretation. It would be better to write down the full form of NN50 before pNN50 in the table legends. The level of significance has not been mentioned in all three table legends. It is must be mentioned. There is a comment for SD1 representation given in the legends of Tables 1, 2 and 3. The SD1 represents the dispersion of the points perpendicular to the line of identity rather than the dispersion of the points along the line of identity. Please check for it. In the source data set supplied, I found markedly reduced Mean RR intervals during recovery period by Polar RS800CX. Similarly, markedly reduced Mean RR intervals are found in several subjects during exercise period by ECG device. These RR intervals need to be rechecked manually for the errors. Discussion: In the present study, it has been discussed well that the majority of the previous studies showed that other Polar HR monitors (i.e. S810, 810s, S810i, V800) showed good agreement with ECG in detecting RR intervals in supine and standing positions of adult individuals and children. Also, during exercise periods Polar S810 and Polar V800 showed low biases and good agreements with ECG devices. The present study showed disagreement of Polar RS800CX with the ECG in HRV indices. The error rate of Mean RR intervals obtained from Polar RS800CX and the ECG was 28.1%. However, the reasons have not been discussed. Also, in the methods, sampling frequency and gain for both the devices are not mentioned. ECG signal processing for HRV analysis is also not mentioned. These parts of the methods are very important and must be rechecked before interpretation of results and drawing conclusions. 