J. Jess Naveja et al present a methodology for representation of chemical space of small sets of compounds. In general, the approach involves selection of satellite compounds from the database, computing the similarities of all compounds in the database to these satellites, and finally projection of the resulting similarity matrix using principal component analysis. J. Jess Naveja et al further report various methods for selecting satellite compounds (backward or forward selection approach; selection at random or selection by diversity check) and show how the number of selected satellite compounds influence the quality of projection. Comments: The authors are completely hiding the fact that similarity mapping is quite well-known and absolutely not new, the authors should read and cite Awale et al., J. Chem. Inf. Model., 2015, 55 (8), pp 1509–1516 and the detailed discussion of literature precedents on similarity mapping presented therein. The authors compare their satellites to the satellite compounds used by T. Oprea in his 2001 approach to mapping chemical space. Obviously either they did not read Oprea’s paper or they misunderstood it: Oprea’s satellites are artificial molecules with extreme properties such as to orient the PCA projection and stretch its dimensions in reproducible directions. However the projection is simply PCA, and does not involve similarity mapping. In similarity mapping the satellites are molecules from within the database to which similarities are calculated. In the abstract, author mentioned that “3D diversity played a secondary role, although it becomes increasingly relevant as 2D diversity increases”. However, I didn't found the relevant explanation in main text supporting this statement. Figure 1 and Figure 2: The five random sets in the legend. Its not clear exactly what the author meant by five random sets. As per my understanding the author used the complete set of compounds for each target and what is changing is the random selection of satellites, which is repeated for five times. In case of forward selection approach: “..With that in mind, we decided to design a method that starts with a given percentage of the database as satellites, and then keeps adding a proportion of them until the correlation between the former and the updated data is of at least 0.9. ” The correlation between projections obtained from the current set of satellites and projections obtained from former set of satellites might well be high, but still the correlation to the projection obtained from the complete similarity matrix is low. How one can assure the quality of projection in this case? For all plots axis labels are too small to read. 