Ekaterina Antonova, et al. reported their successful integration of " P2A-eGFP-CMV-NeoR " cassette in chicken DF-1cells, achieving eGFP expression under control of the endogenous GAPDH promoter. As the authors claimed, their approach may be used to insert genes of interest under control of tissue-specific promoters for further producing genetically modified birds. The experiments were well designed and the paper was well written. However, there are still some concerns: 1. Page 3, in the Introduction section, the authors claimed that "Meanwhile CRISPR/Cas9 was used only to knock out genes in poultry". Actually, HDR-based gene editing and integration have also been reported previously as the authors cited (Wang et al. ,2017, Dimitrov et al., 2016; page 10) in the Discussion section. 2. Although the guide RNA (gRNA) is also named single guide RNA (sgRNA), it would be better for the authors to use gRNA or sgRNA consistently through the whole paper. 3. Page 7, the authors claimed "FACS analysis showed 90% of eGFP positive cells in the cell population(Figure S6)", but the data as Figure S6 shown was "EGFP + , 88.1". Nevertheless, page 10, in the Discussion section, the authors again claimed " Using drug selection, we achieved up to 89% targeted integration". In my opinion, they mean the same data. Please check it. 4. The in vitro assay demonstrated all 3 gRNAs functioned (Figure S3), but the T7E1 assay suggested only gRNA2 functioned in cells (Figure2). Thus, the in vitro assay is of no sense and is no longer needed. As a suggestion, the authors may use surrogate reporters 1 , 2 for future validation of gRNA activity. 5. Besides, the off-target effect of gRNA2 was not assessed. 6. As the authors discussed in the Discussion section (page 9), " transfection efficiency of the DF1cells with multiple plasmids was less than 50%". Regarding that the Cas9 gene, the U6-gRNA expression cassette and the RFP marker gene can be easily cloned together within one single plasmid, why did the authors use 3 separate plasmids? 7. One more concern. The bi-allelic integration in mammalian cells is usually very low. However, here both the PCR and ddPCR analysis implied that all copies (alleles) of GAPDH gene were integrated at the 3'-end with the intent eGFP cassette, after the enrichment. Although the authors described that " as it is known that birds have one copy of the gene (GAPDH, page7)", I think it is a pair of alleles but not a single GAPDH gene. Thus, I am wondering that how the mono-allelic integration became bi-allelic after the selection? By HR and the untargeted allelic will gain the integration of eGFP from the targeted one? 