The pipeline described in this article seems promising. I was able to partly reproduce the results, as well as run similar treatment on a single cell dataset of my own. However: The fundamental flaws mentioned by other reviewers over a month ago, still haven't been addressed: the pipeline requires Dev versions of R and bioconductor packages, yet makes no mention of it anywhere in the article. In fact, even after installing the Bioconductor Dev versions of all required modules, it would appear the pipeline no longer works with the latest versions (e.g. scran_1.1.10, with R 3.3.1): isSpike(sce) - "ERCC" Error in `isSpike-`(`*tmp*`, value = "Spike") : 'isSpike' must be logical or NULL etc. While likely easy to fix, this type of incompatibility issues undermine the entire point of the article and perfectly illustrate the dangers of relying on development versions for this type of pipeline. Additionally, the example dataset used by the article, is loaded from an Excel spreadsheet, which is generally considered extremely bad practice . It would behoove the authors of a software walkthrough aimed at somewhat-novice bioinformaticians to encourage best practices. In the current conditions, and until some major revision work is done, it is impossible to properly review the pipeline and approve this article unreservedly. References 1. Zeeberg BR, Riss J, Kane DW, Bussey KJ, et al.: Mistaken identifiers: gene name errors can be introduced inadvertently when using Excel in bioinformatics. BMC Bioinformatics . 2004; 5 : 80 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT duVerle D. Reviewer Report For: A step-by-step workflow for low-level analysis of single-cell RNA-seq data with Bioconductor [version 2; peer review: 3 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2122 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10234.r15991 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2122/v1#referee-response-15991 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 18 Oct 2016 Aaron Lun , Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, Cambridge, UK 18 Oct 2016 Author Response Thanks for your comments, David. Regarding the incompatibility in software versions, we have been waiting for the imminent release of the latest version of Bioconductor (3.4) before revising the article. ... Continue reading Thanks for your comments, David. Regarding the incompatibility in software versions, we have been waiting for the imminent release of the latest version of Bioconductor (3.4) before revising the article. It seemed more prudent to wait for the latest software to become available, rather than making stop-gap modifications to accommodate soon-to-be-obsolete versions. We believe that this update should clear up any problems with execution of the workflow. We agree that Excel spreadsheets are a poor formatting choice for bioinformatics work. Unfortunately, the processed dataset is provided in this format from NCBI GEO (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE61533, see Supplementary files). While having to tackle Excel formatting is not ideal, it is preferable to having to re-process the entire dataset to obtain counts from the raw read sequences. Moreover, at no point do we save into Excel - analysis results are always stored in simple tab-delimited formats, and the R objects themselves are saved in serialized form. Thanks for your comments, David. Regarding the incompatibility in software versions, we have been waiting for the imminent release of the latest version of Bioconductor (3.4) before revising the article. It seemed more prudent to wait for the latest software to become available, rather than making stop-gap modifications to accommodate soon-to-be-obsolete versions. We believe that this update should clear up any problems with execution of the workflow. We agree that Excel spreadsheets are a poor formatting choice for bioinformatics work. Unfortunately, the processed dataset is provided in this format from NCBI GEO (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE61533, see Supplementary files). While having to tackle Excel formatting is not ideal, it is preferable to having to re-process the entire dataset to obtain counts from the raw read sequences. Moreover, at no point do we save into Excel - analysis results are always stored in simple tab-delimited formats, and the R objects themselves are saved in serialized form. Competing Interests: None declared. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 18 Oct 2016 Aaron Lun , Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, Cambridge, UK 18 Oct 2016 Author Response Thanks for your comments, David. Regarding the incompatibility in software versions, we have been waiting for the imminent release of the latest version of Bioconductor (3.4) before revising the article. ... Continue reading Thanks for your comments, David. Regarding the incompatibility in software versions, we have been waiting for the imminent release of the latest version of Bioconductor (3.4) before revising the article. It seemed more prudent to wait for the latest software to become available, rather than making stop-gap modifications to accommodate soon-to-be-obsolete versions. We believe that this update should clear up any problems with execution of the workflow. We agree that Excel spreadsheets are a poor formatting choice for bioinformatics work. Unfortunately, the processed dataset is provided in this format from NCBI GEO (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE61533, see Supplementary files). While having to tackle Excel formatting is not ideal, it is preferable to having to re-process the entire dataset to obtain counts from the raw read sequences. Moreover, at no point do we save into Excel - analysis results are always stored in simple tab-delimited formats, and the R objects themselves are saved in serialized form. Thanks for your comments, David. Regarding the incompatibility in software versions, we have been waiting for the imminent release of the latest version of Bioconductor (3.4) before revising the article. It seemed more prudent to wait for the latest software to become available, rather than making stop-gap modifications to accommodate soon-to-be-obsolete versions. We believe that this update should clear up any problems with execution of the workflow. We agree that Excel spreadsheets are a poor formatting choice for bioinformatics work. Unfortunately, the processed dataset is provided in this format from NCBI GEO (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE61533, see Supplementary files). While having to tackle Excel formatting is not ideal, it is preferable to having to re-process the entire dataset to obtain counts from the raw read sequences. Moreover, at no point do we save into Excel - analysis results are always stored in simple tab-delimited formats, and the R objects themselves are saved in serialized form. Competing Interests: None declared. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: McDavid A. Reviewer Report For: A step-by-step workflow for low-level analysis of single-cell RNA-seq data with Bioconductor [version 2; peer review: 3 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2122 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10234.r16243 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2122/v1#referee-response-16243 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 30 Sep 2016 Andrew McDavid , Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10234.r16243 Lun, McCarthy and Marioni share a workflow for analysis of single cell RNAseq (scRNA-seq) data using software they have developed. The workflow is illustrated on two data sets of varying size and characteristic. The computational and statistical findings of the ... Continue reading READ ALL 