 Article Summary This was a SWAT within the KReBS trial. The purpose of the SWAT was to evaluate the effectiveness of the inclusion of a pen with a postal questionnaire, compared to no pen being included, on the retention rate in a large orthopaedic trial. The authors conclude that pens are potentially effective as an incentive for retention. Abstract The background section needs to be amended as your SWAT did not evaluate retention in clinical trials. Likewise, the conclusion is not supported. Please see the comments on the conclusion section below. Introduction Section In the introduction section, you mention the Bell et al. study and state that the authors say the results are uncertain, and in response to this you conducted your study. However, say what the reason for the uncertainty is. It would be helpful to give support to the necessity for your research study to include the shortcomings of Bell et al. Please amend. Methods Section Intervention All SWAT participants received pre-planned retention strategies within KReBS. This sentence is left hanging there with no further explanation. What were these retention strategies? When you say all SWAT participants received these retention strategies, do you mean the SWAT comparator group also? IF so, why is this sentence under the “intervention” heading? It implies that you are speaking about the intervention group only. Perhaps you’d be better saying both SWAT intervention and SWAT comparator groups received pre-planned retention strategies if that is what you meant. Please qualify. Outcomes I question the selection of the secondary outcome, the proportion of participants who completed the questionnaire. In reality, if someone begins, whether it’s the York CTU pen or their own, what does the supply of the York pen have to do with the completion of the questionnaire? You then go on in your results to state that questionnaire completion was highly correlated with questionnaire return. How useful is this measure then? I would like to see the questionnaire completion rate removed as a focus of this SWAT. It additionally detracts from your main findings. Randomisation What do you mean by two batches, and why were there two batches? Conclusion Your conclusion is not supported by your results. Your conclusion should be that pens are effective as an incentive for returning questionnaires in postal studies, and also effective at increasing the time to return. You did not measure retention, as this was a postal questionnaire and not a follow-up of the patients at the centre. It’s a stretch to extrapolate that filling out a questionnaire and returning it is a measure of retention in a clinical trial. I would be interested to know how many of those that received the pen return to the CTU for the main trial for their next appointment. Please modify your conclusions. 