This article provides a brief description of an attempt to introduce experiential learning into lectures in the biochemical sciences. As described below, the author highlights a fundamental aspect of the subject that some students struggle to understand fully and proposes an approach that aims to help students engage better with the topic and the issues involved. Structures of biological molecules are critical to their function and this is a core principle that must be understood by all students of the field of biochemistry. Full appreciation of this link requires students to develop 3-dimensional knowledge of a molecule and relate this to its biochemical activities. These are challenging concepts to introduce to students, especially in large cohorts. This article describes a strategy that takes advantage of the increasing availability and cost effectiveness of 3D printers to prepare molecules that can be “handled” by the students. The 3D printed biological molecules are used as active learning tools to stimulate student engagement and a deeper understanding of the link between structure and biochemical function. The approach described in the article is that core knowledge should first be established through conventional teaching approaches. The teaching delivery is then supplemented by discussions among the students and lecturer about the printed molecules, allowing interrogation of its physical environment. The article provides an appropriate discussion of a topic that is clearly challenging to inexperienced learners in the biochemical sciences and suggests an approach that goes beyond the conventional lecture. However, there is no evaluation of whether the approach is successful or cost-effective and, thus, readers cannot easily judge if they should consider it in their own teaching environment. There is a comment that the author “observed that this approach led to increased student engagement in the lecture theatre as the students are willing to talk with each other and the lecturer as confidence in their understanding increased”, but there is no direct feedback from students involved in the sessions. The article suggests that its approach would be of value to other disciplines. In fact, the use of artefacts and the potential to handle objects is frequently used within the arts and humanities, particularly in subjects that combine history and art. The benefits of such approaches have been well described in the pedagogical literature for these disciplines and this article would be improved if it provided a deeper review and analysis of such information. To be of improved value to the biochemistry teaching community, this study needs to provide a much clearer hypothesis. What is (are) its fundamental aim(s) and how will its success be tested and evaluated? It would be beneficial if a study could be developed that tested whether inclusion of the printed molecules in teaching sessions led to improved biochemical understanding among the students involved. Clearly this could take a significant amount of time and effort and may be beyond the remit of the study that is described. Whether or not it is possible to evaluate the success of the approach, there are a number of important details that would be useful to assist other educators in considering whether they should adopt the strategy. For example, how many molecules are needed for each group of student and what is the approximate cost of preparing the molecules? Is there any value in using the approach multiple times (with different molecules) within the same module or same cohort of students? In relation to publication of this article, it is not clear that it has been submitted as the most appropriate type of article for F1000Research . The study has been submitted as an Observation Article and the guidelines to authors state that: “Observation Articles allow the description of a novel observation that may be unexpected, and possibly currently without explanation.” It is not clear to me what details in the article are “unexpected” or “without explanation” - these points need to be made much clearer to the reader. In considering the different types of articles published within F1000Research , it seems that it may be more applicable as a Research Note. The article is reasonably clear and well written, but there are some minor errors that should be corrected by careful proof-reading. The title could be improved by highlighting that it focuses on “biochemistry teaching”. In summary, this article describes an interesting but rather straight forward intervention to allow biochemistry students to gain a better appreciation of the link between molecular structure and function. The suggested approach makes good use of computer-based technologies that are becoming more accessible and it is thus likely to be of interest to a wide group of educators in the biosciences (and other disciplines). Unfortunately, the study does not present any evaluation of the effect of the approach on student learning or understanding. Such information should be obtained from further cohorts of students in order to enable other educators to consider the value in the approach.