Familial cases of rare diseases provide a remarkable opportunity to delineate important biological processes relevant to human disease. Of particular importance, are the implications for future therapeutic strategies for refractory and progressive diseases such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Iqbal and Sayer through their report elegantly present the natural history of TRPC6-associated glomerulopathy arising as a result of the mutation c.2683C p.Arg895Cys which concurs with previous reports of disease manifestation of the same genotype by Reiser et al in 2005. Presentation tends to have an insidious onset in mid-adulthood and despite intervention with ACEIs, patients with this genotype progress towards end-stage renal disease. Functional characterisation of the TRPC6 variant, p.Arg895Cys, utilising electrophysiological studies, revealed the likelihood that this variant represented a gain of function in the encoded mutant protein. Increased intracellular calcium influx as a result of gain of function mutations in TRPC6 have been shown to lead to increased podocyte apoptosis, a common pathogenetic mechanism of FSGS. Therefore, downstream inhibition of increased TRPC6 activation, represents a therapeutic strategy for patients with TRPC6-associated glomerulopathy. As highlighted by Iqbal and Sayer, without effective treatment for this disease, progression to end-stage renal disease and renal transplantation occurs. For this particular variant, the risk of recurrence post renal transplant is negligible. Including the patient perspective is an innovative approach to the case reporting of interesting pedigrees of rare disease. By undertaking such a strategy, Iqbal and Sayer highlight the importance of patient engagement in genomics research by consent for testing of additional affected and unaffected family members to fully characterise the genotype-specific disease manifestations. Furthermore, it provides an answer for the affected patients and provides a rationale for clinical decisions relating to their care. Importantly, this report also provided perspective with regards to future testing of prospective asymptomatic younger family members and whether to burden families with advance knowledge of prospective disease susceptibility. What this knowledge does offer, of course, is the possibility to influence the disease course prior to manifestation of overt disease symptoms and careful consideration of this prospect should be highlighted at time of consent. 