Manuscript by Quinn entitled “Visualizing balances of compositional data” introduces a new way to visualize balances and component partitions in compositional data. Typically, these are visualized using dendrograms where branches represent the component partitions (obtained through an external method and/or expert knowledge). The height of the branching point in the y-axis represents the proportion of variance explained, while intersection on the branching point represents the mean of the balance. Structure of the dendrogram relates to the partition hierarchy. In addition, boxplots can be defined on top of the dendrogram, at each branching point, depicting the distribution of balance values. These dendrograms are useful when a bunch of variables are analyzed but are hardly interpretable when in a high-dimensional space, which is often the case in omics derived data. At present, the interpretation of CoDA results in terms of clinical/biological meaning is one of the bottlenecks for the adoption of such theoretical frameworks in omics data-based clinical research. In this context, new ideas on CoDA visualization are welcome and useful. Quinn’s proposal splits the data that characterizes balances into two parts, one regarding the partition of the components into balances (left sub-plot) and the other to the distribution of the balances values when applied to the compositional data and the distribution of the variance of the same data (right sub-plot).This is similar to moving the boxplots aside from the dendrogram and turning the dendrogram into a simple sequential partition diagram. In addition, a grouping factor can be projected into the right sub-plot which facilitates to see the difference in one or more balances according to a response categorical variance, due to a common-scale axis for all balances. The representation of balances is now “free” from a dendrogram structure and this presents some advantages such as ranking or selecting over the balances but also some inconveniences such as the need to check which components are in the “num” and “den” for each of the balances, which is now a moving target. I think that this new presentation of balance data is useful in the low-dimensional setting. Unfortunately, the interpretation of these split diagrams appears still difficult in high-dimensional space as shown in sup info example and needs an inspection of each balance sub-space. While representing proportion of variance using line thickness is innovative, it is also difficult to compare between different balances. The code to do this is based on ggplot2, available and easy to use and adapt to each user needs. Input is a compositional data frame and a binary partition, depending on the role of the component in the balance. Thus, the input must be generated outside of the present code, which only represents the data, which allows for flexibility, and the code is only focused on calculation and representation of pre-specified balances. I have some minor suggestions to improve the functionality of the code which may facilitate data interpretation: Selection: Author has added the possibility to plot multi-group boxplots. The author already mentions that this could be used for statistical testing, but it would be helpful to add an option select/highlight those balances that have statistically significant differences among groups and/or plot some statistical testing results on the right-hand-plot. Ranking: It looks like balances are ranked on the proportion of variance explained. However, in the provided code/examples, it is unclear whether the default ranking of the balances is the decreasing proportion of variance explained since this is not the case when the weigh.var option is set to TRUE. Also, it would also be useful to rank the balances according to their discrimination power over a response variable. With the standard balance dendrogram, when overlapping datasets, the variance for each of the subgroups could be represented (Pawlowsky-Glahn, Egozcue, Austrian Journal of Statistics,2011). I think this feature is lost in this representation. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow by the expert reader. I’d like to highlight some minor points. The author states that these diagrams can accommodate high dimensional data, but it does that by focusing on sub-groups of the high dimensional data, and in the code, these sub-groups are selected previous to the balance function. Therefore, the proposed code/diagram can really accommodate subsets of high dimensional data. Some details that caught my attention and that may be useful for future development: The name of the main function is balance . It overlaps with compositions::balance and ape::balance. While this is not a hard problem it may add confusion to the function namespace in this kind of analysis. I’d consider it changing it at this stage. When group-based boxplotting, data points are scattered over both (or more) boxplots, it would be clearer if data points were scattered over their own group boxplot. In the Figure S1 example. Some balances show zero values and near-zero variances, probably due to zero over-inflation and the zero-dominance(downstream imputed) balances. This is kind of a white noise in the diagram. Correlation: While it is outside the scope of this work, for the sake of utility, it would be helpful, when there is a continuous response variable, to plot points within the scatter plot within a y sub-axis for each boxplot in such a way that correlation between each of the balances and the response variable is visible and also be able to highlight/select those balances. 