 SUMMARY This work by Beard et al ., is an interesting, consequential and mind-tickling work, definitely worth considering and being published, provided that several issues are addressed. Strong points: Sound “horizontal” (multi-organ) physiological modelling simulation (following a systems/engineering analysis and conception). Modular, integrative, multi-dynamic approach. Targeted, specific hypothesis - proposes one possible/sufficient etiogenic mechanism in the context of age–related hypertension. Weak points: Phenomenological equations. Some conclusions drawn are too assertive (especially with respect to such a complex, multi-factorial, and evolving, pathology: hypertension); the likeliness of the conclusion appears strongly dependent on the limited physiology (and pathology) that is implemented. 1. GENERAL In bio-medical research, it has become understood that mathematical modelling and simulation (MS) can provide a complementary approach to experiments and are a necessary response to extreme biological complexity. Indeed, biochemical and genetic circuits modelling are becoming mature and productive. On the other hand, there remains a very serious “modelling gap” to be filled between the (“low-level”) biological/physiological processes and (“higher-level”) pathophysiology. Simply put, the “CV-circulatory-pressive” construct by Guyton and colleagues (started in the late 60’s, with 1972 and 1992 milestones; Guyton et al ., 1972 ; see Montani Van Vliet, 2009 , Moss et al., 2012 ) remains a landmark, to the point that most, if not all modelling endeavours refer to it in one way or another. This is because it was an exhaustive attempt to describe the CV circulatory system in its physiological entirety, including high-level interactions such as an integrated CV and renal system. Many versions, declinations (and improvements) do exist, including the late HumMod ( Hester et al, 2011 should perhaps be cited, instead of Abran et al. , 2007 , since it is the current evolution of QCP/QHP). However, as mentioned by the Authors, for various reasons it is difficult or impossible to rationally understand and exploit those models (e.g. “too large” in the case of HumMod, or “not identified” as in the case of Guyton’s models of 1972 or 1992). Beard et al. propose here a “top-down”, modular, “engineering” high-quality MS work, as a rationally exploitable (numerically identifiable) alternative to Guyton’s model, in order to explore hypertension etiogenic hypothesis related to arterial stiffness, baroreflex and the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). The main incentive relates to the controversed Guytonian view that long-term regulation of arterial pressure is driven by the kidney. In that context the Authors try to demonstrate that arterial stiffening (as in ageing) and/or the central nervous system (here simplified as the “baroreflex”) could provide a sufficient explanation(s) of hypertension, through interactions with the kidney pressure-natriuresis function and the RAS. The significance and relevance of this work for CV regulations and hypertension is obvious, although (i) it is limited by the model itself (i.e. effectively implemented features, simplifications, phenomenological approach for equations, etc.) and (ii) some of the conclusions/assertions should be tempered (among other reasons: given the multifactorial/multi-dynamic nature of HT, that it has been resistant to investigation for more than a century now, and given the simplicity of the proposed construct). 2. MAJOR COMMENTS In the targeted domain of the pathophysiology of blood pressure regulation and primary hypertension, this work proposes a rigorously constructed and parameterized mathematical model of the “long-term control of arterial pressure” (but see below). The authors should emphasize however that the model numerical instantiation centers on dog (or rabbit). Also of important note (this should be addressed in the revised version), no mention is made of the parameterization procedure and tools or sensitivity analysis. Moreover, the parameterization is done under the (quite frequent) implicit hypothesis that arterial pressure regulation and other CV-related processes only differ quantitatively (e.g. in parameter values) and are otherwise qualitatively similar e.g. in dog, rabbit and man. This very point is rarely, if ever, addressed. We do feel that in the present turmoil of “physiological” models targeting *human* pathology, this should be, at minimum, mentioned and preferably justified. Given that the Authors target human hypertension, and especially given the phenomenological approach chosen, why did they not directly parameterize their model as a “human” CVR model? As a matter of fact, the anatomy and mechanical/physiological/biochemical properties and functions of the human CV system, arteries, heart, kidney and RAS are, to the best of our knowledge, now understood and numerically characterized enough to allow for such a human quantitative approach to be adopted (especially with this articles chosen phenomenological “input-output” approach). This would have given some more resonance and relevance to the work. In particular, even if all CV-pressive, renal and hormonal processes proved to be the same between all these species, the possibility would remain that their relative contributions (and dynamics) to arterial pressure (dys-) regulations are different. As their objectives, the Authors aimed to: develop a "computer model capturing chronic adaptation of acute renal function in blood pressure control" as a more rigorous alternative to Guyton’s circulatory model ( Guyton et al., 1972 ) and to Guyton’s-derived approaches, particularly SAPHIR ( Thomas et al., 2008, - Hernandez et al., 2011 , could be cited too here, as well as Moss et al., 2012 ) thus "capturing the relevant mechanisms". These are very strong and ambitious objectives, and possibly ab initio flawed by the phenomenological (but otherwise legitimate) approach chosen. Further, that this is “a model capturing chronic adaptation of acute renal function in blood pressure” cannot be claimed with such a simple kidney function, for example: the pressure-natriuresis ignoring actions of the ANS (autonomic nervous system) upon renal hemodynamics and tubular function and the angiotensin action on glomerular and tubular function (for instance Glomerular Tubulo Balance and Na/water reabsorption). Kidney nerve afferents are also ignored. What is really addressed in this work are the interactions (possibly etiogenic) between the physiological (input/output) modules that are implemented. Finally, after more than a century of physiological and clinical research, the etiology of primary hypertension remains unresolved; although it is established that (numerous), genetic, environmental, age-related and adaptive factors do intervene. Moreover, when in the realm of age-related hypertension the Authors do select putative etiogenic processes (arterial stiffening, reduced BR receptors sensitivity) and explore potential interactions with RAS and kidney function (phenomenological pressure-natriuresis) in a simplified CV construct. Driven by the objective (age related HT/arterial stiffening), the proposed model features six central physiological functionalities, as modules (model components) implementing: MC1. “Aorta-large artery mechanics” MC2. “Kinetics of baroreflex afferent firing” MC3. “Mechanics of the heart and circulation” MC4. “Autonomic system” MC5. “Neuro humoral control of pressure diuresis/natriuresis” MC6. “Renin-angiotensin system” For each one of these model components (physiological organ/process), the Authors should give, where possible, at least one published “first-principle” (physiologically-based) model as a reference, e.g. amongst others (i) Moss and Thomas, 2013 for the kidney/pressure-natriuresis under hormonal influence, (ii) Guillaud and Hannaert, 2010 and/or Claassen et al. , 2013 for the RAS. The model is first validated (short-term) vs haemorrhage and then volume expansion. Of note, no real validation criterion is given (except for visual adequation through the figures). Secondly, the model is validated (long-term = days to weeks) using published steady-state pressure-natriuresis kidney function data. Although the Authors target long-term processes, 2 weeks (maximal simulated time here) is far too insufficient to refer to the CV, renal and central physiological mechanisms truly involved (months-to-years in dogs, years and decades in man). OTHER COMMENTS Is one of the input arrows missing in the model figure (fig 4)? A model diagram (rather than the electrical analog presented), as well as for the main hypothesis (vs alternative(s)) would be welcome. To what extent does this work differ from the previous work by the same group (cited, see Pettersen et al., 2013 )? The Matlab(C) model code and scripts proposed ( http://zenodo.org/record/7126#.UpOLNOJ21pg ) have been tested and verified by Dr F. Guillaud (ModTeam/Inserm U1082). The scripts could be run, the model could be simulated and results that were visually identical to those in the paper were obtained. 