An interesting manuscript focusing on a relationship between molecule similarity and biological activity, one of the most important (and still not fully solved) problems of applied cheminformatics. The topic is therefore relevant to drug design. The question the authors are trying to answer is the significance of similarity thresholds when using MACCS and ECFP4 fingerprints and its implications in virtual screening, when one tries to identify small number of active molecules in the large number of inactives. There have been several studies focusing on the same question (an influence of a similarity thresholds on discriminating active and inactive molecules). Although such studies are mentioned in the literature overview it would be interesting to directly compare their conclusions with the conclusions of the present paper in the “Implications for similarity searching” section. The information content of the MACCS keys and the ECFP fingerprints are vastly different. The MACCS keys are, to my knowledge, no more used in a productive set-up as molecule descriptors in discriminating between actives and inactives. It would be interesting to focus on additional, more relevant structure descriptors, for example Daylight-like linear fingerprints or topological torsions. I suggest this as a topic for a follow-up study. The authors should mention which software they used for the calculation of fingerprints. Did they used PipelinePilot, open source tools or their own software? Results generated by different software tools may differ in some cases considerably, based on different molecule normalization, treatment of aromaticity, tautomers etc.. I recommend to mention also a classical paper from this area by Brown and Martin 1 . References 1. Brown R, Martin Y: The Information Content of 2D and 3D Structural Descriptors Relevant to Ligand-Receptor Binding. Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences . 1997; 37 (1): 1-9 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Ertl P. Reviewer Report For: Activity-relevant similarity values for fingerprints and implications for similarity searching [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (Chem Inf Sci):591 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8986.r13265 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-591/v1#referee-response-13265 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 14 Apr 2016 Jrgen Bajorath , Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, Bonn, Germany 14 Apr 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Thank you for suggesting the follow-up investigation. We note that the results of the two most relevant investigations were discussed in the introduction. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Thank you for suggesting the follow-up investigation. We note that the results of the two most relevant investigations were discussed in the introduction. Thank you for suggesting the follow-up investigation. We note that the results of the two most relevant investigations were discussed in the introduction. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 14 Apr 2016 Jrgen Bajorath , Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität, Bonn, Germany 14 Apr 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Thank you for suggesting the follow-up investigation. We note that the results of the two most relevant investigations were discussed in the introduction. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Thank you for suggesting the follow-up investigation. We note that the results of the two most relevant investigations were discussed in the introduction. Thank you for suggesting the follow-up investigation. We note that the results of the two most relevant investigations were discussed in the introduction. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: McGaughey GB. Reviewer Report For: Activity-relevant similarity values for fingerprints and implications for similarity searching [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (Chem Inf Sci):591 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8986.r13263 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-591/v1#referee-response-13263 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 07 Apr 2016 Georgia B. McGaughey , Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Boston, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8986.r13263 The authors summarize in detail the threshold between actives and inactives using 2D fingerprints for the MACCS and ECFP4 fingerprint methods using data derived from ChEMBL. The paper is well written and should be indexed. A few suggestions are made, ... Continue reading READ ALL 