This article describes an interesting, transient interaction between flagella (cilia) of procyclic Trypanosomes, involving exchange of flagellar membrane and cytosolic molecules that can enter the flagellum, that can form quickly and last for some time, sometimes resulting in fusion of the two flagella. Experimental evidence for this phenomenon is shown by mixing populations of cells containing plasmids that produce different fluorescently labelled molecules (GFP and Ds RED) of interest. Originally a few yellow fluorescing cells were seen – indicative of interaction. The system was then refined for study by time lapse and electron microscopy. The data are well presented. The demonstration that molecules that cannot enter the flagellum are not transferred (Figure 4) is particularly nice. There is a suggestion that small RNAs could be transferred which might give the phenomenon added significance. The authors also suggest that this could be a new, more general, means of cell communication involving cilia. It is different from usual ciliary pairing well studied during mating reactions, for example in Tetrahymena or Euplotes. Mating of course eventually involves intercellular bridges in protozoa, so the sentence in the introduction that states that no intercellular bridges are known in protozoa is not correct. In broadening their discussion to mammalian and other cilia, the authors might note the work of Ott et al. (2012) (see also Jackson’s gloss) on MDCK and other cells, which also describes cilia pairing, possibly for communication, but without fusion. It would be useful to know how the cells here separate after flagellar fusion. The videos of the experiments are mostly useful in dynamically emphasizing the points made in the Figs, although some (i.e. Video 3) can be hard to follow. The previous reviewer commented on Video 2 where a cell ends up 4 nuclei – actually nuclei of both interacting cells divide (one begins with two nuclei) although the cells themselves do not. Could this be important? These few discussion points should add to the interest of this article. References 1. Ott C, Elia N, Jeong SY, Insinna C, et al.: Primary cilia utilize glycoprotein-dependent adhesion mechanisms to stabilize long-lasting cilia-cilia contacts. Cilia . 2012; 1 (1): 3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Jackson P: Cilia develop long-lasting contacts, with other cilia. Cilia . 2012; 1 (1). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Satir P. Reviewer Report For: Flagellar membrane fusion and protein exchange in trypanosomes; a new form of cell-cell communication? [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :682 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8871.r13625 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-682/v1#referee-response-13625 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Landfear SM. Reviewer Report For: Flagellar membrane fusion and protein exchange in trypanosomes; a new form of cell-cell communication? [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :682 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8871.r13386 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-682/v1#referee-response-13386 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 26 Apr 2016 Scott M. Landfear , Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Oregon Health and Sciences University, Portland, OR, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8871.r13386 This article by Imhof et al . describes the unanticipated and intriguing observation that flagella of procyclic form African trypanosomes are capable of fusing and exchanging both membrane bound and cytosolic proteins between the interacting cells. Flagellar fusion occurs in ~1% ... Continue reading READ ALL 