Sformo and Raymond have prepared aqueous extracts of a hardy coastal grass ( Leymus mollis ) collected in Alaska and have observed the presence of an ice-binding protein (IBP) based on ice crystal faceting and the inhibition of ice recrystallization. From another extract they prepared DNA and used primers based on conserved regions in other grass IBP transcripts to amplify the L. mollis gene, which fortunately lacks introns. From the sequence of this DNA they were able to provide the amino acid sequence of the IBP domain involved in ice recrystallization. They used this to model the three-dimensional structure of the domain, which looks very much like that of Lollium perenne . Another set of primers was used to amplify a diagnostic section of the 18S ribosomal RNA gene whose sequence identified the species. There is an element of comparative science here, and one would not need to see a repeat of this detailed analysis on other grasses/cereals. The presence of sequence homologs in transcriptomes as a way of seeing the distribution and variation of this IBP type should suffice from here on. Nevertheless, it is interesting to see this grass from a high latitude in Alaska (Beaufort Sea coast) extracted and analyzed. This report is also a good illustration of the use of molecular modeling to avoid solving a structure that would not differ much from the template. Indeed, the main features of the Lolium perenne IBP fold are retained in the L. mollis model, including the outward bulge of the beta-solenoid at one end on the non-ice-binding side. Suggestions for improvement: The Abstract should include the percent identity of the IRI domain between the two grass species. This type of information should also be provided in the Introduction where the sequences of the IBPs of L. perenne and D. antarctica are compared. It is not helpful to say their sequences “are very similar”. In the last paragraph of the Introduction the L. mollis IBP sequence is again said to be “very similar” to those of the other two grasses. Please provide % identity and % similarity. Figure 1A shows ice structuring. However, since panel B also shows ice crystals it is important to point out to the average reader that the distinction lies in the faceting seen in A where flat, angular surfaces are the result of IBP binding to ice. The ice in B is smoother and rounded. Figure 2 is a rather poor presentation of ice recrystallization. One must look closely at the ice control images to see the grains are larger after 21 h. The methods say the ice recrystallization was done in water. From our experience the inclusion of 150 mM NaCl makes a huge difference to the visibility of the ice grains. The other suggestion is to take the starting picture at zero time with the ice held colder than – 3 C. We see substantial recrystallization happening in the first hour, even at -6 C, and will typically hold the ice wafer at -10 C until the starting picture is captured, and then raise the temperature for more rapid recrystallization. I recommend that this analysis be repeated and improved. In Methods, under ‘Structure prediction’, it is stated that three structures were proposed by SWISS MODEL operating with L. perenne IBP as a template. Then, the one with the ‘highest sequence identity’ was selected. Surely the sequence identity is the same for all models because they are based on the same template. We would typically compare models by root mean square deviation (RMSD) – how the atoms deviate from the model on average. Is this what is meant here? Although the sequence of the L. mollis open reading frame was incomplete, it would be useful to report the sequence upstream of the ice-binding domain. Presumably this is a series of leucine-rich repeats similar to those seen in other grass IBPs? In reference to ice crystal axes the a- and c- should be italicized. Replace the contraction "didn’t" with "did not". 