The authors performed a retrospective analysis of FEV1% predicted data over 3 years in an adult CF center in the UK. They examined FEV1 decline from year to year by calculating variation in best FEV1 during two consecutive years and examined the impact of using data obtained using Knudson equation (directly extracted from the spirometer or recalculated with the appropriate height) vs. GLI equation. They also performed an adjustment using ESCF data. The authors concluded that trends in FEV1 decline were robust among methods, although the results were somewhat different using different methods/equations. The study has some interest in highlighting problems associated with these type of calculations, especially when used for benchmarking (as in the UK). I have the following comments for improvement: An important drawback of Knusdon equation is related to the change of FEV1 in the transition from pediactric to adults. This is why the GLI is nowadays often used in mixed pediatric/adult population. The authors used the UK definition of adults (over 16 years) and suggested that some of the difference in their results between Knudson and GLI data are due to the younger patients in this cohorts. I would be happier if the authors could perform a sensitivity analysis using only patients 18 years an over? This would miniminze the Knusdon/GLI age bias and would make these results more relevant to the adult centres outside of UK. Looking at Table 1, it seems that only a minority of patients were below 18 years. I think the word FEV1 decline is inappropriate in this manuscript. A year to year variation (even over 3 years) is not a decline. For calculating a decline, you would need multiple data points (at the very least 3 data points) and perform more complicated analyses (e.g., mixed model analysis). I would suggest to remove the word decline from the manuscript as the main goal of the authors did not appear to be FEV1 decline but mostly year to year FEV1 variation which is used for benchmarking in the UK. 