The authors provide a pilot study into the consumption of traditional alcoholic beverages in rural Peru. The article is interesting and novel as there is clearly a lack of data on unrecorded alcohol from South America. It is also quite disturbing to read that considerable alcohol exposure may occur in children. The following revisions should be considered: For the international reader the beverages Chicha de Jora and Clarito are almost unknown. Can some information about these beverages be provided as background? For example, are they similar to maize beers? What is the typical alcoholic strength of these beverages? Are they commercially and legally sold by some kind of artisanal small-scale industry, or are they illegally sold? Should they be considered as falling into the WHO category of “unrecorded alcohol” (see Rehm et al. 1 for definition). The conclusion states that the products are providing “great danger” to health. While this may be true, there is not much in the data that would allow for such a conclusion. The study appears to be non-quantitative in nature and the alcoholic strength of the product appears to be unknown. Hence no calculation of daily alcohol exposure can be made, which would allow for a quantitative risk assessment (such as by using the margin of exposure approach 2 ). With the currently available data I would suggest to conclude that there may be a health hazard, but quantitative intake assessment as well as chemical characterization of the beverages would be necessary for risk assessment. The introduction of the abstract is written in a rather vague fashion. “... traditional drinks that may have alcohol content”. Are Ch and Cl without alcohol available? This should be clarified. Introduction, last paragraph. The reference 9 mentions “Chicora de Jora”. Is this the same as “Chicha de Jora”? Reference 10 mentions “girl from Jora”? Are these translation mistakes? Are there any more reliable peer-reviewed references with background on the beverages than some theses? Can a link to the source of reference 10 be provided? Methods, characteristics of drinking habits in liquids/beverages: what beverage is “gas”? Clarify that Chicha morada is non alcoholic. Table 3: check values for line “dangerous”. Is this logical that both are “0”? Discussion, first sentence: Please provide percentages to make the values more easy to compare with the data from Brazil and Colombia. Page 6, first line: please clarify where the consumption has risen (in Peru?) Page 6, 4 th line: “low cost of production”. Please provide some comparison for the low cost. Are the alcoholic beverages cheaper than non-alcoholic alternatives such as milk or fruit juices? Page 6, 1 st paragraph, last line “no studies about consumption of alcohol and drugs by children”. I wonder about this request and why this is seen as unfortunate. I would find it highly unethical to study alcohol and drug consumption in children, and I can predict that we will never see such a study. This sentence should be deleted. Discussion, last paragraph: please include the non-quantitative nature as limitation. Considering your comment that “the consumption of these traditional alcoholic beverages” is seen as “normal”, is there at least some information how much of the beverages is consumed by the children? Conclusions: “it is concluded that children consume a large quantity of traditional alcoholic beverages”. This conclusion appears to be not founded in the data. No quantitative measurements were conducted. 