I am happy to state that the authors thoroughly addressed most of my concerns regarding the previous version of the manuscript. However, I still have a few minor comments, which the authors might consider, as listed in the following. In the introduction, the authors state that Chip-seq has improved "resolution to single-nucleotide level", whereas at the beginning of the Results section, they state that "a successful ChIP-seq experiment localizes binding within about 100bp of the true site", which still is quite accurate but not exactly single-nucleotide accuracy. Please clarify. In section "Background", sub-section "Motif comparison", the authors list as possible measures of motif divergence "sum of square deviation, Euclidean distance". As the former is just the square of the latter, I would suggest to give another example (for instance, correlation-based meaures) in the introduction of that sub-section. In section "Methods", sub-section "Data", the authors now describe the selection of negative sequences, which were "extracted 500bp downstream from the highest coordinate". a) However, as ChIP-seq peaks lack an orientation, I wonder which direction "downstream" refers to. Does this mean that the authors considered the forward strand of the available genomic sequence, or do they also take, e.g., the orientation of closely located genes into account? b) In the response, the authors explain that "our focus was to get negative sequences [...] which maintains the nucleotide composition". As I mentioned in my previous review, sequences located 500bp downstream of a transcription factor binding site might already be located in coding sequence, which affects nucleotide composition. Could the authors please comment on this issue? In section "Methods", sub-section "Data", the authors explain that they "only found nine TFs that had comparable data in ChIP-seq and PWM". However, there are additional, similar data sets for at least Foxo1, Zfx, Tbx5, and Nr5a2 available (see Grau et al ., 2013 for details). Please clarify. In equation 1, parentheses might help to spot the argument of the product. In equation 4, the parameter μ is not explained. In Figure 3, the authors discuss the influence of sequence length on AUC. However, I would consider the influence of sequence length on the ranking of motifs more relevant for the topic of the manuscript. In section "Results", sub-section "Effect of PBM data on motif assessment", 5th item of the list, the authors state that "PBM data are generated in 8-mers". As far as I know, PBMs are typically designed such that they cover all 10-mers (see, e.g., http://the_brain.bwh.harvard.edu/pbm.html ). In addition, the authors might clarify which data they used for the assessment (the probe sequences and intensities, I assume?). References 1. Grau J, Posch S, Grosse I, Keilwagen J: A general approach for discriminative de novo motif discovery from high-throughput data. Nucleic Acids Res . 2013; 41 (21): e197 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Grau J. Reviewer Report For: Transcription factor motif quality assessment requires systematic comparative analysis [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 (ISCB Comm J):1429 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8713.r12883 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1429/v2#referee-response-12883 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 11 Dec 2015 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Grau J. Reviewer Report For: Transcription factor motif quality assessment requires systematic comparative analysis [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 (ISCB Comm J):1429 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7983.r11721 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1429/v1#referee-response-11721 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 15 Jan 2016 Jan Grau , Institute of Computer Science, Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, Germany Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7983.r11721 The manuscript "Transcription factor motif quality assessment requires systematic comparative analysis" by Kibet and Machanick addresses the assessment of transcription factor binding motifs. This question is especially important for selecting appropriate motifs for computational predictions given the large number of ... Continue reading READ ALL 