This article describes a post-hoc analysis of nine hackathons organised by NESCent between 2006 and 2015 to work on the development of software tools for evolutionary biology. Although it’s presented as a research article, the main value of this article is the “Lessons Learned” section, which, in addition to the “Concise Guide” available on Github, serves as useful guidelines for anyone planning to organise hackathon-style events for academics. I particularly like the detailed description of the authors’ approach to ensure participant engagement and to increase attendance by underrepresented groups, as this is something many event organisers can benefit from. The authors address the shortcomings of the study by pointing out that an objective systematic analysis of these nine events (which they organised themselves over a period of several years) was not possible. However, thanks to its detailed descriptions and evaluations, this article and the accompanying guidelines may help others perform a more systematic analysis of future hackathons. My only comments (below) are suggestions to make the text easier to read. In particular, the Introduction could be more informative to readers who are new to hackathons, by including some information that in the present version is mentioned much later in the article: Who was the intended audience for the NESCent hackathons? The introduction mentions “developers and end-users”, but it is not until Lesson 4 that the reader finds out they were “a mix of faculty, postdocs, students and research staff”. Considering the academic audience of the article, this might be useful to mention earlier. Another point to potentially address in the article is the differences between a hackathon and any other type of scientific workshop. For example, the participant-driven nature of hackathons (first mentioned in Lesson 6) is key to understanding the concept of the event. If this is something that needs to be explained to new hackathon participants, perhaps it also needs to be explained to new readers. Suggested minor cosmetic changes: Some in-text citations in the introduction are not linked to their respective references. There are three of these close together, starting with “The event may last a single day (e.g. 12)….” There is a typo in reference 6: First author should be “McArthur”, not “McArthu” It takes some effort to find the sample advertisements mentioned in the “recruiting participants” section. This could be improved with a direct link to the corresponding files. 