The authors have slightly improved the manuscript by removing some questionable supplementary figures and some modifications in the text. The science presented is still quite poor and it does not really answer any biological question (at least I could not find such a question in the manuscript). This is a report about the sequence of the a-subunit. The presented alignments with other species are incomplete and do not explain the criteria used to state what is considered as conserved. Some specific points: - Abstract: The authors write that (more than 1) alkaliphile was reported in this work but the work actually reports just about 1 species, i.e. Stenotrophomonas sp. DL18 (?) - Intro: Reference 1 is from 1992 and outdated as a review - Figure 1: The alignment does not show the complete a-subunit and the discussion includes residues, which are not shown here, e.g. Gly120 - In general the language could be improved. There are examples throughout the text. It should be read and edited by a native speaker. - The authors use the expression "F o subunit". The F o is a subunit complex, consisting of several proteins. The expression is misleading to say the least. - Fig. 1, legend: It is not clear how TMH-4 and TMH-5 is defined. This should also be referenced in the main text (page 3). What is the criterium to say that some residues are conserved, while others are not? This should be defined in the text too. - Fig. 2, legend: "The most conserved amino acid reside...": improve language and give criterium for conservation. - The text on page 4 jumps back and forth in the topic: from Lys180 to His262, then back to Lys180 (and now also Gly120) for three lines, then five lines about Gly218 and Glu219, then back again to Lys180 (with reference to McMillan et al .).... This is very confusing and cannot be understood. - Finally what is the reason for the authors stating that DL18 is an alkaliphile despite the fact that this a-subunit does not have Lys180 ()? I just could not follow the arguments any more and got lost. - A conclusion sentence at the end perhaps helps. Being fully aware of how tight the funding situation of the authors might be, I have to stay with my conclusion that the scientific content of this work is not enough to be published in F1000Research . As long as no new experimental data is supplementing this work and no biological question is addressed, I do not see this work as suitable for this journal. In the current form, the authors should consider to deposit the sequence in the sequence database with a remark that it contains some (but not all) alkaliphilic motifs in the a-subunit sequence of the ATP synthase.