This paper takes an interesting approach to determining survey effort by focusing on the probability of detecting a population that will persist into the future. Rather than setting survey effort based on current occupancy, it assumes the population is present and projects persistence (as a function of current abundance) into the future. The probabilities of extinction and failed detection both decline with abundance, so the probability of failing to detect a viable population is greatest for an intermediate abundance. The authors take the approach of setting survey effort such that the probability of failing to detect a viable population is at least smaller than a particular threshold. Because population size is unknown, the authors find the population size where the required search effort to meet the target detection probability is largest. Then for all other population sizes the target detection probability will be achieved. The authors present this result as an approximation to an integral over the uncertainty in abundance. However, the quality of this approximation is not demonstrated and seems unnecessary. Depending on the distribution that might represent uncertainty in population size, the approximation might be very poor. However, the need to frame the solution as an approximation to an integral is unnecessary if instead it is framed in terms of Walds maximin approach (which is what I did above). The paper contains some minor errors of expression and fact, it seems to overlook some key literature, and discussion about the suitability of the chosen objective could be more nuanced. I have documented these in a PDF, which can be found here . A transcript is also available below, with bold text added for emphasis. None of these minor issues invalidate the substantive findings of the paper. Transcript of PDF: Introduction, 1 st paragraph: Clearly, incorporating nondetection probability, through its inverse , detection probability... It is not the inverse I think you mean the complement. means something else mathematically. Introduction, 3 rd paragraph: First, the effort required to detect a small population increases at an accelerating pace as population size dwindles . If claiming this is under-appreciated, it probably pays to at least cite some of the literature that acknowledges this occurs, such as Rout et al., 2014. The references cited in McCarthy et al. (2013) also have empirical evidence of detection probability declining with abundance. Introduction, 4 th paragraph: Given limited resources, it generally will not make sense to dedicate a lot of resources to ensure a high probability of detecting.... It seems worth citing some of the literature on allocation of limited resources to surveillance. The following search on Google Scholar pulls up various papers: Allocate limited resources to surveillance ecology. Introduction, 4 th paragraph: Given limited resources, it generally will not make sense to dedicate a lot of resources to ensure a high probability of detecting.... The term is vague. Do you mean (i.e. as in a general theory), or , which is perhaps the more colloquial use. It would be better to be more specific about when this objective of finding viable populations is preferred to other possibilities. I could see this objective being useful for invasive species. But for endangered species, we might sometimes be more interested in detecting non-viable populations (so they can receive conservation actions) than viable populations. Introduction, 4 th paragraph : In other words, it is inefficient to spend limited resources to detect a species... This is a claim, that may well be true under particular (and perhaps quite common) circumstances but those circumstances are not described, and the case is not formally established. Introduction, 4 th paragraph: It would generally be even more efficient... That problematic word again. Introduction, 4 th paragraph: ...the gain in efficiency would not be as large as... This will all come down to the specific objective and how is assessed. Introduction, 5 th paragraph: Ideally a survey design avoids two sources of inefficiency: failing to detect a population that persists into the near future and detecting a population that fails to persist into the near future. As per previous comments, this depends on the implied objective being reasonable. The scope of this objective needs to be framed more clearly. Analytical framework, 2 nd paragraph: If all individuals within the surveyed population have the same chance of being detected, trap efficiency will be related to population size as E=1-(1-e) N , where e is the probability that a particular individual is detected and N is the number of individuals in the survey area. This statement is not correct. The derivation of this in ref. 7 is actually based on assumptions of both independence and equal detection probability. However, the modelled relationship between detection probability and population size that is used here only depends on the assumption of independence (not equality as claimed here). Details are in McCarthy et al. (2013). Analytical framework, 2 nd paragraph: The nonlinear relationship between T and N as N approaches zero... The relationship is non-linear everywhere, not just near zero. I think you mean something else apart from . Analytical framework, 3 rd paragraph: Here we assume that there is some relationship between near-term population viability and the current populations size Z(N) ... As used in the equations, Z(N) is the probability of local extinction within some relevant time horizon as a function of N, yet here it is defined vaguely, and seems to be (the complement of extinction). It should be defined more carefully. Analytical framework, 4 th paragraph: The exact probability is equal to the integral of the product of P(N) and the probability that the population surveyed as N individuals over all possible values of N This approach to dealing with uncertainty in N is actually a Walds maximin approach. You havent shown how well the maximum of P(N) approximates the integral. I think this would be better framed in terms of ignorance about N, so you take a maximin approach to this ignorance when finding a solution. Analytical framework, 4 th paragraph: Approximating this interval at the maximum value of P(N) results in an estimate of P(N) that is biased high, which for most applications of this analysis will be a conservative bias. Which interval? You have not previously mentioned any intervals as far as I can tell. Do you mean integral? If so, the wording is not correct. Analytical framework, 4 th paragraph: Approximating this interval at the maximum value of P(N) results in an estimate of P(N) that is biased high, which for most applications of this analysis will be a conservative bias. Strictly, this is not an estimate of P(N). Analytical framework, 4 th paragraph: Approximating this interval at the maximum value of P(N) results in an estimate of P(N) that is biased high, which for most applications of this analysis will be a conservative bias Conservative in what sense? Analytical framework, 4 th paragraph: Approximating this interval at the maximum value of P(N) results in an estimate of P(N) that is biased high, which for most applications of this analysis will be a conservative bias . This sentence needs a lot of work. What I think is meant is: Rarely if ever will N be known. Instead, if decisions about setting survey effort are based on assuming a value of N for which the required search effort is maximized, we get a reasonable result. What means is unclear to me. is even more vague. If framed in terms of Walds maximin, then I think the result will be much clearer. By assuming the worst possible value of N such that the required search effort is maximized, then the calculated value of T will be sufficient to achieve the required value of P(N) for all values of N. Analytical framework, 5 th paragraph: Because most power analyses calculate the probability of success... Most power analyses calculate the probability of rejecting a false null hypothesis, and have nothing to do with surveillance. Analytical framework, 5 th paragraph: Because most power analyses calculate the probability of success (e.g., that a study will show a significant difference given that observed groups do differ), it is tempting to estimate survey power as 1-P(N). We caution against doing so because this quantity is difficult to interpret... This seems like a distraction. Survey protocols have typically aimed to achieve a particular probability of detection, achieve a particular posterior probability of presence given non-detection (e.g. Wintle et al. Divs and Distributions ), or tried to minimize overall monitoring and management costs. I think setting up this hypothetical scenario that no-one has proposed (as far as I am aware) is unnecessary. Analytical framework, 6 th paragraph: To determine the optimal trap effort... Optimal implies something is being minimized or maximised. You are really finding the smallest amount of survey effort that is required to reach some target for all possible population sizes. I think the word is not correct. Analytical framework, 6 th paragraph: If Z(N) is a differentiable function, T max can be calculated analytically . I guess it depends on what is meant by , but Im not sure that having Z(N) differentiable is not sufficient to get an explicit expression for T max (the resulting expression also needs to be solvable in terms of N I think). Application to Sierra Nevada wolverines, 5 th paragraph: The average distance covered by a dispersing wolverine is 51km, so we divided the population size by 8171 km 2 to calculate the corresponding density. I dont know how a dispersal distance of 51 km leads to this area measurement. Application to Sierra Nevada wolverines, 5 th paragraph: The average distance covered by a dispersing wolverine is 51 km, so we divided the population size by 8171 km 2 to calculate the corresponding density. How sensitive are the results to this assumed area? Discussion, 1 st paragraph: First, explicitly acknowledging that extremely small populations are very difficult to detect but unlikely to persist facilitates efficient survey designs with enough power to detect species which need to be managed without wasting effort on effectively extinct populations . This depends on context. I agree that in some contexts, managers might not want to manage a small population that might be doomed to extinction. In other cases, managers might actually want to find these populations so that they can be managed. If a population can persist by itself, do we need to detect it? The context might vary depending on whether the possible population is the last remaining, or whether other populations exist. I think the formulation in this paper is much better suited, in general, to eradication in this case we dont need to find populations that are not self-sustaining. Discussion, 2 nd paragraph: Choosing a target population density based on the effects of small populations on both detection and persistence probabilities was critical to design of an efficient survey . This is a truism based on how the problem was framed. Discussion, 3 rd paragraph: We see this as a useful uncertainty when making management decisions. The meaning of this is unclear. What is the uncertainty? Figure 2: Preliminary and post-hoc power analysis for wolverine survey. Is this the correct term? Power is usually used for null hypothesis significance testing (NHST). Im not sure this is strictly NHST. Figure 2: The apparent dip of the second point from the left reflects a dramatic decrease in population viability but not detection probability for a population of three compared to one of four individuals. Typo? one of four is unclear.