This well-controlled study from Watson and colleagues manages to avoid many of the cliches used in reporting kinase inhibitor studies ('potent and selective', 'highly specific'), and will be useful for those in the field interested in on and off-targets of clinical, probe and intermediate compounds, especially with relevance to RET, which is fast becoming an interesting drug target. The introduction is very clear, up-to-date with clinical and preclinical information, and leads into the new study efficiently. Minor points: One sentence mentioning or placing in context the M918T (P+1 loop) and V804M (gatekeeper) cancer-associated RET mutants would be useful for readers, since one is employed here. Is Km[ATP] the same for M918T RET, given that it autophosphorylates much more efficiently in vitro (Plaza-Menacho et al., Mol Cell 53:738?). Is Km literature, or measured in-house? EGFR = Epithelial Growth Factor Receptor, not endothelial. What is the evidence that RET inhibition by bandetanib and cabozantinib is actually 'secondary pharmacology' in terms of in vivo efficacy? This statement might be tempered. Cell POM: The POM assumes that the conversion of RET to pRET and KDR to pKDR in cells occurs inter/intramolecularly autophosphorylation (ie by the same protein kinase). Is this known, or surmised (reference would be useful). Please add a citation for the MZ-CRC-1 cell line Please add a citation, or Figure, demonstrating that HEK-293 cells do not express RET, since this is important for its use as control. What else is different between HEK-293 and MZ-CRC-1 though? Is this known? Table 1 Challenging to distinguish between red and orange, how about another colour? Which cell line is this data from? Supplementary Figure 2. Although ganetespib (HSP90i) destabilising effects provides a clear positive control, cabozantinib or sorafentib (sub micromolar RET inhibitors) also destabilise RET (and abolish autophosphorylation). But is this also true for the most potent in vitro inhibitors Ponatinib, Lenvatinib, PD16860/16964, since definition of the IC 50 value must require measurement of the measured RET total vs. pRET ratio? Elimination of RET, in addition to inhibition of activity might be a nice dual-approach here, and might influence selection of candidates? 