 Review: This paper explains about the usage of Metallothionein (MT) expression as a specific biomarker for the presence of cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), and lead (Pb) in the tissues (gills and stomach) of oysters ( Crassostrea cuculata and Crassostrea glomerata ) and the coastal waters of the South coast of East Java. This study has used the appropriate methodologies to measure several parameters. The heavy metals (Pb, Cd, and Hg) are measured using atomic absorption spectrophotometry (AAS). Heavy metals in the water samples are directly measured by using AAS, while that in the gill tissue and stomach are extracted (using nitric acid and incubated at 5-8 o C for 30 minutes) before the measurement. The expression of MT is observed by using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). The authors also mentioned the detailed measurement of water quality for supporting the data of this study. The result of this study showed that the heavy metal content in the water is generally past the specific quality standard (based on the Decree of the State Minister of Environment No. 51 of 2004 concerning seawater quality standards for heavy metal content) (Jelaskan kenapa bisa tinggi). The analysis of MT expression on both gill tissue and stomach showed the highest value in the Prigi station. This study also showed a strong relationship between heavy metals (Pb, Cd, and Hg) with gill tissue and stomach in both Crassostrea cuculata and Crassostrea glomerata. Comments: This study is interesting, but some points need to be considered. It would be better for the authors to mention some previous study about the using of MT expression as biomarker in the marine species. This study is also interesting because it was carried out in the south coastal area of Java Sea. There is industrial activity located in this area. It would be nice if the authors could mention the importance of doing this study in that area. The highest heavy metal content in the gill tissue and stomach of oysters is observed in the Prigi and Sendang Biru stations. The author has compared the heavy metal content in the oyster with Mytilus and Thylacodes. It would be better if there is another comparative result on the oyster. 