In this manuscript, the authors discussed the concept of inter-individual differences in response to treatment interventions, particularly those focussed on psychological-related outcomes. The consideration of inter-individual responses is an important issue and the authors provide further insights previously not considered in detail within the domain of psychology. The topic is generally discussed accurately in the context of the current literature, statements are generally correct and supported by relevant citations. I have thoroughly read and considered the manuscript, which was interesting in content and constructed with a logical flow. I have only minor comments for the authors’ consideration. The article focuses on the prediction of response heterogeneity, especially prediction of responders/non-responders. Have you considered the roadmap that has been suggested 1 to actually confirm whether the general amount of true heterogeneity is clinically important or not BEFORE we might explore for predictors of that heterogeneity? Page 3, Right hand Column, Lines 27 onwards– whilst discussing RCT trial design and highlighting that responders/non-responders cannot be identified through the analysis of intervention sample data alone, perhaps it might be appropriate to address any research making similar claims even in the total absence of any control sample data. Page 4, Left hand column, Line 8 and conclusion. The arguments that you make on this point, particularly in the conclusion are, at present, unsupported by scientific literature and require justification. You allude to the fact that a lack of ‘true’ counterfactual information makes an RCT in effect a single-arm (no control study). It is agreed that one cannot say with 100% certainty whether the intervention group as a whole or any specific individual in the intervention group is a positive responder, as what would have happened to that person if they had been in the control group is of course unknown. This is the fundamental counterfactual basis of the RCT. Nevertheless, as the control group variability over the same time period as the intervention effectively provides our best guess of the counterfactual (what would have happened to individuals in the intervention group if they had been in the control arm), I feel that this applies to changes at both the group mean and the individual level, and that disregarding RCTs as ‘single-arm studies’ is unsupported. According to the previously-mentioned “roadmap” that has been presented, the analysis of the control group changes (specifically the comparison of change variance between treatment and control) can provide information as to what the general clinical importance is of “true” individual response heterogeneity. By “true”, one knows from this comparison whether the overall amount of heterogeneity in changes surpasses the overall amount of random within-subject heterogeneity of changes in the control group. If heterogeneity of change is similar between treatment and control, it could be argued that moving on to attempts to predict treatment response variability is a somewhat meaningless exercise. Page 4, Left hand column, Lines 43 – 54. Whilst discussing regression to the mean and the mathematical coupling of pre- to post change scores, the use of covariates (especially baseline values of the study outcome) in the statistical model (ANCOVA) could be suggested as a potential solution to this – a notable absence in many studies’ data analyses. Pages 4 – 5. You make a number of pertinent suggestions for potential solutions to the problem, and briefly allude to the methods recently suggested (1,3) . We have suggested how this might be approached in RCTs and tied to an appropriate anchor usually a minimal clinically important difference or smallest worthwhile change (1,2) . Addressing these issues may assist the reader in applying this methodology in their applied practice and/or research environments. 