As someone who has experience with R/Bioconductor and with genomics data, but not direct experience analyzing methylation array data, I found the workflow very useful and I would suggest it to anyone wanting to start analyzing this type of data. I do agree with the other reviewers that the value of the workflow will be greatly increased if the dataset used was available as an R object. The authors should consider submitting an experiment data package to Bioconductor to accompany the workflow. Alternatively, they could provide the dataset as a supplementary file. As for the analysis itself, I only have one major question. Note that I do not have direct experience analyzing methylation array, so this is a genuine question rather than a criticism. In gene expression analysis, we tend to perform filtering prior to normalization, while the authors here first normalize the data by quantile normalization and then filter out probes that are low quality and/or affected by SNPs. Wouldn't it be safer to perform filtering before normalization? I understand that given the few probes affected, the order has likely very little effect in this dataset. But I naively imagine that if there are many problematic probes and, say, the quality of the samples is confounded with the biology, there could be issues in using low quality probes for normalization. Other minor points: I agree that the code should be re-run with the latest release of R and Bioconductor. In the definition of \beta, \alpha should be defined, and its default value in getBeta() should be specified. Spelling: most of the article uses British English spelling, but the word "normalization" is sometimes (but not always) spelled in American English. A sentence describing what is the procedure implemented in preprocessQuantile() is needed for people not familiar with normalization. I agree that it would be useful to provide a brief description of what is a contrasts matrix as this section could be confusing for people unfamiliar with statistical models. For the same reason, the authors should add a brief explanation of the problem of multiple testing and what is the false discovery rate. Or at least provide references to the appropriate literature. 