A useful contribution to strategies aimed at helping life sciences undergraduates appreciate the importance of quantitative skills, develop their own quantitative skills and (hopefully) become less anxious about mathematics and statistics within the first few weeks of their transition onto a higher education programme. Introduction 2 nd paragraph: Suggest changing to in ecology can be better learned/developed if they are taught in a subject context Also .. and few have the confidence to apply 3 rd paragraph: A simple diagram might help readers understand Bayesian belief networks in an ecological context. 4 th paragraph: .. the aim of this study was to determine .. seen as an extra, and unnecessary complexity .. we combined a field visit to a rocky shore with an afternoon using . Methods 1 st paragraph: The students were based in a college normally specialising in further education (pre-18 years old), but offering some higher education courses. Predictive model/Belief network: requires more clarification for non-specialists. It might also help if the three individual worksheets in Supplementary File 2 were numbered (and referred to by these numbers in the text) and each worksheet contained more explanation so that the reader wasnt trying to move back and forth between the manuscript and the Excel worksheets. Also in sentence 3 should be . Marine management scenario: 4 th sentence Students were asked to complete should be . Student evaluation of learning: the rubric in the questionnaire should have been presented only once at the beginning its repetition before each question is tedious (to say the least) to students and readers of this article alike. Results Figure 1: the horizontal axis needs to be labelled as The two references in the text to tropic cascade should be trophic cascade The authors state that Student evaluations showed that students felt they had learned significant amounts about each topic , students (working in pairs) all produced sensible interaction links in the model, and [they produced] working belief network simulations which accurately predicted real results from previously conducted experiments, but did the authors use any other means to assess each individual students quantitative skills (e.g. their understanding of probability) and knowledge of rocky shore ecology (e.g. species interactions, marine management)? the students, particularly when working in pairs, may have over-estimated the extent of their learning, in which case their self-evaluation of their knowledge and competence may not have matched their actual knowledge and competence? The authors may have needed to do more than [quantify] the success of the technique . through examining the solutions [the pairs of students] provided to problems requiring the use of predictive networks. (final sentence of the Introduction). Discussion 2 nd paragraph, final sentence: However, embedding more quantitative elements regularly in courses to enhance The discussion would benefit from the authors addressing the points raised by Vivien Sieber.