For this manuscript, the authors start by reviewing how Euclidean distance matrices (EDM) can be used to represent protein structures, highlighting the various pros of the approach. As an example, they highlight how EDM can be easily used to express and model circular permutations. Finally, they provide opensource R code. Concerns/Questions: One reason why structural modelers avoid working with EDMs directly is due to Chirality. Traditionally, one would work with coordinates directly, and use EDMs to calculate pairwise decomposable energies. Though the authors mention that chirality can be easily resolved after reconstruction (assuming the entire structure is of the same chirality), they do not go into detail of how chirality is handled during matrix-completion. It seems without explicit term to promote the same chirality through the entire structure, matrix-completion followed by MDS could return a structure that alternates between different chiralities. Maybe due to the shortness of the loops modeled this is not an issue? One way to check would be to compute the backbone dihedrals. For example, we'd expect the most of the phi dihedral between atoms c-n-ca-c to be negative... if the new modeled loop is positive, this could indicate a problem. In conclusion, the authors write: "Modelling protein structures using EDMs is far behind state-of-the-art techniques based on atomic energies and simulations, and therefore has its own limitations." Given distances (aka EDMs) are used to represent pairwise decomposable terms in state-of-the-art techniques... it doesn't seem it would be that difficult to incorporate these energies in a technique that optimizes distance matrix values as opposed to coordinate values. Some energy terms that use distances include Lennard-Jones van der Waals, Coulomb electrostatics. Even angles and dihedrals could potentially be approximated as distances between i,i+2 and i,i+3. See Rosetta Energy function for reference: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jctc.7b00125 For modeling circular permutations, it seems one could just modify cartesian coordinates directly. Circular permutations would be as easy moving xyz entries from beginning to end of the list. It's not clear what advantage EDM provides, besides enabling the use of some of the matrix-completion algorithms for determining the best atom placements. What are the specific advantages over simply minimizing/placing coordinates directly? 