Thanks for the opportunity to review this high-quality manuscript. Peer review can be a chore, but this was a pleasure to read. I will state that my training is in statistics and research methodology. Although much of my work is in the field of fertility, I have no clinical expertise and no familiarity with the literature discussed in this review. Any comments I make are from the point of view of the statistician and, with respect to the subject-matter, the layperson. I am unable to comment on whether or not the body of evidence discussed in the review is comprehensive. However, the critical appraisal of these studies is conducted to a high standard, with a strong command of quantitative research methods on display. I can’t fault it. The reader is left in no doubt as to the considerable limitations (many of which appear to be fatal) of these studies. All data used in the manuscript have been made available for the purposes of reproducing the analysis. I was slightly confused by the description of the simulation study as a two-stage procedure in the critique of Roberts Lowe. If I understand correctly, sets of simulated values for five quantities were drawn from Normal distributions centred around the estimates used by Roberts Lowe, with standard deviations equal to these values multiplied by 0.2. Each time a new set of these five quantities was drawn, the values were used to calculate (predict) a value for embryo loss. This was done 100,000 times. However, the author speaks of 1,000 simulations, each containing 10,000 separate estimates. It is unclear what exactly varied within and between the 1000 simulations. If the data generating model was the same for all of these (ie: this was just done for computational reasons), then it would be helpful if the author could make this clear in the text. The author assumed that the simulated quantities were independent in the simulation – I confess to having no real intuition as to the implications of this assumption. However, I don’t believe this would affect the author’s conclusion. One minor typo; ‘this is far from being a robust pregnancy diagnosis and in different study [46]…’ I believe that it would be appropriate to accept this manuscript without revision, although the author may wish to clarify the point about the first simulation described above.