Thank you to the authors for developing this paper. I have some further comments. The primary issue now is the speculation in the title. The title seeks to extrapolate the obtained data on two compounds to suggest that it is applicable to all DPP-IV inhibitors. That is, the speculation of this paper is that the presented data is relevant to an entire drug class. The comments and the title should be restricted to one or two of the compounds that were studied in this paper. Moreover, K-579 is not a diabetes drug. In this context, the title needs changing to avoid ambiguity. I suggest: The dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor vildagliptin used in type 2 diabetes inhibits a phospholipase C: a case of promiscuous scaffolds in proteins. or The dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors vildagliptin and K-579 inhibit a phospholipase C: a case of promiscuous scaffolds in proteins. This study complements the much broader work using focused, direct technology for measuring and detecting off-target inhibition. That paper is published in Nature Chemical Biology in 2014 ( Bachovchin et al. 2014 ). That study similarly showed that vildagliptin inhibits enzymes other than DPP-IV. That study showed that DPP4 inhibitors differ, such that sitagliptin does not inhibit other enzymes. The authors need to comment and restrict their conclusions to the compounds that they studied rather than imply that DPP-IV inhibiting compounds that they did not study, such as sitagliptin, have similar characteristics to the compounds that they did study. The data of this study is biochemical yet 16 of the cited references concern the safety of DPP-IV inhibition. The manuscript now carefully does not draw a link to drug safety; the title needs to do the same. As the paper is focused upon DPP-IV structure and function, more papers on this topic could be cited and linked with the data. For example, the authors amendment mentions contacts in DPP-IV at Glu205, Glu206 and Tyr662. The authors could state that Glu205 and Glu206 have been shown to be essential for catalysis by DPP-IV and cite the paper Abbott et al. (1999) . 