The study of Juntarawijit describes adverse health effects among employees working in four common types of restaurants in Thailand. Main results are that employees of ‘tamsang’ restaurants are more affected by cooking smoke than those working in papaya salad restaurants. This is a nice study which suffers from some methodological errors. Main points The selection method was poorly described. Did all invited participants agree to participate? Part of the participants was no cook. What was their function? Were they also exposed to cooking smoke? What proportion of the participants were allergic? E.g. mites or pollen? Why were for example waiters (not exposed to cooking smoke not used as comparison group? The group ‘Other job’ (Table 1) should be deleted from data analysis, because they are ill characterized and group size is too small. Minor points Abstract: Please describe that much less adverse effects were seen in the participants in the other three groups. 3rd line: replace ‘health effects’ by ‘adverse health effects’. Introduction: Please distinguish the effects of cooking smoke vs. methods of heating (coal, gas). Give in paragraph 3 some indication of effect sizes observed. Methods: Study participants, Line 5-6: please specify ‘each restaurant worker’ and use singular in this sentence. Why was only one worker per restaurant included? Any data of homogeneity in effects per restaurant? Data from the Pollution Control Department showed that pollutants in the Phitsanulok area were within safe air standards. However, did they vary during the study period? To which extent was traffic related air pollution involved in the outcome? Was any restaurant situated near a busy road (probably it was!)? Results: Define TWC when first time used. Was TWC related to allergy? Was TWC due to irritating smoke or rather an allergic reaction? Please present the results of the combination: ‘Use of ventilation’ and ‘enclosed location’. There may be an adding effect as both affect the indoor air quality. Discussion: Probably palm oil and lard give a different heating temperature (frying temperature without burning; ‘boiling point’). Suggest to include this difference to explain the differences found in adverse effects. Similar for soy bean oil. 