In this study the authors try to identify proteins interacting with specific components of the CAF1-NOT complex in Trypanosome brucei. They used the 2 hybrid method for this and analyzed CBF1 as a control bait to determine specificity. Since they did not identify any significant partner for one of their baits, CAF40, they used alternative approaches, one of which, the affinity purification of CAF40 from Trypanosome brucei followed by mass spectrometry, gave some results. General comments This work really does not go beyond the description of the screening and identified potential partners with a very minimal description of these potential partners. The filtering used to identify which clones are more likely to be true interaction partners has its limitations. The authors use a protein of interest CBF1, find 800 partners and conclude that Cbf1 is promiscuous. We have no information about this protein, or why the identification of 800 partners means that it is promiscuous. It is also not clear why comparing partners of the CAF1-NOT proteins to those of CBF1 is useful, and the authors end up using data that is not in this manuscript, namely partners of others proteins that were screened, to determine which proteins might be specific partners of the CAF1-NOT proteins. It seems that in this case, it would just be more appropriate to provide all the clones isolated for the specific baits and then use a letter in the table to indicate that clones were isolated also in many other unrelated screens. The data exists in a supplementary table, but it could be put in a reader-friendly manner like Table 1 in the main text. It is curious that no CAF1-NOT components were isolated. I am not sure that the size of the library fragments is a good explanation. This could be tested directly, by using the structural information available and make a very small NOT1 clone. But in any event, it seems that the more likely explanation is that the screening was not saturated. Previous data has indicated that chaperones co-purify with NOT10-11, hence the finding of many partners may not be indicative of non-specific interactions but may have significance. In conclusion, I do think that the results of a screen like this would be useful to the community. It could be that if we wait for the authors to try to follow up on all the clones and get relevant biological data, this may take a lot of time and hence some of the data will end up not being made visible. However I feel that the effort the authors make to validate some clones over others is not a good idea. In any event, if they chose to do so, then there should be more description about these clones. Minor comment The way by which Not4 acts in protein quality control is somewhat controversial, I would not write that it is by acting as an E3 ligase. 