The goal of the authors was to evaluate retention of neonatal resuscitation skills immediately before HBB training and then at three time points after: immediately post-training, 3 months and 1 year after. The authors stated that their results show an increase in retention in knowledge, skill and competency immediately post-training and 3 months after, but with a decrease by 1 year of training. Again, the authors should be commended for undertaking a study that evaluates retention of skills as such data are needed to make better recommendations for the frequency that practice is needed in different cohorts for retention of skills. The manuscript is significantly improved from the first submission. However, I did not find the authors to be responsive to all the points of my critique. For example, I am disappointed that the authors did not utilize the list of references that I provided on this topic to do a full literature review about educational outcomes after HBB training that would have been pertinent to their discussion, particularly the Tabingin et al . reference that discusses the performance of different cadres of learners. The manuscript continues to need significant copyediting for basic grammatical, spelling and word choice mistakes. The authors need to review the manuscript to ensure that the references provided at the end of certain statements are correct, and other areas where studies are cited but no reference provided at all. Reference #13 was unclear. There could be better organization to the flow of the writing to tell the story of the study and the use of cited literature to support their findings. The authors state that the main primary outcome was any improved knowledge, skill and competency of health workers on the HBB protocol. This is vague. Are skills and competency being used interchangeably and how are these being measured? The authors used the knowledge check and skills-based assessments (Objective Structured Clinical Evaluations), but how these assessments correlated with skill and/or competency was vague. These concepts could have been better defined and correlated with specific HBB assessments. My interpretation of the study design is that in the intervention hospital, HBB training occurred, and then workshop participants were evaluated pre/post and then at 3 and 12 months with the knowledge and skills-based assessments associated with HBB. In the control hospital, no HBB training was offered. Furthermore, in the intervention hospital, bag-mask ventilation drills were used to augment retention of skills over time. Per the manuscript, it appeared that daily drills were done 5 days per week for three months in the intervention hospital, which resulted in retention of skills as evaluated by the HBB skill-based assessments. Since no drills are described after three months’ time, scores on the skills-based assessments were significantly less at one year. If my understanding is correct, this more so reinforces the point made by many other studies that ongoing practice is necessary to maintain skills. The results also beg the question, why did the neonatal mortality rate decline in the control hospital without HBB exposure? Was it the introduction of the skills-based assessments which could also be used as a formative tool? Long term retention of neonatal resuscitation skills is an important concept that must be studied as there are many unknown factors that could potentially affect competency and skills retention. I continue to applaud the authors for their work and their manuscript has significantly improved. However, I again feel that major revision is necessary before this manuscript is suitable for indexing to fully tell the story of what they did.