The authors describe a Cytoscape app that provides the entry point to the iCTNet resource, containing networks connecting a variety of concepts, including genes, drugs, side effects, tissues, miRNAs and phenotypes. This resource is very useful for users wishing to start with one of these information types and navigate to others e.g. to find all genes and drugs involved in a disease of interest. In general the app works very smoothly. My comments relate mainly to missing details and text to be clarified, as detailed below. Major points: P5 Next, a case study is presented starting with the network from disease nodes as an example. It would be useful to describe the full workflow, including the scientific question, rationale and end goal. There is a Create similarity network feature present in the App menu, but this is not described in the manuscript. It would be useful to add a section describing the feature and a use case. If the user loads too much data, the app will take a long time to respond and the process cant easily be canceled. The user should be warned in the manuscript or via the app that large queries may take a long time. Search starting points can be gene, disease or drug. Why cant users search by other starting points e.g. tissue? The last update date of the ICT database and the date and version used for each resource should be clearly communicated to the user e.g. via the manuscript, app and/or ICT website. Minor points: Page 2: clarify stacked onto. P2: - identifiers P3: The CTD (12) what does mean? P3 drugs paragraph. This section is a bit unclear. CTD provides references to drugbank identifiers? Should it be that CTD provides references to drugbank records? How is the of drugs defined is this just the drug target? Drugbank contains fewer entries compared to what? P3 section. To convert from SNP to gene associations, we combined overlapping loci for each GWAS Catalog disease17. How were the loci combined? The mode author reported gene for each loci was selected as primary. what is a mode? Page 3 and 4 in the Types of interactions section, all sub-sections should include the number of interactions e.g. how many gene-tissue interactions are there? P5 what is a metagraph? P5 - ? P5 Using standard Cytoscape procedures, we further filtered this network to obtain only the protein interactome associated with more than one autoimmune disease (Figure 3B) the Cytoscape procedures should be detailed to make it easier for users to replicate the results in the manuscript. Figure 1 the tissues circle of nodes is covered by edges from other circles can it be moved out a bit to show how it connects to other circles?