This is an interesting case report of a complex aneurysm. However, a few comments on some aspects of the paper are presented here Trivial trauma of the kind described does not usually lead to aneurysmal rupture. Could the rupture of the aneurysm have caused the fall? Moreover, when the CT after the first ictus (the trivial fall) disclosed thick subarachnoid hemorrhage in the Sylvian and suprasellar cistern rather over the convexity of the hemispheres (as would usually be expected with trauma), did the authors not consider doing a DSA or CTA in the first instance? It is very unusual for a major vessel to blindly end in an aneurysm. There is generally a distal take-off of the distal vessel even from giant aneurysms. This is borne out by the fact that the L A2 was being filled across the ACoA on the R ICA injection. Have the authors considered the possibility that this was an A1 aneurysm? The proximal A1 could have been partly thrombosed due to extension of thrombus from the aneurysm into the parent vessel. This could explain the poor visualization of the L A1 whereas the L A2 distal to the aneurysm was being filled by the ACoA. The authors should describe the intra-operative findings in slightly greater detail. The L A1 was blind, per the authors. Was there no connection between the L A1 and A2? It is more likely that the aneurysm obscured this vessel. Was the aneurysm thrombosed? Did it appear to be a true aneurysm or pseudo-aneurysm? Was the sac opened after clipping and dissected away from surrounding structures to clarify the anatomy? The preop DSAs shows vasospasm of the L M1. The authors should comment on what treatment, if any, was considered or given for this. The spasm appears to have resolved on the postop DSA. When was this obtained? Pediatric traumatic intracranial aneurysms are indeed rare. In the Discussion the authors state "a search of “pediatric traumatic intracranial aneurysm” returned 27 cases." However, PubMed search strategies need to built more carefully if valid results are to be obtained. A cursory search using the strings "((aneurysm) AND intracranial) AND trauma" and subsequently applying a filter for only children (birth-18 years) returned 584 results. Even if only 10% of these results were relevant to the search, this would still result in 58 papers dealing with this issue. The full search employed was - (("aneurysm"[MeSH Terms] OR "aneurysm"[All Fields]) AND intracranial[All Fields]) AND ("injuries"[Subheading] OR "injuries"[All Fields] OR "trauma"[All Fields] OR "wounds and injuries"[MeSH Terms] OR ("wounds"[All Fields] AND "injuries"[All Fields]) OR "wounds and injuries"[All Fields]) AND ("infant"[MeSH Terms] OR "child"[MeSH Terms] OR "adolescent"[MeSH Terms])