An interesting study with potential clinical relevance for the identification of women possibly needing reinforced antihypotensive treatment during spinal anesthesia. The study identifies a group of women with stronger SAP reaction to spinal anesthesia based on pre-anesthesia SAP measurement dynamics. The study uses advanced statistical techniques such as smoothing, PCA and clustering to identify the relevant data patterns. Suppl Fig 2 shows how difficult this task would be without the statistical instruments. In the subsequent analysis, smoothing allows the signal to become clear, PCA to reduce the complexity of data and clustering to define groups. In conclusion, a study with a relevant aim, relevant data and relevant statistical analysis. Detailed comments In the Discussion, the authors point out that a new independent study will be needed to show the reliability of the findings, a wise comment when interesting patterns are found in one data set... Maybe the authors could also comment on how this group finding could be used for an individual classification method... They hint at a individual classification algorithm, but maybe a possible realization of such an algorithm should be at least sketched, especially for a non-statistical readership. Otherwise, just minor details: Abstract,Background: "...women with decreasing ...(SAP)..." According to later data, all women eventually had decreasing SAP, the problem being approaching a hypotension limit... Abstract, Methods: way - away Abstract, Conclusions: As commented above, here a "simple test" is mentioned, some more details would be useful later on... Background, para 1,l2: occur- occurs Methods, para 1, l10: are published - have been published Methods, para 3, l5: by to - by Statistical analyses: Maybe the last sentence (about R) should be first... Statistical analyses, para 1, l10: in the rest - in the rest of the paper Statistical analyses, para 2, l2: represented in total - represented Statistical analyses, para 3, l6: the negation of H0 is that at least one is different, not that all are different...) Results, para 1, l3: why "with increasing values"? Results, para 1, l3: principle - principal Results, para 1, l3: The whole sentence beginning on this line should be reformulated, since it is the clustering of the data (blood pressure difference curves) reduced in dimensionality by principal component analysis that allowed the identification of two or three groups of women. Results, Fig 1: it would be better, for comparability, if the two panes had the same y-axis Results, para 3: the relevance of the analysis of standard deviations is unclear, also whether these are computed on raw SAP or on first order differences. In the Suppl Fig 4, the group S2 seems clearly lower than S1. Does this mean anything? Apparently, these results lead to the clustering in 3 groups... Results, para 4: what are the relations between these 3 groups and S1/S2? Are the women in T1+T2 = S1 and T3=S2? Results, Comparison...supine/left, para 1, l7: maybe "borderline points" is better than "borderline women"... Results, Comparison...supine/left, para 1, l7: maybe Fig 2 (and the related last 3 sentences) should be in the preceding subsection... Discussion, para 1, l4: no comma (,) after Kinsella et al. Discussion, para 4, l9: requires - require Discussion, para 5, l2: provide - provides Discussion, para 6, l4: Hypotension - hypotension 