This is a very well written original and interesting article. However, I have some comments and queries: Abstract: Results: “20 representatives”, I suggest moving “20” to methods before “representatives” Introduction: Para 1: Specify time for this statement“ The proportion of adolescents who have ever smoked waterpipe tobacco was between 4 and 33% in Africa and Asia, between 6 and 11% in the USA, and up to 38% in some UK communities” or, if it is the latest available data, replace “was” by “is”. Para 2: “about 4.1mg nicotine, 619.0mg of tar, and 192mg of carbon monoxide” remove “of” Para 3:“This makes designing effective interventions and policies to counter this growing trend challenging. A growing”, I suggest replacing the first “growing” by “expanding” Para 3: I suggest moving the 2014 exhibition information to the next para as it is discussed as well. Methods: Written consent was not taken from the participants and this should be stated. Since the audio recording was done following the interview, the authors should address recall bias and whether consensus between the three data collectors was necessary. Three researchers were present at each interview but did they all participate? How did you ensure privacy if others were present at the exhibition stand ? Results: Page 4, last para” “Rather, these manufacturers were connected with non-tobacco industries; rather than waterpipe companies reaching out to other industries..” rephrase by removing one of the two “rather” Page 5, Attitude towards policy, line 4: “camping”? Correct to “ company” Discussion Page 5, last para: "Our interpretation of cross-industry overlap is that waterpipe tobacco and cigarette industries are not in competition, but rather in collaboration.", The conclusion is not supported with the results. Page 6, para 1: “Furthermore, the waterpipe industry differs from tobacco in several key respects”, shouldn’t tobacco be cigarette industry? Transcripts Authors need to explain why the transcripts vary in detail and the number of researchers reporting. 