This is an interesting retrospective review of ADR reports submitted to the US FDA for adolescents. The strengths are that this population are rarely considered independantly, despite having their own health needs and (as noted by the authors) not having quite the severity of polypharmacy as older individuals. Also, the study considers pharmacogenomics related to the most commonly prescribed medicines, using genecards website as the data source. There is a lot of useful data contained in this publication, however there are some aspects that I think could be improved by some clarifications: 1) What does a genecard score mean for a gene? I know a link is given, but sentence or two giving an overview would help the reader. 2) I am uncomfortable about the odds ratios (ORs) for the completed suicide that feature prominently in the results section of the main paper and the abstract (as they are very very large ORs). Are these describing young people who used the drug as the means to commit suicide, or committed suicide while incidentally using this medication (two very different populations). While I appreciated the lack of medical history mentioned in the discussion, I do worry that presenting these finding when compared to diarrhorea may make the drugs look more dangerous than they are (and I have indicated that professional statistical advice would be useful here to clarify this point - is diarrhoea the right comparitor, or should it be something else?). 3) Phrases like "need for precision medicine in psychiatry" in the discussion sound as if they suggest the study has identified new (or overlooked) pharmacogenomic associations that a clinical pharmacologist could act on, but unless I have misunderstood, the study does not do this, it only highlights where areas of unmet pharmacogenomic need exist. The pharmacogenomic section could be removed from the paper and it would still be a good paper, but assuming it is kept, then I think it needs to clearer exactly what information this brings to a clinician. Overall, I enjoyed this paper, and it adds to this field. 