The article explains the significance of using two different simulation models to calculate quarantine length after repeated pest invasions, particularly from Ceratitis capitate . Quarantine length is a key issue: non- detection doesn’t mean the pest invasion has been eliminated. Therefore, authors have selected eleven sites in the USA to compare quarantine lengths estimated with the usual simulation model –called degree-day model- and a newer one –called Agent-based simulation (ABS) in order to compare both. The first approach calculates quarantine lengths taking into account the time needed to pass 3 pest generations and a thermal approach. The second approach calculates the lengths considering population and elimination. I think it’s a very interesting paper showing how important is the approach selected in order to determine quarantine lengths. The comparison of both approaches gives some useful information about which approach could suit better in function of season, latitude and longitude etc. When both methods are combined, managers can select the best aspects of each one to optimize quarantine lengths. As authors remark at the end of Discussion, using this combination, vital information for planning is provided to managers and affected parts. Only a few recommendations: In my opinion, selection of sites is not well explained. Authors mention the sites “were chosen for their biological relevance and availability of high quality data”, the last is easy to understand; however the first is not so obvious. I’d recommend a brief explanation of why airports have a biological relevance. Regarding Statistical analysis, I recommended a longer explanation: it seems like the only parameter compared is temperature, what about ABS inputs (as initial population, mortality and so on)? I like very much the detailed information provided in the Results section. I’d recommend some changes in the Discussion section since discussion of the results is put together with conclusions. It could be interesting to add a Conclusion section after Discussion, and then the article structure would be clearer. Finally, reference sources tend to be quite old; I’d recommend authors to update them, at least some of them. 