 Editorial Note from F1000Research - 7th July 2016: the status of this review was changed after publication from "Approved with Reservations" to "Approved". The referee's reservation was caused by using the current release (Bioconductor 3.3) as opposed to the development release (Bioconductor 3.4) as used in the article. The following text has been removed: My only reservation to approving the article is that I encountered these two errors when running the Glimma code in the article. I used R 3.3.0 and the most recent version of Glimma from Bioconductor (Glimma 1.0.0) but the sessionInfo() in the article shows Glimma 1.1.1 was used which may account for the errors: 1) With this line of code no plot was produced and it gave the error below: glMDSPlot(lcpm, labels=paste(group, lane, sep="_"), + groups=x$samples[,c(2,5)], launch=TRUE) Error in glScatter.default(points, xval = "dim1", yval = "dim2", xlab = "Dimension 1", : group does not correspond to a column 2) With this line of code the table (shown in Fig 6.) didn't appear, just the 2 plots: glMDPlot(tfit, coef=1, status=dt[,1], main=colnames(tfit)[1], counts=x$counts, samples=colnames(x), anno=x$genes, groups=group, id.column="ENTREZID", display.columns=c("SYMBOL", "ENTREZID"), search.by="SYMBOL", launch=FALSE) This article is a very nice description (nicely written, nicely explained) of an RNA-seq workflow, starting from gene counts and proceeding through a standard differential expression analysis, using 3 complementary Bioconductor packages edgeR, limma Glimma. It explains clearly how to perform the steps of a differential expression analysis and also how to generate useful plots for visualising the data e.g. MDSplot, MDplot, barcodeplot, heatmap etc. Two of the packages, edgeR and limma, are well established while Glimma is the new kid on the block. It's a tool along the lines of the web-based Degust (http://www.vicbioinformatics.com/degust/), in that it enables interactive exploration of RNA-seq data. It would seem to be a very useful addition to R RNA-seq workflows as the interactive html plots it can generate (MDS, MD etc) make exploring the results easier (especially by non-R savvy collaborators) and it could help save an analyst's time and effort through not having to reproduce static plots e.g. to highlight different genes. With the Glimma MDplot I like that you can search for a gene and see a plot of the log-cpm counts for that gene in the samples. It was great to be able to try out the workflow really easily by downloading the data file linked to in the paper (from GEO), with no processing required other than unzipping the files, and the code in the article all worked, giving the same results shown in the paper with the exception of two errors described below. Minor comments: The article says the workflow is available from Bioconductor here http://www.bioconductor.org/help/workflows/ but it doesn't seem to be there, however it is available at the other location mentioned http://bioinf.wehi.edu.au/folders/limmaWorkflow/ The section title "Removing genes that are not expressed" suggests only genes with no expression are removed, however the paragraph then explains that genes lowly expressed are also removed so for greater clarity maybe that could be changed to something like "Removing genes that are not sufficiently expressed". In the section "Organising gene annotations" I think it's good the authors point out to check for duplicated genes, however in this case the duplication appears to be due to extracting the TXCHROM column (as some genes are reported as being present on more than one chromosome) but the TXCHROM information is not used in this workflow and if the TXCHROM column is omitted then there are no duplicates so it might be worth mentioning that. With this bit "Differential expression analyses look at gene expression differences between conditions, rather than comparing expression across multiple genes or drawing conclusions on absolute levels of expression. In other words, gene lengths remain constant for comparisons of interest and any observed differences are a result of changes in condition rather than changes in gene length." Wouldn't one caveat to this be if there was a significant change in the length of the isoform(s) expressed from a gene (e.g. from expression of a long isoform to a short isoform) as then the assumption of no change in gene length would no longer be valid. In the online version Fig.7 is in the middle of a code block could it be moved below. Figs 5-8 have bold headings but Figs 1-4 don't is that an error. Could perhaps modify title to reflect the order in which the tools are used - edger, limma Glimma. It would be nice for consistency if the colours in the Glimma interactive MDS plots matched the colours used in the static MDS plots in Fig 3.