This paper shows promise; however there are some critical aspects which mean that it cannot be approved. (The following review is based on the manuscript alone and not a review of the related literature or secondary sources.) Major observations Efficacy data There seem to be two key differences between QD and BID regimens: direct cost and relative risk (in the model this single efficacy measure seems to incorporate adherence and viral suppression). For direct cost, Table 1 shows that the mean drug cost for once daily regimen (610) is lower than twice daily regimen (638). For efficacy, based on the meta-analysis, there appears to be a benefit to using once daily regimens (QD). Based on that, it is unclear whether the cost utility analysis is warranted (i.e. the intervention (QD) appears to be less costly and have higher efficacy than BID). Country Focus The authors state that the analysis is done “from the Sub-Saharan African healthcare payer’s perspective.” SSA is a large geographical region which includes different countries with diverse health care systems. Consider whether the work will have more impact if one country is chosen as a focus. The authors propose that “Findings from the economic evaluation are important for low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) to consider as they decide whether to adopt the new branded single tablet regimen.” However SSA does not only include LMIC. I do not find anything in the paper which makes it particularly relevant to SSA as opposed to other similar regions which include LMIC. Model structure and assumptions Please explain the rationale behind the choice of model structure. The model structure schematic is inaccurate. Table 1 shows the transition probabilities from State A to B, A to C, A to D and A to E however this is not included in the schematic. The model seems to assume that in a patient’s lifetime they will never fail first line and /or switch to second line therapy. What is the rationale for this assumption in the model? What is the rationale and justification for using a yearly cycle for the markov states? Adherence is not an explicit parameter in the model (although it appears to be factored into the relative risk from the meta-analysis.) Please explain the rationale and justification for this. Perspective and related cost data It is unclear what perspective has actually been used for the analysis. Although the authors state that they have performed the analysis “from the Sub-Saharan African healthcare payer’s perspective”, this appears to be contradicted by the statement “both all direct and indirect cost was considered”. Furthermore the authors conclude the study “From a sub-Saharan Africa societal perspective“. [A clear description of the cost data would clear this point, however the “annual total medical cost” is aggregated and without going into the secondary data sources it is not possible to see exactly what has been included.] It is unclear which specific drugs have been used for the QD and BID regimens, therefore it is difficult to evaluate the calculation of the mean drug cost in Table 1. Time horizon It is unclear what time horizon has been used for the analysis. The authors state that the analysis was performed “over the lifetime of patients”, and later they state that the cohort was “simulated over 20 years”. It is not clear whether the time horizon was 20 years and (possibly) some patients did not reach State E, or the simulation was run for a lifetime until all patients reached State E. Evidence Which search terms were used for which parameters? If the target countries are SSA then what was the rationale for using the US Public Health Service Guidelines? Limitations More discussion is needed around the limitations, it is necessary to explain how they influence the results and how (if at all) they could be improved. Uncertainty An explanation is required regarding the large uncertainty around the results. It is unclear whether the relative risk has been varied in the one way sensitivity analysis. If not, please explain why. Minor observations What software was used for the model? Reconsider the title probabilistic “decision” model - it is a probabilistic markov model (as opposed to decision tree model). “The antiretroviral nave HIV patient is assumed to have a better initial response to medication therapy than individuals who have received previous antiretroviral treatment” please substantiate “An intervention was defined as follows: very cost-effective, ICER GDP per capita ($1,695); cost-effective, ICER = 1–3 GDP per capita ($1,695 to $5,086); and not cost-effective, ICER is 3 GDP per capita ($5,086)”. Which GDP was used from which SSA country? Small cohort noted. 