I appreciate the efforts that the authors have made to make the RNA/ChIP-seq data processing easy by developing this pipeline. I can foresee the educational value of this paper. However, after reading this paper, I have several comments, especially about explaining ‘why’ each processing step is needed to users. It is not clear to me what’s the meaning of protein interactions. Are you talking about protein-DNA interactions or protein-protein interactions? ChIP-seq is mainly used to identify protein-DNA interactions. If multiple ChIP-seq profiles are jointly analyzed, co-binding relationship between multiple proteins can be studied. However, this co-binding relationship is different from protein-protein interaction. The author should say "protein-DNA interactions” instead of "protein interactions" as the latter usually refer to protein-protein interactions. After reading the abstract and introduction, it is not clear to me why RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data are jointly discussed in this paper. Most of the reference papers are just talking about one data type. Please clarify why you choose these two. I know people can integrate both data types to identify regulatory networks (doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btx827) 1 . Is this your motivation? But this is not mentioned in this paper. As this manuscript is prepared to guide beginners lacking enough experience in this filed, it is necessary to tell them why these two data types are jointly discussed here. Although integrating these two data types is not the main focus of this paper, users can preprocess the raw data using this pipeline and do further downstream analysis by using other tools. Definitely, current description of each data type is necessary to let readers know each data type provides unique information. Quality Control should be placed right after alignment as it is a general approach to check read quality and alignment rate. It is very misleading to readers that they need to get peaks or gene expression and then do QC check on BAM files. The following part of RNA-seq data analysis should be improved “Afterwards, we demonstrate how to extract biological significance from these various analyses, by showing students how to visualize gene expression patterns and undertake exploratory data analysis with principal component analysis (PCA). Finally, we show how to undertake differential expression analysis using DESeq2 version 1.21.0 (Love et al., 2014) and how to visualize these differences with volcano plots and experiment-specific visualizations in the R package ggplot2 version 2.2.1 (Wickham, 2009).” Users may have their own data and it can be: (1) one sample, (2) multiple sample under one condition, (3) multiple sample under two conditions. It would be better to discuss processing steps in different scenarios. If only one RNA-seq sample is given, there is no need to do PCA or DESeq2. For (2), PCA can tell if there is batch effect. For (3), PCA can tell how different (at high level) those samples are between two conditions and further DESeq2 can tell which genes are different. In this paragraph, the authors say a lot of ‘how’, but to beginners, they need to know ‘why’ each step is needed. The same issue to ChIP-seq data. Why do users need the intersection step using bedtools? If they get multiple replicates, the intersection step will return reliable peak loci. If data of multiple factors is obtained, they can use the interaction step to extract co-binding events. And gene annotation is usually needed after getting those peaks, which is missing in this pipeline. 