The article describes "Crambled", an online application to investigate cellularity/ploidy solutions of genome sequencing copy number data. The easily accessible and soundly developed tool, enabling informed choices between potential solutions, is the main contribution of this study. It also comprises additional advances to existing methods, as (i) the naturally occurring bias in minor allele fractions of heterozygous loci is assessed and adjusted for, and (ii) crambled suggests potentially heterozygous sites which can add substantially to the information a solution choice is based upon. These are minor suggestions to improve the article: I would have enjoyed some performance statistics on Crambled, for example showing the fraction of samples tried that were successfully resolved, or the fractions of samples tried that had in practice a good fit to expected cluster centers for at least say 70% of the genome. At the moment I can only see the overall performance of a couple of of samples, and Figure 2 seems to be based on simulated data so I cannot assess whether this strategy works out well with real data. I have only tried the online Crambled application, not the full from bam file setup which requires source download. Based on the current version of the article, it is not obvious to me whether the full downloadable version of Crambled returns a list with the copy numbers of a chosen cellularity solution are assigned to genomic locations, or whether this solutions (which will commonly be a central desired outcome of the analysis) have to be extracted with a different software. In the last section before Discussion, I do not understand where the "cloud close to the threshold" is, which is falsely suggesting subclonality. Could that be explained better? The png figures to be supplied to Crambled should show "minor allele proportion" versus "depth of sequencing". Preferably explain that "depth of sequencing" is different from the definition of "Depth" in equation 1 (assuming you mean the total depth, not just the depth of one copy). I think many readers would have enjoyed some more instructions on how to play with the cellularity and depth in the application. What should I try to achieve, what should I try to avoid? 