The reviewed manuscript is a study protocol for studying the risk of bias due to unreported and selectively included results in meta-analyses of nutrition research. I really appreciate the effort the authors put in this detailed study protocol. Below I list some major and minor comments to improve the protocol. Major comments: If there is no systematic review protocol available, there is assumed that there were no eligibility criteria or decision rules pre-specified. I believe this is way too restrictive, because meta-analysts will most of the time have explained what their inclusion and exclusion criteria were in the paper. This is also what is acknowledged in the proposed study protocol, but there is still decided to not use this information. Why are the systematic reviews without study protocol not included as a separate category? It would be interesting to see whether risk of bias is smallest in the systematic reviews with study protocols, larger in the ones with a clear description in the paper, and largest in the ones without a clear description in a study protocol or the paper. There is planned to also include study reports that were eligible for inclusion in the index meta-analysis but excluded in the systematic review. Do the authors of the study protocol expect that a list is included in any systematic review with the study reports that were excluded or are they planning to redo the literature search? If the authors will be relying on a list of excluded study reports, how are they planning to deal with situations were such a list is unavailable? The first meta-analysis is the selected meta-analysis that will be included in the study. Is it expected that the first meta-analysis is equivalent to any other meta-analysis in the systematic review? Do the authors expect that the first meta-analysis is representative for the other meta-analyses in the systematic reviews? I can imagine that the first meta-analysis is on the main effect under study of a systematic review and that the risk of bias is expected to be the largest for this meta-analysis. Minor comments: P.3: The authors may want to consider to change the order of the second and third paragraph of the introduction section. I believe that it is more logical to start with explaining that not all studies are usually accessible for being included in a meta-analysis and then explain that systematic reviewers themselves can also purposefully select which studies to include. P.3: An eligibility criterion of a systematic review to be included is that it can be either a randomized trial or a non-randomized study. Please consider using stratification here such that 50% of the included systematic reviews are randomized trials and 50% non-randomized studies. I believe that this may yield relevant insights as randomized trials are usually seen as of higher quality. P.8: I have a hard time understanding what the planned analysis is for studying the impact of any potential selective inclusion of study effect estimates on the magnitude of resulting meta-analytic ORs and SMDs (last paragraph, left column). Are the authors planning to compute odds ratios for each possible constellation of the 2x2 table of each individual study and then meta-analyzing these odds ratios? I do not see how this will yield insight into the effect of selective inclusion of study effect estimates on the magnitude of the meta-analytic estimate. Moreover, did the authors already write syntax/code for this? If yes, please add this to the study protocol as well. P.8: Related to my previous minor comment, I also do not understand why converting of SMDs to log ORs is necessary. Why not conducting such an analysis based on SMDs? P.8: A fixed-effect meta-analysis is planned to be used to combine the PBI that will be observed in the planned study with a PBI obtained in an earlier study. I doubt whether it is useful to meta-analyze these to PBI-values. Why not interpreting the PBI-value that will be obtained independently from the previously obtained PBI-value? It is, of course, good to relate this PBI-value to the previously obtained one, but I do not really see the need for meta-analyzing the two. Especially not since there are only two PBI-values that can be combined, so it is perfectly possible to interpret the two independently of each other. If the authors still decide to use a fixed-effect meta-analysis for combining the PBI values, please report the I 2 statistic together with its confidence interval. The computed I 2 statistic will be very uncertain in case of two studies and it is important to acknowledge this uncertainty. P.8: The effect of several independent variables on PBI will be tested by means of bootstrap methods. Why are not more conventional methods used for testing these independent variables such as regression analysis? P.9: The impact of any potential selective inclusion of study effect estimates on meta-analytic effect estimates will be studied using random-effects meta-analysis. Please also report what estimator will be used for estimating the between-study variance in the random-effects meta-analysis. 