The manuscript by Dickerman et al. describes an attempt to study the functional conservation of RNA binding proteins implicated in processing of small RNAs and activation of dsRNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR). The work exploits a Drosophila model where PKR is not relevant thus allowing focus on the small RNA processing pathways. The approach is logical to try to rescue a fertility phenotype observed for the Drosophila protein (R2D2) with transgenic expression of a related human protein, PACT. Unfortunately, the authors were not able to demonstrate rescue and thus are left with a negative result. The data presented do support the conclusions drawn, that no rescue could be detected. There are a number of caveats for this result as the authors describe in the Discussion. This is a reasonable contribution to the literature in that it would prevent other researchers from wasting time undertaking the identical experiment. The data presented is robust and convincing. I would suggest some modifications to the text for clarification: The authors begin by describing both related human proteins, PACT and the isoforms of LOQS. While it is logical to describe the family of proteins, this study actually only analyzes the PACT protein. This point should be clearly communicated earlier in the Introduction to the study not just as the final sentence of the Introduction. The section in the Introduction describing Figure 1 is very convoluted and really could be re-written to be clearer. An example with grammatical errors is the second sentence of this paragraph, which reads: “The dsRNA binding proteins LOQS and R2D2 bind Dicer-1 to Dicer-2 respectively.” I think what the authors mean to say is: “The dsRNA binding proteins, LOQS and R2D2, bind TO Dicer-1 AND Dicer-2, respectively.” The description of the proteins really needs to be rewritten for clarification. If the authors could perform an additional experiment to address one of the caveats that they mention, ideally they could compare the expression levels for the transgenic human and fly proteins. Such a direct comparison would really only be possible if the proteins are tagged with an epitope tag. Given the number of caveats for the study presented here, the real value as described above is simply to communicate that these experiments have been attempted using this approach.