This article describes an improved procedure for the synthesis of two fluorescent probes commonly used to image lipid rafts: laurdan and C-laurdan, as well as two new probes: M-laurdan and MoC-laurdan. All four probes are extensively characterized in different solvents and membranes with different lipid compositions in the temperature range from 10 to 60 C. Based on presented data, the authors conclude that the new probe, M-laurdan, is the best of four for discrimination of lipid membrane phases independently of the chemical nature of lipids. This conclusion appears to stem mainly from the correlation plots between GP and anisotropy shown in Fig. 7. The authors describe correlations as the strongest for M-laurdan, good for laurdan and MoC-laurdan, and moderate for C-laurdan. Just from looking at Fig. 7, however, it is not obvious that the correlation is the strongest for M-laurdan. It would help if the authors will provide a quantitative measure of correlation, such as a correlation coefficient or another similar parameter. The authors also state that M-laurdan makes the best staining patterns in live cells. Based on Figure 8, the difference between laurdan, M-laurdan and MoC-laurdan is not very obvious. It would be great if either a better example or better explanations are provided. Other comments and suggestions are listed below: Some measurements were taken two times and the mean values and standard deviations were provided, e.g. Fig. 2, Fig. 7. Many other measurements seem to be only performed once, for example, Figures 3, 4, 6, S1, S2, S4, Tables 2, 3). I would suggest performing at least 3-4 measurements and report standard deviations for all measured values. Results and Discussion - Insertion of the fluorophores into LUVs: It is stated that no detectable difference is found comparing two methods of labeling referring to Figure 4. However, Figure 4 only shows data for the DMSO loading method and not for direct mixing. Also, it would be great to see the same data for M-laurdan and MoC-laurdan. The section title Probing model bilayers in pure So states is misleading, as this section describes mostly transition from So to Ld phase. The same applies to Fig.5, where it says that blue symbols depict So phase. Results and Discussion - Probing model bilayers in Lo states: In the second paragraph Kim et al. should have a reference associated with it. 