The authors present and provide a tutorial to epiflows, an R package for calculating the risk of travel-related disease export from an epidemic area. It is a useful implementation of an algorithm, with associated visualization tools. It is technically sound though the scaffolding around the core algorithm is somewhat over-engineered. Both the package design and paper description imply this package is designed for rapid risk assessment. My comments are primarily in regard to the clarity of the description and the usability of the package API in this context. The `global_vars()` function is a thin wrapper around R's `options()` mechanism that obfuscates what is actually happening, and the name itself is somewhat confusing. (There are many different uses and abuses of global variables in R). It is difficult to see how this function improves over simply telling the user that default variables are defined by `epiflows.vars` in R's options mechanism (epiflows.varnames might be clearer). While it is mentioned that the `epiflows` object inherits from `epicontacts`, it is not clear what this means and how it is relevant to the user. Given the epiflows object has different contents than the `epicontacts` object, it should be explained. I see in the package vignette that subsetting methods are inherited, but given that the object contents are different, this should be demonstrated in the paper. Otherwise it is hard to see what the advantage of this object is at all, over simply passing data frames to the algorithm function. The paper (as well as the code demonstration and vignette in the package), spends considerable time on the conversion of the partially processed data in `YF_Brazil` to data appropriately structured to be used in the `make_epiflows()` and `estimate_risk_spread()` function. This is confusing and not very useful - most users will not have data in exactly the format of `YF_Brazil`, and it distracts from the description of the core package functionality. It would be far clearer to introduce and demonstrate the functions first using data in its ready-to-analyze form. If the authors wish to provide an example of an actual full workflow, they should start with actual raw source data from the the supplementary data. A useful addition would also be to describe possible sources of the data needed. The distributions of incubation and infectious periods is important and glossed over rather quickly here. First, on page 3, the text reads, "The method assumes that the incubation period TE and the infectious period TI follow specific probability distributions." This is unclear, I think "disease-specific" would be clearer. Moreover, in the code tutorial, these distributions are simply assumed. It would make more sense to describe why such distributions are selected and the source of the parameters, e.g., "For yellow fever we choose these distributions based on clinical literature describing the disease course as X to Y days of incubation and V to Z days infectious period (Citation 1, Citation 2). Lognormal or Gamma distributions are typically used for these distributions..." It also confusing that both individuals traveling and incubation times are shown as T in the mathematical notation. 