IBK is a common painful condition calves, yet there is limited evidence of its impact on calf behaviour. Previous research by this group has looked at the changes in pain sensitivity associated with ulceration. This paper sets out to look at behavioural changes associated with IBK. The study is clear and well-planned with three distinct treatment groups (scarification, scarification + apparently non-pathogenic bacteria; scarification + pathogenic bacteria). Unfortunately, as with the previous pain sensitivity study, the impact of the lesions of IBK resulting from infection of a scarified cornea is obscured by the impact of the scarification required as part of the disease-producing model. This limits the value of the study as a study of IBK rather than ocular pain. This is further compounded by the short time interval over which the data were collected. However, the data collection process is well-planned; in particular, the choice of measures to include in the ethogram is well explained and based on previously published data. The statistics are, for the most part, clearly explained, even though they are complex. One are that was not clear was the choice of model. The paper states A scaled Pearsons statistic ( 2 n/ df where df is the degrees of freedom) was used to select the preferred modeling approach. We preferred the model with the statistics closer to 1 to which the immediate questions for the non-statistician are how and why? There is one statistical misstep, which is repeated on multiple occasions. After demonstrating no effect of treatment or its interaction with time on behaviour, they then compare the baseline and scarification results for each treatment and report that there were treatment effects for the differences. For example, for the combined head behaviours there was no effect of treatment or interaction with treatment and time (p=0.42 and 0.18, respectively); yet it is reported that for control group baseline and scarification were not different (p=0.75) but they were for the two other groups (p=0.02 and 0.04). This is effectively saying there is an interaction between treatment and time when its just been shown that there isnt. As its not really referred to later losing this analysis does not affect the conclusions of the data. The conclusion that head based behaviours could be used to detect early signs of ocular disease is valid, but its utility is reduced by the problems with the model of producing the disease as all of the changes found in this study are really a response to the scarification required to produce corneal damage that can then become infected by M. bovis . A better model with a less painful initial stage would be useful perhaps introducing nave calves to a group of previously infected cattle (either naturally or artificially induced); this should be discussed in the paper.