This is an important article, highlighting the previously overlooked problem of poor outcomes in nearly half of people with drug-susceptible TB, which is usually considered "low hanging fruit" and relatively easy to treat (as opposed to more complicated drug-resistant TB). The article is generally well-written and provides important specifics to help readers understand what was done, the context, and what conclusions can be fairly drawn from the data. It is good that the authors highlight the importance of ART initiation and earlier ART, ambulatory care, screening for other known correlates of poor outcomes (DM, smoking, etc.), as well as employing validated screening tools for potential risk behaviors (alcohol and drug use) There are a few areas that could be improved: I was surprised that a major recommendation was not to conduct more active case finding. The article mentions briefly that there is some active case finding in this setting, but it is not analyzed that 82% of cases were identified through passive case finding. While not identified as a risk factor for poor DS-TB per this analysis, it could be just that there were so few cases for active case finding that the N in the comparison was too small for significance. The fact that the vast majority of cases are found through passive case finding indicates a weak system for active finding, which leads to late detection, higher probability of transmission to more people, and greater chance of extensive disease (which could contribute to poor outcomes). Relatedly, cavitation (which is a marker of extent of disease) was not explored as a risk factor for poor outcomes and could likely be easily included as part of a baseline analysis of risk if Ukraine is already routinely performing radiography on all patients. Aside from individual patient risk factors, the fact that 11% of cases are missing data and the high rate of loss to follow up indicate need for patient support across the board to ensure patients are able to stay in care through cure. The authors do not describe what kind of interventions could help improve outcomes for those at high risk, despite a large body of evidence on useful elements of patient support. Avoid the use of stigmatizing language, in line with recommended language: http://www.stoptb.org/assets/documents/resources/publications/acsm/LanguageGuide_ForWeb20131110.pdf . For example, use "lost to follow up" as opposed to "defaulted"; "persons in need of evaluation for TB" instead of "suspects" and define what is considered "alcohol abuse" and consider using a less stigmatizing term (which is indeed avoided in certain parts of the document) such as "frequent alcohol use" or "high alcohol consumption"). While not the main focus of the article, the authors refer to but do not make notes about several areas where the UNTP guidance is inappropriate; it is worth calling these out as well. For example: The authors note that routine DST is done for all culture positive cases but do not specify using what method-- liquid or solid culture phenotypic testing? Are line probe assays available? The availability (or lack thereof) of rapid methods of DST (in addition to Xpert, which only identifies rifampicin resistance) could be another recommendation that could help improve treatment outcomes by identifying need for regimen changes earlier on. Chest radiography is done for high risk groups annually --this is potentially a lot of exposure to radiation—why not use symptom screen and Xpert? 