In this paper the authors analyses the relationship between the attributes of authors and reviewers and reviewer outcomes in three datasets, one an innovative peer-review model and two which use traditional peer review. They find no evidence of gender or institutional bias and limited interaction between author and reviewer region. Although social bias in peer review has been investigated in the past, I think this study is timely and the question of whether this previously found bias still exists with changing social norms and values is interesting. However, there is a need for some clarification of the methods before the significance of the authors findings can be determined. Major revisions The authors are very clear that their study investigates as defined by the interaction between author and reviewer attributes, or bias as a function of reviewer characteristics (ref 29). They make the point that their methodology cannot determine biases that are shared by all reviewers regardless of reviewer characteristics. In the Introduction, the authors switch between describing previous research on reviewer characteristics and previous research on author characteristics. For example, paragraph 2 is predominantly about studies of reviewer characteristics, but ends on author characteristics. Paragraph 3 appears to begins on author characteristics, but then cites studies on reviewer characteristics. It would be much easier for the reader to understand what contribution this study makes to the literature if the authors made a clearer distinction between current evidence on reviewer characteristics (including those studies which looked at both reviewer and author characteristics) and other research on bias, which would include research focused only on author characteristics. As part of the peer review process for Frontiers reviewers can, if they wish, complete the ratings questionnaire shown in Fig 1 and it was these ratings that were used in the study analysis. I think it would be useful for the authors to clarify the following: Do Frontiers reviewers complete the rating independently of each other before the collaborative process? If this is the case, it is not clear to me why individual scores for each paper were averaged for the Frontiers dataset, but apparently not for the other two datasets. If the aim of this study is to investigate the interaction between reviewer attributes and those of authors, wouldnt averaging the reviewer scores in this way confound this aim? Alternatively, if the ratings form is completed by reviewers after the collaborative process, how have the authors accounted for the potential confounding effect of the collaboration? Also, if reviewers complete the rating independently of each other, the characteristics of peer review for the Frontiers dataset used in this study are the same as that for the other datasets, i.e. it is single blind peer review. In all three datasets the reviewers are made aware of the authors names, but the authors do not know the reviewers is that correct? In the discussion the authors state that the findings of this study could be valid for a broad range of peer review systems. However, this study did not include the interactive component of Frontiers peer review process, or if it did, it is not clear how. All three datasets appear to have used the single blind system of peer review. This statement in the discussion should be rephrased. Minor Reference 31 is for a commentary. Can authors should provide the reference for the original Swedish study? Can the authors provide data on the error rate for their gender assignment process? I think the authors could provide a more informative title, for example, Bias in peer review: the interaction between reviewer and author characteristics. Please note, I do not have the expertise to comment on the model and statistical analysis used in this study.