Firstly, I want to thank The Editorial Team of F1000Research for this opportunity to review the following manuscript. I want to also thank the authors for recommending as a reviewer for their manuscript. Although this comparative concept is extremely new and interesting, I will generate candid comments which at times may seem overly critical. Please accept these criticisms in the positive spirit in which they are intended. I believe that the manuscript would be suitable for indexing if the comments/questions are addressed and appropriate changes made. The authors in their Introduction largely reviewed the anemia and the contributing factors of PNA and PH which in large part are repeated in the discussion section. For that, I recommend that authors should summarize their introduction while briefly reviewing the role of VSD closure in the anemia (especially when all their patients had repaired defects either surgically or with minimal invasive approach). Authors are encouraged to detail the method of defect repair. When is was performed? Is it early on diagnosis or later in time? The reason for closure especially in small defects? What do they actually mean by minimal invasive closure? Is it percutaneously or using a hybrid approach? Moreover, authors should explain why did they consider PNA as the only lower respiratory tract infection? And diagnosis of PHT should be more clearly detailed and if international guidelines were used reference must be cited. Additionally, where all patients screened for other possible hematological diseases to be excluded from the study? Table 1 : What does the patients mean by VSD size? is it the LV entry or the RV exit? I advice the authors to mention minimum and maximum values especially in each of the 3 groups for the PHT row as it may seems that some of Group A patients had PHT. Statistics: SPSS version must reported. Table 1 and 2 should be briefly described in the results sections. Table 3 must be just reported in the text. The first 4 paragraphs of the discussion are pure literature review without any relevant discussion with the study results. In fact excessive review could impose more stratified results: should authors report the etiology on the PNA since the described the possible implications of infectious organisms in anemia. Therefore, discussion should focus in some part on the prevalence of anemia in repaired VSD (and if possible discussing the timing of closure and its possible effect of the results) while highlighting what is has been previously written by the authors. No changes are needed for the limitations and conclusions section. 