Visual crowding is a poorly understood phenomenon, the neural origins of which are “hotly debated” 1 . It can occur at various levels in a perceptual hierarchy, including that of objects 1 . Information is not necessarily lost but can become misappropriated, and, perhaps in consequence, critical spacing differs across stimulus categories 2 . It is exaggerated in clinical cases to the extent that objects sometimes cannot be discerned unless presented singly in an uncluttered scene 3 . The authors of this paper clearly take the view that crowding is one thing rather than several. It may or may not be one thing, but this does not matter here. Pelli and co-authors present some very challenging ideas and data, together with techniques that have exciting potential in the clinic. The following are simply thoughts that have occurred to me on reading the report. They are not suggestions for alterations to the draft, with the exception of the list of items at the end. I have some reservations as to the use of highly contrasted spatially periodic material. We showed that single words and words in sentences are read by fluent readers about 10% more slowly when they have a high first peak in the horizontal autocorrelation of the image of the word. When the component strokes of the letters have a spatial periodicity, as in the word mum, the words are slower to read 4 . Jainta, Jaschinski and I showed that some of this slowing was due to the time taken for the eyes to re-establish vergence with minimum error following a saccade 5 . Similar considerations may apply to the use of periodic strokes in the Pelli font when the font is observed with both eyes. Some of the difficulty in reading the letters may be due to vergence correction. If so, monocular viewing may reduce the effects of the spatial periodicity relative to binocular viewing. One might expect the usual reduction in acuity with monocular viewing, but on this account the reduction might be less for the Pelli font because it compromises vergence? A second and related consideration concerns pattern glare. This term refers to the perceptual distortions and instability experienced by some observers on viewing spatially periodic arrays, in particular gratings with spatial frequency within one octave of 3 cycles/degree 6 . Such arrays would include those of similar letters presented across the page, as a result of both the letter strokes and the lines of letters, depending on scale. Perceptual distortions are usually accompanied by discomfort. Did observers report perceptual distortions, particularly instability (apparent movement) of the letters when presented in closely spaced arrays? If so, did they then have a higher threshold and report discomfort? If the Pelli font is to be used with children it would be nice to have data showing how readily (e.g. with what speed) they can name the digits 1-9 when presented in isolation, and how this changes with age. I suspect that digits in which a contour is represented as a filled square might be particularly difficult for young children to recognise. These digits include 4, 6, 8 and 9. Is it necessary to include these digits? Without them, the choice is 1 of 5, which is surely sufficient to be used in rapid clinical assessment. After all, most alphabetic charts use only a subset of the letters of the alphabet and this difference between the perceived set size and actual set size does not appear to present the problems that might be anticipated. As regards the particulars of the report: There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. All in all, this is a fascinating piece of original research, and I hope the promise of clinical use is borne out. I, for one, would like to know whether there is a relationship between pattern glare and crowding. If there is, it might be possible to bring together two disparate aspects of the literature, which would have useful theoretical spin-off. References 1. Chaney W, Fischer J, Whitney D: The hierarchical sparse selection model of visual crowding. Front Integr Neurosci . 2014; 8 : 73 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Whitney D, Levi DM: Visual crowding: a fundamental limit on conscious perception and object recognition. Trends Cogn Sci . 2011; 15 (4): 160-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract 4. Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, et al.: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract 5. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, et al.: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Wilkins A. Reviewer Report For: A clinical test for visual crowding [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :81 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8434.r11982 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1#referee-response-11982 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 16 Feb 2016 Denis Pelli , New York University, New York, USA 16 Feb 2016 Author Response Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et ... Continue reading Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et al. 1989; Wilkins et al. 2007; Jainta et al., 2010). Yes, reducing periodicity might allow a reduction of the size or spacing limit. It's interesting that one of the most revered experts on type design, Gerrit Noordzij (1985/2005), professor of typeface design at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in The Hague, Netherlands, wrote that the best type has an even alternation of white and black, which seems to advocate optimizing font design by maximizing the same periodicity that your research recommends minimizing. We don’t yet have any reports of discomfort (Wilkins et al. 1984). We'll record such reports to correlate with results. Thanks. Our paper includes testing on two 8-year olds. Their time per trial and critical spacing were similar to those of the adults we tested. We will be collecting a lot more data on children, down to age 4. We'll keep track of which letters they have trouble with (time and accuracy), and, if necessary, we will adjust or drop (as you suggest) troublesome letters. We share your interest in individual differences in reading (Bouldoukian et al., 2002). In our study, Drs. Martelli (U. Rome Sapienza IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia), Waugh (Anglia Ruskin U.), and Rhodes (NYU) are testing school-age children, including many with dyslexia or amblyopia. Regarding your numbered points: 1. There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Yes, this would be better: "This critical spacing grows linearly with eccentricity” 2. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? We can't. It’s under review at another journal. F1000Research journal style designates this as an "unpublished report". We have sent you a copy privately. 3. Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” As noted above, we reported our results on two 8 year olds. We will be testing children in Cambridge (Waugh), New York (Rhodes), and Rome (Martelli). 4. Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” See Fig. 9 and associated discussion in Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. Nature Neuroscience , 11(10):1129 - 1135. doi: 10.1038/nn.2187 http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v11/n10/index.html#pe They cite: Kwon, M., Legge, G.E. Dubbels, B.R. Developmental changes in the visual span for reading. Vision Res . 47, 2889–2900 (2007). 5. The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. This may help: “Because the screen is covered with letters less than 1 degree apart, no matter where the eye lands, at least one letter will be imaged in the observer’s 1 deg foveola.” ​Thank you. Denis, on behalf of my coauthors. References Bouldoukian, J., Wilkins, A. J., Evans, B. J. (2002). Randomised controlled trial of the effect of coloured overlays on the rate of reading of people with specific learning difficulties. Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics , 22 (1), 55-60. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Noordzij G (1985/2005) The Stroke: Theory of Writing , Hyphen Press , London (published in Dutch in 1985, translated into English by Peter Enneson in 2005). http://uedata.amazon.com/The-Stroke-Writing-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/0907259308 Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, Della Sala S, Tilley A, Arnold K, Barrie M, Scott S: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, Boyd A, Hardy G, Mell L, Peach C, Harper S: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et al. 1989; Wilkins et al. 2007; Jainta et al., 2010). Yes, reducing periodicity might allow a reduction of the size or spacing limit. It's interesting that one of the most revered experts on type design, Gerrit Noordzij (1985/2005), professor of typeface design at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in The Hague, Netherlands, wrote that the best type has an even alternation of white and black, which seems to advocate optimizing font design by maximizing the same periodicity that your research recommends minimizing. We don’t yet have any reports of discomfort (Wilkins et al. 1984). We'll record such reports to correlate with results. Thanks. Our paper includes testing on two 8-year olds. Their time per trial and critical spacing were similar to those of the adults we tested. We will be collecting a lot more data on children, down to age 4. We'll keep track of which letters they have trouble with (time and accuracy), and, if necessary, we will adjust or drop (as you suggest) troublesome letters. We share your interest in individual differences in reading (Bouldoukian et al., 2002). In our study, Drs. Martelli (U. Rome Sapienza IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia), Waugh (Anglia Ruskin U.), and Rhodes (NYU) are testing school-age children, including many with dyslexia or amblyopia. Regarding your numbered points: 1. There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Yes, this would be better: "This critical spacing grows linearly with eccentricity” 2. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? We can't. It’s under review at another journal. F1000Research journal style designates this as an "unpublished report". We have sent you a copy privately. 3. Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” As noted above, we reported our results on two 8 year olds. We will be testing children in Cambridge (Waugh), New York (Rhodes), and Rome (Martelli). 4. Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” See Fig. 9 and associated discussion in Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. Nature Neuroscience , 11(10):1129 - 1135. doi: 10.1038/nn.2187 http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v11/n10/index.html#pe They cite: Kwon, M., Legge, G.E. Dubbels, B.R. Developmental changes in the visual span for reading. Vision Res . 47, 2889–2900 (2007). 5. The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. This may help: “Because the screen is covered with letters less than 1 degree apart, no matter where the eye lands, at least one letter will be imaged in the observer’s 1 deg foveola.” ​Thank you. Denis, on behalf of my coauthors. References Bouldoukian, J., Wilkins, A. J., Evans, B. J. (2002). Randomised controlled trial of the effect of coloured overlays on the rate of reading of people with specific learning difficulties. Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics , 22 (1), 55-60. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Noordzij G (1985/2005) The Stroke: Theory of Writing , Hyphen Press , London (published in Dutch in 1985, translated into English by Peter Enneson in 2005). http://uedata.amazon.com/The-Stroke-Writing-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/0907259308 Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, Della Sala S, Tilley A, Arnold K, Barrie M, Scott S: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, Boyd A, Hardy G, Mell L, Peach C, Harper S: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 16 Feb 2016 Denis Pelli , New York University, New York, USA 16 Feb 2016 Author Response Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et ... Continue reading Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et al. 1989; Wilkins et al. 2007; Jainta et al., 2010). Yes, reducing periodicity might allow a reduction of the size or spacing limit. It's interesting that one of the most revered experts on type design, Gerrit Noordzij (1985/2005), professor of typeface design at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in The Hague, Netherlands, wrote that the best type has an even alternation of white and black, which seems to advocate optimizing font design by maximizing the same periodicity that your research recommends minimizing. We don’t yet have any reports of discomfort (Wilkins et al. 1984). We'll record such reports to correlate with results. Thanks. Our paper includes testing on two 8-year olds. Their time per trial and critical spacing were similar to those of the adults we tested. We will be collecting a lot more data on children, down to age 4. We'll keep track of which letters they have trouble with (time and accuracy), and, if necessary, we will adjust or drop (as you suggest) troublesome letters. We share your interest in individual differences in reading (Bouldoukian et al., 2002). In our study, Drs. Martelli (U. Rome Sapienza IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia), Waugh (Anglia Ruskin U.), and Rhodes (NYU) are testing school-age children, including many with dyslexia or amblyopia. Regarding your numbered points: 1. There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Yes, this would be better: "This critical spacing grows linearly with eccentricity” 2. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? We can't. It’s under review at another journal. F1000Research journal style designates this as an "unpublished report". We have sent you a copy privately. 3. Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” As noted above, we reported our results on two 8 year olds. We will be testing children in Cambridge (Waugh), New York (Rhodes), and Rome (Martelli). 4. Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” See Fig. 9 and associated discussion in Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. Nature Neuroscience , 11(10):1129 - 1135. doi: 10.1038/nn.2187 http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v11/n10/index.html#pe They cite: Kwon, M., Legge, G.E. Dubbels, B.R. Developmental changes in the visual span for reading. Vision Res . 47, 2889–2900 (2007). 5. The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. This may help: “Because the screen is covered with letters less than 1 degree apart, no matter where the eye lands, at least one letter will be imaged in the observer’s 1 deg foveola.” ​Thank you. Denis, on behalf of my coauthors. References Bouldoukian, J., Wilkins, A. J., Evans, B. J. (2002). Randomised controlled trial of the effect of coloured overlays on the rate of reading of people with specific learning difficulties. Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics , 22 (1), 55-60. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Noordzij G (1985/2005) The Stroke: Theory of Writing , Hyphen Press , London (published in Dutch in 1985, translated into English by Peter Enneson in 2005). http://uedata.amazon.com/The-Stroke-Writing-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/0907259308 Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, Della Sala S, Tilley A, Arnold K, Barrie M, Scott S: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, Boyd A, Hardy G, Mell L, Peach C, Harper S: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et al. 1989; Wilkins et al. 2007; Jainta et al., 2010). Yes, reducing periodicity might allow a reduction of the size or spacing limit. It's interesting that one of the most revered experts on type design, Gerrit Noordzij (1985/2005), professor of typeface design at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in The Hague, Netherlands, wrote that the best type has an even alternation of white and black, which seems to advocate optimizing font design by maximizing the same periodicity that your research recommends minimizing. We don’t yet have any reports of discomfort (Wilkins et al. 1984). We'll record such reports to correlate with results. Thanks. Our paper includes testing on two 8-year olds. Their time per trial and critical spacing were similar to those of the adults we tested. We will be collecting a lot more data on children, down to age 4. We'll keep track of which letters they have trouble with (time and accuracy), and, if necessary, we will adjust or drop (as you suggest) troublesome letters. We share your interest in individual differences in reading (Bouldoukian et al., 2002). In our study, Drs. Martelli (U. Rome Sapienza IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia), Waugh (Anglia Ruskin U.), and Rhodes (NYU) are testing school-age children, including many with dyslexia or amblyopia. Regarding your numbered points: 1. There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Yes, this would be better: "This critical spacing grows linearly with eccentricity” 2. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? We can't. It’s under review at another journal. F1000Research journal style designates this as an "unpublished report". We have sent you a copy privately. 3. Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” As noted above, we reported our results on two 8 year olds. We will be testing children in Cambridge (Waugh), New York (Rhodes), and Rome (Martelli). 4. Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” See Fig. 9 and associated discussion in Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. Nature Neuroscience , 11(10):1129 - 1135. doi: 10.1038/nn.2187 http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v11/n10/index.html#pe They cite: Kwon, M., Legge, G.E. Dubbels, B.R. Developmental changes in the visual span for reading. Vision Res . 47, 2889–2900 (2007). 5. The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. This may help: “Because the screen is covered with letters less than 1 degree apart, no matter where the eye lands, at least one letter will be imaged in the observer’s 1 deg foveola.” ​Thank you. Denis, on behalf of my coauthors. References Bouldoukian, J., Wilkins, A. J., Evans, B. J. (2002). Randomised controlled trial of the effect of coloured overlays on the rate of reading of people with specific learning difficulties. Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics , 22 (1), 55-60. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Noordzij G (1985/2005) The Stroke: Theory of Writing , Hyphen Press , London (published in Dutch in 1985, translated into English by Peter Enneson in 2005). http://uedata.amazon.com/The-Stroke-Writing-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/0907259308 Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, Della Sala S, Tilley A, Arnold K, Barrie M, Scott S: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, Boyd A, Hardy G, Mell L, Peach C, Harper S: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 19 Jan 2016 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 1 19 Jan 16 read read Arnold Wilkins , University of Essex, Colchester, UK Christopher Tyler , Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute, San Francisco, USA Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Tyler C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 04 Feb 2016 | for Version 1 Christopher Tyler , Brain Imaging Center, Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute, San Francisco, CA, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 Tyler C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In general, this is an excellent presentation of the capabilities of a new font designed for the measurement of foveal crowding. In relation to terminology, the standard physical and mathematical unit “arcmin” is to be preferred to the ill-formed “minarc”. In the Introduction it should be clarified that eq 3 is derived from eqs 1 2. Are the cited studies of foveal crowding compatible with a 1.7:1 ratio of crowding to acuity? The Vernier acuity limit is closer to 0.1 arcmin than 0.01 deg, and its ratio to its crowding spacing would be much greater than 10:1. According to Levi et al. (1985), the maximal crowding is at 3 arcmin for a ~0.1 arcmin foveal Vernier acuity, or a 30:1 ratio. Fig. 7 caption. “ratio” should be plural in “several spacing:size ratio”. The significance of the invariance of threshold with spacing:size ratio is obscure. It might be clearer to say “threshold spacing of each observer is proportional element size rather than conforming to a fixed spacing independent of element size”. The Discussion should specify what is 6 mm in V1. Is this the diameter of the (circular) crowding zone? In suggesting that the crowding is limited by the number of neurons/mm 2 in cortex, it should clarify that the number of neurons within a 6 mm diameter crowding zone would be roughly 1.5 million just in V1, and perhaps 5 million throughout the visual hierarchy. Is this the number that are expected to participate in the acuity performance? The Discussion should reflect the studies of the Cavanagh on the attentional window hypothesis of crowding. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 17 Feb 2016 Denis Pelli, New York University, New York, USA Dr. Christopher Tyler Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute Dear Christopher, Thank you for your timely and helpful review. In general, this is an excellent presentation of the capabilities of a new font designed for the measurement of foveal crowding. Thank you. In relation to terminology, the standard physical and mathematical unit "arcmin" is to be preferred to the ill-formed "minarc". Agreed. We’ll change to: arcmin. In the Introduction it should be clarified that eq 3 is derived from eqs 1 2. Yes. We’ll do that. Are the cited studies of foveal crowding compatible with a 1.7:1 ratio of crowding to acuity? We agree that our measure should be compared to the prior literature, but we think that it’s more appropriate to forget acuity and just compare crowding directly. The crowding-to-acuity ratio is dimensionless, a ratio of degrees to degrees, but it is not fundamental. Pelli et al. (2006) Fig. 5b and Pelli et al. (2007) Fig. 6, reproduced below, showed that critical spacing (center to center) is independent of the letter size used to measure it. They got the same critical spacing despite varying letter size over a 2:1 range. Pelli and Tillman (2008) Fig. 5 provides demos, reproduced below, showing that critical spacing is independent of target size. Thus we expect the critical spacing of crowding in the healthy fovea to be a fixed constant, independent of the font and letter size used to measure it. Acuity (threshold size) depends strongly on the font, so the variable ratio is less interesting than the critical spacing itself, which should not change. FIGURE: Critical spacing data from Pelli et al. (2007) Figure 6. Reproduced here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3624758/figure/F2/ The axes indicate position in the visual field, relative to the fixation point (grey “+” in upper left). In the upper right, also gray, we show a triplet: a target letter between two symmetrically arranged flankers. The colored contour lines trace out the center-to-center target-to-flanker spacing the observer required to achieve 80%-correct identification of the target letter. At each eccentricity, the black, red, and green curves represent different letter sizes. We used larger letters at more peripheral locations, but the large letter size (plotted green) was always approximately twice the small letter size (plotted red). The results show that the critical spacing is proportional to radial eccentricity and independent of letter size. FIGURE: Critical spacing demo from Pelli and Tillman (2008) Figure 5. Reproduced here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3624758/figure/F3/ Critical spacing is independent of object and size. Fixating on a red minus, you will be unable to identify the middle object in that row unless you isolate the target object by hiding the flanking objects with your fingers (or two pencils). The is our estimate of the fixation point where you can just barely identify the target. Note that the task is easy when you fixate to the right of the and hard when you fixate to the left. In rows 1-2, 3-4, and 5-6, note that doubling object size has no effect on critical spacing. It is easy to measure the critical spacing of crowding in the periphery, where it has much longer range than most other effects. It is not easy to measure it in the fovea, where a measured spacing threshold may in fact be limited by acuity or overlap masking. Song et al. (2014) found distinct relationships between threshold size and spacing for the three mechanisms. Crowding has a fixed threshold spacing, independent of size. Acuity is a fixed threshold size, independent of spacing. Overlap masking produces a threshold spacing proportional to threshold size, with a ratio of 1.4. We look for these signatures here, taking conservation of threshold spacing across size as evidence for crowding. The conservation of our 0.05 deg estimate across letter size is strong evidence that it’s a crowding limit. Indeed, at the 0.05 deg threshold size of the Sloan font, two letters will be touching at a 0.05 deg center-to-center spacing. Legibility will be impaired by overlap masking, which extends to a spacing of 1.4 times the acuity size (Song et al.2014). Some studies used tiny targets (e.g. Vernier) to obtain crowding estimates consistent with this (e.g. Levi et al., 1985; Malania et al., 2007). Other studies used bigger targets, like the Sloan font, which cannot measure a spacing as small as that, and end up reporting larger threshold spacings that are limited by overlap masking or acuity, not crowding. We’ll add this point to the paper. Thanks! The Vernier acuity limit is closer to 0.1 arcmin than 0.01 deg, Oops. Yes, thanks for catching this. We’ll fix it. and its ratio to its crowding spacing would be much greater than 10:1. According to Levi et al. (1985), the maximal crowding is at 3 arcmin for a ~0.1 arcmin foveal Vernier acuity, or a 30:1 ratio. As noted above, the ratio is not conserved by crowding. Crowding conserves the threshold spacing. 3 arcmin is 0.05 deg, which agrees with our 0.05 deg estimate made with the Pelli font. Fig. 7 caption. “ratio” should be plural in “several spacing:size ratio”. Yes. Thanks. We’ll fix it. The significance of the invariance of threshold with spacing:size ratio is obscure. It might be clearer to say “threshold spacing of each observer is proportional element size rather than conforming to a fixed spacing independent of element size”. Uh oh. This is an important point, which we need to explain better. As noted above, conservation of threshold spacing, independent of size, is evidence of crowding (Pelli et al. 2006; Pelli et al. 2007; Song et al. 2014). Thus Fig. 3 shows that the Pelli font tests crowding, and the Sloan font does not, because the Pelli threshold spacing is conserved across size while the Sloan threshold is not. Thank you very much for insisting that we be clear. The Discussion should specify what is 6 mm in V1. Is this the diameter of the (circular) crowding zone? Good point. It’s radius, not diameter. 6 mm is the critical spacing, which is the radius of the crowding area, centered on the target (Pelli, 2008). At the visual field, the Bouma law tells us that threshold is linearly related to eccentricity. The logarithmic mapping of the cortical magnification factor (cortical position ∝ log eccentricity) results in a critical spacing on the surface of the cortex that is independent of eccentricity. In suggesting that the crowding is limited by the number of neurons/mm 2 in cortex, it should clarify that the number of neurons within a 6 mm diameter crowding zone would be roughly 1.5 million just in V1, and perhaps 5 million throughout the visual hierarchy. Is this the number that are expected to participate in the acuity performance? The critical spacing of crowding is 6 mm in V1 and 5 mm in V2 (Pelli, 2008). The density of cortical neurons is conserved, about 370,000/mm 2 in V1 and 150,000/mm 2 in the rest of cortex, across individuals and mammalian species (Rockel et al. 1980; Braitenberg Shz, 1998), so a circle in V1 with 6 mm radius encompasses 41,000,000 neurons. That is an upper bound on number of participating V1 neurons. For V2, the radius is 5 mm, and the neural density is lower, so the radius encompasses 12,000,000 neurons. The Discussion should reflect the studies of the Cavanagh on the attentional window hypothesis of crowding. Yes, will do. Freeman Pelli (2007) present a long discussion of He et al. (1996) and Intriligator Cavanagh (2001). Thank you. Denis Pelli Sarah Waugh on behalf of the authors, Denis Sarah References Braitenberg V, Schz A (1998). Cortex: Statistics and Geometry of Neuronal Connectivity . Edn 2. Heidelberg, Germany: Springer Verlag. Freeman, J., Pelli, D. G. (2007) An escape from crowding. Journal of Vision, 7(2):22, 1-14, doi:10.1167/7.2.22, http://journalofvision.org/7/2/22/ He, S. Cavanagh, P. Intriligator, J. (1996). Attentional resolution and the locus of visual awareness. Nature , 383, 334–337. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8848045 Intriligator, J., Cavanagh, P. (2001). The spatial resolution of visual attention. Cognitive Psychology , 43 (3), 171-216. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11689021 Levi, D. M., Klein, S. A., Aitsebaomo, A. P. (1985). Vernier acuity, crowding and cortical magnification. Vision Research , 25 (7), 963-977. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4049746 Pelli, D. G., Palomares, M., Majaj, N. J. (2004). Crowding is unlike ordinary masking: Distinguishing feature integration from detection. Journal of Vision, 4(12), 1136-1169, http://journalofvision.org/4/12/12/ Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A., Freeman, J., Su, M., Berger, T. D., Majaj, N. J. (2007) Crowding and eccentricity determine reading rate. Journal of Vision, 7(2):20, 1-36, doi:10.1167/7.2.20. http://journalofvision.org/7/2/20/ Pelli DG (2008) Crowding: a cortical constraint on object recognition. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 18(4): 445–451. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18835355?dopt=Citation Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. Nature Neuroscience, 11(10):1129 - 1135. doi: 10.1038/nn.2187 , http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v11/n10/index.html#pe Rockel AJ, Hiorns RW, Powell TP (1980) The basic uniformity in structure of the neocortex. Brain , 103:221-244. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6772266 View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Tyler C. Peer Review Report For: A clinical test for visual crowding [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :81 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8434.r11983) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1#referee-response-11983 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Wilkins A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 22 Jan 2016 | for Version 1 Arnold Wilkins , Department of Psychology, University of Essex, Colchester, UK 0 Views copyright © 2016 Wilkins A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Visual crowding is a poorly understood phenomenon, the neural origins of which are “hotly debated” 1 . It can occur at various levels in a perceptual hierarchy, including that of objects 1 . Information is not necessarily lost but can become misappropriated, and, perhaps in consequence, critical spacing differs across stimulus categories 2 . It is exaggerated in clinical cases to the extent that objects sometimes cannot be discerned unless presented singly in an uncluttered scene 3 . The authors of this paper clearly take the view that crowding is one thing rather than several. It may or may not be one thing, but this does not matter here. Pelli and co-authors present some very challenging ideas and data, together with techniques that have exciting potential in the clinic. The following are simply thoughts that have occurred to me on reading the report. They are not suggestions for alterations to the draft, with the exception of the list of items at the end. I have some reservations as to the use of highly contrasted spatially periodic material. We showed that single words and words in sentences are read by fluent readers about 10% more slowly when they have a high first peak in the horizontal autocorrelation of the image of the word. When the component strokes of the letters have a spatial periodicity, as in the word mum, the words are slower to read 4 . Jainta, Jaschinski and I showed that some of this slowing was due to the time taken for the eyes to re-establish vergence with minimum error following a saccade 5 . Similar considerations may apply to the use of periodic strokes in the Pelli font when the font is observed with both eyes. Some of the difficulty in reading the letters may be due to vergence correction. If so, monocular viewing may reduce the effects of the spatial periodicity relative to binocular viewing. One might expect the usual reduction in acuity with monocular viewing, but on this account the reduction might be less for the Pelli font because it compromises vergence? A second and related consideration concerns pattern glare. This term refers to the perceptual distortions and instability experienced by some observers on viewing spatially periodic arrays, in particular gratings with spatial frequency within one octave of 3 cycles/degree 6 . Such arrays would include those of similar letters presented across the page, as a result of both the letter strokes and the lines of letters, depending on scale. Perceptual distortions are usually accompanied by discomfort. Did observers report perceptual distortions, particularly instability (apparent movement) of the letters when presented in closely spaced arrays? If so, did they then have a higher threshold and report discomfort? If the Pelli font is to be used with children it would be nice to have data showing how readily (e.g. with what speed) they can name the digits 1-9 when presented in isolation, and how this changes with age. I suspect that digits in which a contour is represented as a filled square might be particularly difficult for young children to recognise. These digits include 4, 6, 8 and 9. Is it necessary to include these digits? Without them, the choice is 1 of 5, which is surely sufficient to be used in rapid clinical assessment. After all, most alphabetic charts use only a subset of the letters of the alphabet and this difference between the perceived set size and actual set size does not appear to present the problems that might be anticipated. As regards the particulars of the report: There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. All in all, this is a fascinating piece of original research, and I hope the promise of clinical use is borne out. I, for one, would like to know whether there is a relationship between pattern glare and crowding. If there is, it might be possible to bring together two disparate aspects of the literature, which would have useful theoretical spin-off. References 1. Chaney W, Fischer J, Whitney D: The hierarchical sparse selection model of visual crowding. Front Integr Neurosci . 2014; 8 : 73 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Whitney D, Levi DM: Visual crowding: a fundamental limit on conscious perception and object recognition. Trends Cogn Sci . 2011; 15 (4): 160-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract 4. Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, et al.: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract 5. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, et al.: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 16 Feb 2016 Denis Pelli, New York University, New York, USA Professor A J Wilkins Department of Psychology University of Essex Dear Arnold, Thanks very much for your quick and thoughtful review. We appreciate your work on how periodic structure impairs acuity and reading (Wilkins et al. 1989; Wilkins et al. 2007; Jainta et al., 2010). Yes, reducing periodicity might allow a reduction of the size or spacing limit. It's interesting that one of the most revered experts on type design, Gerrit Noordzij (1985/2005), professor of typeface design at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in The Hague, Netherlands, wrote that the best type has an even alternation of white and black, which seems to advocate optimizing font design by maximizing the same periodicity that your research recommends minimizing. We don’t yet have any reports of discomfort (Wilkins et al. 1984). We'll record such reports to correlate with results. Thanks. Our paper includes testing on two 8-year olds. Their time per trial and critical spacing were similar to those of the adults we tested. We will be collecting a lot more data on children, down to age 4. We'll keep track of which letters they have trouble with (time and accuracy), and, if necessary, we will adjust or drop (as you suggest) troublesome letters. We share your interest in individual differences in reading (Bouldoukian et al., 2002). In our study, Drs. Martelli (U. Rome Sapienza IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia), Waugh (Anglia Ruskin U.), and Rhodes (NYU) are testing school-age children, including many with dyslexia or amblyopia. Regarding your numbered points: 1. There is an infelicity somewhere in the sentence that currently reads: “That needed spacing grows linearly with eccentricity”. Yes, this would be better: "This critical spacing grows linearly with eccentricity” 2. Please could the unpublished report by Strappini et al be made available for download? We can't. It’s under review at another journal. F1000Research journal style designates this as an "unpublished report". We have sent you a copy privately. 3. Please could we have some numbers to support the statement that “We’ve had good results from this with the several children we have tested so far.” As noted above, we reported our results on two 8 year olds. We will be testing children in Cambridge (Waugh), New York (Rhodes), and Rome (Martelli). 4. Please could we have a citation or two to support the assertion that “Similarly, crowding has been linked to reading speed in children and in patients, so…” See Fig. 9 and associated discussion in Pelli, D. G., Tillman, K. A. (2008) The uncrowded window of object recognition. Nature Neuroscience , 11(10):1129 - 1135. doi: 10.1038/nn.2187 http://www.nature.com/neuro/journal/v11/n10/index.html#pe They cite: Kwon, M., Legge, G.E. Dubbels, B.R. Developmental changes in the visual span for reading. Vision Res . 47, 2889–2900 (2007). 5. The statement that “As in Regan’s chart, no matter where the observer’s eye lands on the screen, a target will be imaged on the observer’s fovea” seems a little optimistic without a word or two of additional explanation. This may help: “Because the screen is covered with letters less than 1 degree apart, no matter where the eye lands, at least one letter will be imaged in the observer’s 1 deg foveola.” ​Thank you. Denis, on behalf of my coauthors. References Bouldoukian, J., Wilkins, A. J., Evans, B. J. (2002). Randomised controlled trial of the effect of coloured overlays on the rate of reading of people with specific learning difficulties. Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics , 22 (1), 55-60. Jainta S, Jaschinski W, Wilkins AJ: Periodic letter strokes within a word affect fixation disparity during reading. J Vis . 2010; 10 (13): 2 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Noordzij G (1985/2005) The Stroke: Theory of Writing , Hyphen Press , London (published in Dutch in 1985, translated into English by Peter Enneson in 2005). http://uedata.amazon.com/The-Stroke-Writing-Gerrit-Noordzij/dp/0907259308 Wilkins AJ, Plant G, Huddy A: Neuropsychological principles applied to rehabilitation of a stroke patient. Lancet . 1989; 1 (8628): 54 PubMed Abstract Wilkins A, Nimmo-Smith I, Tait A, McManus C, Della Sala S, Tilley A, Arnold K, Barrie M, Scott S: A neurological basis for visual discomfort. Brain . 1984; 107 ( Pt 4) : 989-1017 PubMed Abstract Wilkins AJ, Smith J, Willison CK, Beare T, Boyd A, Hardy G, Mell L, Peach C, Harper S: Stripes within words affect reading. Perception . 2007; 36 (12): 1788-803 PubMed Abstract View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Wilkins A. Peer Review Report For: A clinical test for visual crowding [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :81 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8434.r11982) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1#referee-response-11982 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Click here to access the data. The problem Spreadsheet data files may not format correctly if your computer is using different default delimiters (symbols used to separate values into separate cells) - a spreadsheet created in one region is sometimes misinterpreted by computers in other regions. You can change the regional settings on your computer so that the spreadsheet can be interpreted correctly. How to fix it Save downloaded CSV file Open spreadsheet program (e.g. Excel) Click the tab at the top Click the From text icon (top left) Browse for downloaded CSV file, click Ensure radio button is selected, click Check one of the appropriate delimiter checkboxes (you can visualize the formatting by looking at the data preview below these options) Click Downloaded data do not display as expected? Download the data Dataset citation: Pelli DG, Waugh SJ, Martelli M et al. . Dataset 1 in: A clinical test for visual crowding. F1000Research 2016, 5 :81 (https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7835.d111930) Close Click here to access the data. The problem Spreadsheet data files may not format correctly if your computer is using different default delimiters (symbols used to separate values into separate cells) - a spreadsheet created in one region is sometimes misinterpreted by computers in other regions. You can change the regional settings on your computer so that the spreadsheet can be interpreted correctly. How to fix it Save downloaded CSV file Open spreadsheet program (e.g. Excel) Click the tab at the top Click the From text icon (top left) Browse for downloaded CSV file, click Ensure radio button is selected, click Check one of the appropriate delimiter checkboxes (you can visualize the formatting by looking at the data preview below these options) Click Downloaded data do not display as expected? Download the data Dataset citation: Pelli DG, Waugh SJ, Martelli M et al. . Dataset 2 in: A clinical test for visual crowding. F1000Research 2016, 5 :81 (https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7835.d111931) Close Click here to access the data. The problem Spreadsheet data files may not format correctly if your computer is using different default delimiters (symbols used to separate values into separate cells) - a spreadsheet created in one region is sometimes misinterpreted by computers in other regions. You can change the regional settings on your computer so that the spreadsheet can be interpreted correctly. How to fix it Save downloaded CSV file Open spreadsheet program (e.g. Excel) Click the tab at the top Click the From text icon (top left) Browse for downloaded CSV file, click Ensure radio button is selected, click Check one of the appropriate delimiter checkboxes (you can visualize the formatting by looking at the data preview below these options) Click Downloaded data do not display as expected? Download the data (0.93KB) Dataset citation: Pelli DG, Waugh SJ, Martelli M et al. . Dataset 3 in: A clinical test for visual crowding. F1000Research 2016, 5 :81 (https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7835.d111932) Close Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "A clinical test for visual crowding".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Pelli DG et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81",
 templates : {
 twitter : "A clinical test for visual crowding. Pelli DG et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-81/v1"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: A clinical test for visual crowding", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Method Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: A clinical test for visual crowding", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/7835/8434")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "8434");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "11979": 0,
 "11980": 0,
 "11981": 0,
 "11982": 58,
 "11983": 57,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "08bbbb3b-58d8-4706-8d44-cded023be141";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 