The authors tackle a very relevant question virtually all technology commercialization organizations at academic institutes have – what can they do to enhance translation of innovations developed at their organizations. In order to assess the current situation and provide some thoughts on approaches to ameliorate the challenges their colleague institutes have, the authors took a well reasoned, data intensive approach to examine a large set of information. The AUTM data is a valuable source of self-reported figures and a large amount of it was assessed to reach the presented conclusions. The design was appropriate and relevant to answer the hypotheses posed in this article. Further, a fairly robust statistical analysis was performed. Given the data is available (for purchased access) to any institute of higher learning, the analyses described in the paper can be readily replicated, and potentially expanded on, by any group that seeks to build on it. The conclusions drawn as a result of this assessment are supported by the data and provide multiple areas for practioners of technology transfer to examine further for implementation. I believe the manner in which the authors broke down the commercialization pipeline was sound and is a good model for others to use in assessing their own processes. The only suggestion I would offer is that universities are increasingly focusing on software licensing, as a result, not all translation will be of patented innovations but rather copyrights. As such, there may be additional information that can be garnered for these inventions. One additional area that may be interesting to include for the authors if they chose to eventually expand on the analysis beyond this submission is understanding the disparity of human resources at the AUTM schools to understand how much, if any, this specific infrastructure component is tied to commercialization activity and AUTM metrics. In conclusion, I enjoyed the opportunity to review this article and believe it adds to the literature on technology transfer. A significant amount of data was used to identify recommendations that align with opportunities most organizations can adopt. 