From a historical point it is of interest, that this publication is submitted from authors from Ghana. That is remarkable, as the topic deals with diabetes mellitus, a disease, mainly due to overnutrition and obesity, from a country, where Cecily Delphine Williams once worked and published in 1935 the key paper about ‘Kwashiorkor’, one of the most severe and deadly conditions due to undernutrition. This reflects the drastic change of public health problems over time, due to the ‘epidemiological transition’. The manuscript is also remarkable, in that it shows how possibly a community approach, might help to control diabetes mellitus. This is within the spirit of ‘primary health care’, applied to a non-communicable disease. The authors report how community health nurses, equipped with inexpensive, appropriate technical innovations, measure capillary blood glucose, assess the BMI, blood pressure and collect information about additional diseases. For the study qualitative and quantitative research methods were applied. The authors repeatedly point out, that one of the major intentions of the project was to study the possibility and feasibility of using community health nurses for working against diabetes mellitus. The paper, with major improvements, will be acceptable as far as solely the qualitative approach is followed in trying to meet the objective. From the point of view of epidemiology however, the quantitative approach is inadequate. To use the term ‘screening’ is seriously misleading (please see page 257 and 259 of Porta, 2014 1 ). To ‘introduce a piloted bias’ is an innovative euphemism by the authors and it seems, that they have their own doubts about a meaningful quantitative assessment based on groups of participants being too small and too heterogeneous. The authors might consider to change the now misleading title, to one which hints towards the objective of the publication more clearly. The last paragraph of the introduction should be revised and should mention the aims of conducting some sort of quality study. The methods and results sections might be combined. More inside information about the communities would be of benefit. Briefly mentioning the assumed knowledge of the participants about diabetes and the attitude towards the disease could help to estimate the usefulness of intervention. A short explanation how the community health worker fit into the overall health care for communities at the periphery of the overall health care system would be worthwhile as well. The section could be structured along the methods applied and for each method the usefulness, the acceptance of the participants within the communities, and the experience of the field worker could be described. In the discussion the overall experience gained of the project should be summarized in view of how an attempt to control diabetes mellitus in the communities in screening for new cases and caring for diseased patients would be helpful for further investigations and will be informative for local as well as national health workers and administrators. Additional points of interest would be to briefly mention the general dietary intake of the population and how this relates to overweight and diabetes. Last but not least, the question might be addressed on whether cut-off points for ‘normal’ and ‘not-normal’ glucose levels, as suggested internationally, are meaningful for Ghana, and what is the reaction of the authors to the recent suggestion to disregard ‘prediabetes’ as a diagnosis (see Piller, 2019 2 ). 