The author has provided have provided a provocative and timely review of the evidence related to pregnancy success. The author has focused on the evidence as he sees it from four different categories of review published in the last few decades. We think the title is appropriate and will attract attention and the abstract is generally well drafted but the final sentence ends rather abruptly. We suggest the author might wish to consider a more robust/informative ending to his abstract as this will be read alone in Pubmed. The following comments are provided in a spirit of trying to increase access to this article for a broader readership than might not be otherwise able to consider its contents, i.e. as currently written it seems largely to appeal to a people who might be interested in statistical analysis. Specifically we would like to see the author consider see how he might frame the evidence he provides alongside a timeline of the different stages of early pregnancy – this would mean individuals who are not well versed in reproductive function would be able to understand the arguments he is providing. We are pleased to see this article being written. We think it is timely, thought-provoking and this is an excellent moment in which to consider in realistic terms the kind of evidence that is constantly requoted in the debate about how fertile the human species is. Currently this topic is dominated by data from studies on women who are sub/infertile receiving medical support to achieve a pregnancy. Specific points Who is the audience for this paper and does the introduction set the scene in such a way that the reader will be both interested and motivated to read the remaining part of the paper, which I would like to see them do? I think as written the Introduction may not achieve this objective. For example the first sentence starts with some glib comments about it being ‘widely accepted’ that under natural circumstances human embryo mortality is high, and then there is an extensive section quoting number of popularist articles and websites – why have this up front? It seemed to undermine the erudite arguments of the rest of the paper. The second paragraph with some modification would make a sufficient introduction. The aim of the review as stated in the discussion ‘How many fertilized human embryos..?’ should also be frontloaded at some point here. Clearly embryo mortality is of interest to both reproductive biologists and fertility doctors but why not also mention couples trying to conceive? Reading the introduction we were struck by the pressing need for ’key terms’ box – the kind of thing you see in Nature papers – where there is a definition of each of the terms used, e.g. Fecundability, embryo, HCG, etc. If this paper is going to be read by individuals who are not fertility experts or experts in reproductive biology but people interested in ethics or chance or statistics, I think they will be very confused by the different terms that are used. What is not clear from the paper is the chronology of the observations/data being discussed. It is common for people (even those familiar with the field but who work on animal models) to be very confused by the timings in women. For example – the day on which fertilisation takes place versus the last menstrual period, e.g. fertilisation versus gestation versus the first day (depending on when you count from) on which you might reasonably expect to detect HCG in the urine. We would argue there needs to be a figure defining when each of these happens in terms of days in a woman's reproductive span. This could also help clarify the points in the process that the probabilities of π FERT, π CLIN etc can apply to. The second piece of information where we think it would be very helpful is under the section called 'What the data say' where the terms such as ‘old’ are added and there are no dates or refs provided. What do they mean by 'old' - pre 1960, pre 1950, pre 1940? Because the author has used numbered references, there is also no sense of the relationship of one study to another in terms of dates i.e. how they chronologically relate to each other. Some minor reworking in which the author says, for instance, "the work of Hertig and Rogg in the 1950’s" would be helpful. The author is also slightly confusing when talking about the pregnancy study (ref 42) not giving the names of the authors nor the date on which it was published in the section on page 4, and then in the reference, for instance in Fig 2, they talk about the pregnancy study ref 42 but in the figure it is shown as French and Bierman 1962. This is the kind of things that make it difficult to get a sense of the chronology of observations and how people have built on each other's observations in order to support subsequent studies, and this after all is one of the most crucial points of this paper. On page 6 we finally get to some discussion about modern pregnancy tests. It is not until some pages after that we know whether they are in blood or urine. Mid cycle elevation of HCG - this is not defined in terms of days (cf comments above). For information the fact that these assays were likely to be urine-based assays is not mentioned until page 7. We think many aspects of this paper are extremely well argued, very much so the data provided. The very great detailed analysis in Table 3 and also in other parts of page 7, and some very good points are made about the over-emphasis on using data from patient groups where infertility is probably one of the reasons for presentation that may have caused a less robust data set. The author makes a valid argument about potential subfertility within the Hertig cohort but this is not balanced. Equally, these women were selected for proven fecunditity and this factor affects interpretation of this cohort as much as the other. On page 10 the discussion starts with a key question how many fertilised human embryos die. It is slightly frustrating that this was not put up front as the question being addressed in this paper. Maybe the author might like to consider setting out aims more clearly. Again, in the discussion, many of the arguments being made would have been greatly enhanced by telling us the dates on which some of these studies were conducted. When looking at the reference list I see many of them were in the '80s and early '90s. We wonder if the first paragraph on page 12 might reasonably be eliminated - it feels repetitive compared to other parts of the paper. I think the discussion of the studies by Macklon review ref 20 is extremely insightful and useful. However we draw the author's attention to a more recent study by Macklon and Brosens which we believe puts forward some interesting arguments that might reasonably be discussed in his study about how the endometrium in which the embryos are set to implant might be acting as a ‘sensor’ of embryo quality. This is in Biology Reproduction 2014, vol 91. There is also a complementary paper in Sci Rep, vol 6, Brosens et al. 2014. The conclusion of the discussion seems more like a continuation of the critique of the final few paragraphs. It would be desirable to provide a concluding paragraph which holistically draws together the content of the review. Again the heavy use of quoting references as appears in the introduction masks the opportunity for the author to provide his own conclusions. In summary we welcome this review which we think makes many erudite comments on a difficult field.