The scientific study of consciousness is extremely difficult. Any serious attempt should therefore be regarded with a positively open mind. The intellectually challenging results of the present experiment, however, are unlikely to pertain to understanding the nature of qualia in the human brain. They rather seem to hint at a social cognition effect. Design The data consist in the average amplitude from 600 to 900 ms post stimulus onset of event related potentials (ERP) to complex stimuli selected as most striking pictures from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS). EEG recordings were obtained from dyads of socially related participants, simultaneously presented on separate halves of the same screen with a picture that could not be seen by the other participant, even though they were seated side by side and could see each other in the periphery of their visual field. Each participant had to observe the pictures in order to recognise them in a later memory test. Four different ERP conditions are compared, each consisting of the average of 70 stimuli (minus occasional artefacts at some channels) obtained from the same block. Two of the blocks were introduced to the two participants to consist of identical stimuli simultaneously presented to each of them, and the remaining two blocks were announced to consist of different sets of pictures. In each pair of conditions, this initial announcement was faithful once and contrary to the actual situation the other time. This allowed analyzing the situation in a 2 x 2 design of Sameness (Identical versus different pairs actually presented) by Belief (believing that the partner was presented with same versus different stimuli). The recordings, in each participant, were from 28 channels, referred to right ear lobe, not including any EOG dedicated channels. Each picture was presented for 1.0 s with a mean expected inter stimulus interval just below 1.15 s. Therefore, each of the four stimulus block lasted only about 2.5 minutes. The following simultaneous testing phase of the two participants required 28 minutes (280 targets + 280 new items each presented for 3.0 s). Although the rationale for the study considers qualia and the possibility of common brain signatures, the averaging over different stimuli in the same condition restricts considerably the relevance of the data to the original question of the nature of the qualia and of their physical support in the brain. The authors actually need to extend the concept of qualia to include the knowledge of whether the other person in the dyad is supposed to receive identical or different stimuli, which is very unlikely the dominant subjective experience (qualia) produced by any stimulus. The data are therefore much more likely to pertain to social cognition than to the intended exploration of a physiological substrate for the qualia. Actually, for features of visual perception that do not play a role in the task (for instance by being rare versus frequent events or relevant versus irrelevant), the ERP differences are likely to be idiosyncratic, requiring special statistical technique to detect differences that take different forms in different brains (e.g. Buchsbaum and Fedio, 1969 , 1970 , for the ERP difference between geometrical patterns and three letter words made of the same number of dots). ERP results. Visual inspection of the averages shows that the ERP were negative, relative to the 200 ms baseline, for the full duration of the stimuli in all four conditions for all 12 channels anterior to Cz, and were entirely positive in 6 of the seven posterior channels, at the level of, or posterior to Pz, excluding Pz itself which is mostly negative up to about 400 ms and positive thereafter in all four conditions. Despite the large anterior-posterior inversion in overall ERP polarity, the amplitude differences between conditions remain constant in polarity across all channels. The differences in condition are most marked between the two Believe Different conditions, with the Actually Same condition (SBd) being positive relative to the Actually Different condition (DBd). In the right hemisphere and posteriorly in the left hemisphere, the two Believe Same conditions (Actually Same and Actually Different, respectively SBs and DBs) were of intermediate amplitudes. In the frontal half of the left hemisphere, however, the ERP to the two Believe Same conditions overlap substantially with those of SBd, all three being less negative than DBd. The lack of inversion of the condition differences suggests that the underlying dominant effect is unlikely a simple modulation of the dominant sources of these ERP. The left frontal distinction from the remaining ordering of conditions could indicate the presence of at least two sources modulated by the experimental conditions. Although the data were analyzed with Belief and Sameness as factors, according to the experimental plan, it is relevant to decide whether the conditions SBs, SBd and DBs differ among themselves. Since the data are available, these could be tested. The following table gives the p value of all effects involving the three level Condition factor (DBd being excluded). effect Electrode group Sagittal Para sagittal Lateral Cond .774 .699 .863 Cond x Hem .353 .228 Cond x Elect .208 .128 .489 Cond x Hem x Elect .066 .131 Thus, even without correcting for these 10 tests involving Condition, there is no indication of any difference in this group of three conditions. Since there was no condition in which the participants were alone, it cannot be decided empirically whether the effect of watching stimuli in dyads affects essentially the DBd condition or the remaining three conditions. The operational hypothesis that DBd would have a minimal impact on the ERPs implies that the topography in that condition is essentially that of the background activity. Since the background activity inverses polarity from front to back, this should also occur in the DBd condition. Since it does not, it becomes difficult to consider de facto DBd as the baseline no-effect condition. It could well be that DBd is the only condition that expresses the social cognition effect apparently present in the data. Although ad hoc , the following explanation may be proposed for the present data in terms of social cognition. In the DBd condition, each partner might be interested in whether the other person is presented with a similar amount of emotion. This would also be so at the beginning of the SBd condition, but the impression would rapidly build that the stimuli, although believed different, would be matched for emotion and therefore this interest in the amount of emotion felt by the other person could fade. This would account for the SDd-DBd difference being the most reliably detected. For the two Believe Same conditions, each partner would not doubt that the other person receives the same amount of emotion, resulting in no difference between these conditions. Correlations The result section also includes correlations calculated for P600 amplitude differences between conditions. These are reported, in Table 4, only for the conditions that were the most different from each other, namely, SBd-DBd and DBs-SBs. This justification seems incorrect, given the above table showing no detected difference between SBd, DBs and SBs, and since additional tests of the latter pair does not show any difference at any channel (all p=.073). Reproducing the scatter plots of Figure 7 confirms that only 14 intact dyads were actually retained (an odd numbered participant followed by the next even number in the data base provided; the rationale for rejecting some participants should have been expressed). The situation, however calls for using the intra class correlation coefficient (ICC) in which no distinction is made as to which member should be A and which should be B, and for which only the common sample mean and common sample variance are used, resulting in one extra degree of freedom for the test, since only one mean is fitted to the data. When ICC are calculated, the following can be obtained (the sign after the channel name duplicates that of the correlation). ICC in SBd - DBd : 4 channels with p.05 9 r=-0.5674 t(13)=-2.4843 p=0.0274* F8- 17 r=-0.5438 t(13)=-2.3363 p=0.0361* Fz- 20 r=-0.6196 t(13)=-2.8462 p=0.0138* P3- 22 r=-0.6207 t(13)=-2.8545 p=0.0135* Pz- ICC in ICC in DBs - DBd : no channel with p.05 ICC in ICC in SBs - DBd : no channel with p.05 ICC in SBd - SBs : 1 channel with p.05 21 r= 0.6947 t(13)=3.4823 p=0.0040** P4+ ICC in SBs - DBs : 3 channels with p.05 18 r= 0.5142 t(13)= 2.1617 p=0.0499* O1+ 19 r= 0.5305 t(13)= 2.2562 p=0.0419* O2+ 21 r= 0.6208 t(13)= 2.8551 p=0.0135* P4+ The other condition differences were not tested. Note that 8/140 (perhaps not independent) correlations tested have p.05, while 7/140 is expected for independent statistical tests when H0 is true. The critical value of p, with a Bonferroni correction (for 140 independent tests) would be .0018, not reached by any of the 140 tests. Besides the possibility of there being no true correlation between the dyad members, the negative correlations between the dyad members, observed for the SBd-DBd difference, are counterintuitive. One could call upon disentanglement in which collapsing of the wave function for a particle causes the collapse of the complementary state, even at great distances. But here we have negative correlations on average amplitude differences. The quantum physics speculation not only would dispose of the phenomenon, assuming it is not a statistical accident, as being apparently explained, but this would require further ad hoc speculations to explain that the wave function would systematically collapse in the same way in the same person in the given test situation. If there is a true phenomenon to understand, we should start by questioning whether the negative correlations are mostly associated with SBd or with DBd. Note that since the same variable is used for both members of the dyads, changing its sign would not alter the direction of the correlation. It is unlikely that DBd is the source of the negative correlations since no significant (p.05) correlation is seen in any other difference involving DBd. But the source of the negative correlation is not likely to be SBd either since the other tested difference involving SBd does not replicate the negative correlations. While the negative correlations for SBd-DBd were significant (p.02) at P3 and Pz, it is a positive correlation that is significant (p.01) at P4 for SBd-SBs. Since P4 also gives a significant (p.02) positive correlation for SBs-DBs, the positive correlation for SBd-SBs is more likely attributable to SBs than to SBd (which was involved in the negative correlation). Setting aside the problem of ascribing the negative correlation to one of the involved experimental conditions, some important insight about social cognition could come from trying to identify the characteristics which defines which member of a dyad would produce a large or positive difference between conditions and which one would produce small or negative differences. Could this, for instance, characterize an implicit cognitive domination-submission attitude? But whether any of these correlations reflects a true correlation remains to be established first. The above discussion casts serious doubts on this. Technical details In reporting the behavioral data in Table 5, the misses do not need to be reported, as they should be 70 minus the number of hits (not exactly so here probably because of rounding errors), but the false alarm rate for the 280 new pictures should be added to allow estimating the amount of guessing. In Figure 2, it is not clear to what the 20 cm distance applies. It would be relevant, however to know how far apart from each other were the participants and at what distance from the screen were their eyes, so we can appreciate how much they could see of each other. Instead of the first and last half of participants, Figures 5 and 6 could provide the means form the participants on the left and those on the right (even though they are not the same in number), so that any tendency to gaze at the other person at some systematic time after stimulus delivery would be reflected by opposite shifts at F7 and F8. From the data available, there is no systematic group difference if F8-F7 in any or the four conditions, but that tells nothing of the 0-600 ms interval. If systematic correlations existed between dyad members, the independence of participants in the ANOVA would not be achieved, so that the degrees of freedom would actually be inflated. This possible bias could be acknowledged, even though the presence of correlations is not very convincing. On page 6: the statement electrodes for which amplitude exceeded +/- 100 mV were discarded would need clarification about the period of time in which this would be observed, since event exclusion was done channel by channel. Is that in the -200 to +1200 ms interval of an event? In Figures 3, 5, and 6, the downward notch at the end of most tracings seems to be an artefact of filtering the average ERP. If these notches are artefacts, rather that brain responses, this should be explained. The legend of Figure 4 gives the interval of interest as 600-1000 ms instead of 600-900 ms. On page 11 in the Dataset box, remove 