The manuscript by Maria de Mar Ortega-Villaizan Romo provides evidence that trout red blood cells can express antiviral mechanisms. The discovery is very intriguing, as red blood cells appear to have addition functions beyond carry gases, and this might open up new ways to enhance fish health. Therefore, I recommend indexing. As documented below, I do have many minor suggestions for improving the clarity and aesthetics of the manuscript. ABSTRACT Background Remove “highly” I suggest “However, the roles of RBCs in birnavirus….” Methods: Remove “induced” Results : Remove “-exposed RBCs” Conclusions : I suggest recasting a few sentences as shown below. “Despite not being infected, trout RBCs respond to IPNV with increased expression of antiviral genes.” In the last sentence, I suggest “that triggers this antiviral response in trout RBCs” INTRODUCTION 1 st paragraph 2 nd line remove “Among all of the viral diseases,” It sounds awkward and the point being made is made again in the 4 th paragraph. 2 nd paragraph Remove “This implies that nucleated RBCs can support viral replication.” Over 40 years ago, enucleated cells were shown to support replication of some viruses 1 . Therefore, having a nucleus in RBCs might have nothing to do with their capacity to support the replication of some viruses. For example, human RBCs might also have roles in viral infections. Therefore, the first 2 sentences of this paragraph could be eliminated and the next sentence, after removing “for example”, would become the topic sentence. 3 rd paragraph Remove the sentence that begins “Recently, it has been shown that viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV) can induce ….” I don’t see how it fits the subject of the paragraph or point out in the sentence that RBCs as well as stromal cells were studied. 4 th paragraph recast the last 2 sentences “However, we report that even though not infecting RBCs, IPNV induces in them the expression of antiviral genes in the INF-1 pathway.” I am not sure that I would emphasize so strongly “protection against IPNV infection in CHSE-214 cells”. This appears to be based on the 1/5 bar in Figure 3A. I would like to have seen if protection also arose from 1 to 3 supernatant dilution or 1 to 10 supernatant dilution. If either one or both of these dilutions did protect, it would strongly indicate that protection can be repeatability demonstrated. METHODS Animals Space between 1 and fish. Space after Spain) RBC purification Was no anticoagulant used in the collection of the blood? Please clarify. Would thrombocytes be present among the RBCs? In the 3 rd last sentence I wonder if something should follow the 2%. RPMI with 2 % FBS? This also comes in the next section. Maybe define it here as RPMI with 2 % FBS (RPMI/FBS) and use in RPMI/FBS in subsequent section. Viral infection assays No need to repeat Oncorhynchus mykiss here as the genus species name are mentioned earlier. In the 2 nd last sentence, I believe that the RPMI was “removed” rather than “retired”. Were RBC infected at 14 C like CHSE-214 were? Viral titration assay In the first sentence, “supernatants were quantified by TCID50 and by RT-qPCR.” RNA isolation and DNAse treatment no suggestions Gene expression by RT-qPCR “synthesized” Antibodies I suggest the following topic sentence for this section. “Several antibodies were used to stain cells for cytokines and to measure polypeptides in RBC extracts by western blotting and they are briefly described below and their Research Resource Identifiers (RRIDs) given.” Western blot no suggestions Intracellular immunofluorescence staining and flow cytometry no suggestions Antiviral activity of conditioned medium Would not the conditioned medium (CM) have virus that had not bound to RBC and thus not pelleted at 1600 rpm and so was in the CM? Please briefly discuss. Is ‘staining’ rather than “stain” meant in the following sentence and the next heading? “Finally, intracellular stain of IPNV foci was carried out.” Intracellular stain of IPNV foci Add to the end of the 3 rd sentence “for 1 hour with the cells”. MTT assays At the end of this section, a statement of how the absorbance readings are converted to percent viability should be given. I know that it is mentioned in the legend for Figure 3. Software and statistics I suggest the following modification to the 2 nd sentence. “was used for preparing graphs and preforming statistical calculations”. Ethics approval no suggestions RESULTS IPNV did not infect trout RBCs I suggest the following recasting of the last sentence and addition of a new last sentence. “Moreover, flow cytometry analysis of control and IPNV-exposed RBCs for IPNV VP3 protein did not show significant differences (Figure 1C and D). Therefore, IPNV did not infect trout RBCs.” IPNV exposure increased the expression of interferon-related antiviral immune genes and proteins in RBCs The first sentence should be shortened as follows “to determine if IPNV would induce an antiviral response in RBCs.” Are there antiviral genes that are not immune genes? In other words, can the description be simplified to just ‘antivrial genes”? DISCUSSION 2 nd paragraph The last two sentences could refer to the data of the ms for support. 4 th paragraph I wonder if the authors could briefly discuss the apparent constitutive expression of Mx in RBCs as seen in Panel D of Figure 2. Also could Mx be released from RBCs? In cattle Mx1 is found in exosomes (see Racicot K et al., 2012, Am J Reprod Immunol) and exosomes can be released by RBCs (see Danesh A et al., 2014, Blood). FIGURES AND LEGENDS Figure 1 In panel A write out hpe on the X axis. Figure 2 Is the staining in the control of interest or just background? I mentioned this earlier under the Discussion. Could any of the cells in panel D be thrombocytes? Figure 3 Could FFU be written out here in the legend so figure stands alone? The legend mentions doing a two-way ANOVA but no mention of a post test is given, although the 1/5 supernatant dilution is identified with an asterisk? Figure 4 Title legend has a spelling mistake and is a bit misleading because panel B is not covered by the current title. I suggest the following title. “Reduction in RBC cytokine levels by IPNV and a possible mechanism” The legend should give more information so the figure can better stand by itself. Write out MFI (Mean Fluorescence Intensity) and FC (Flow Cytometry). At two places in the legend, mention is made of the Mann-Whitney test but the outcome is not clearly stated. 