Systemic mastocytosis as one form of systemic mast cell activation disease usually is an incurable disease, which due to patient-specific genetic and/or epigenetic alterations requires a highly personalized therapy to mitigate consequences of mast cell proliferation and/or inflammatory activation. This also implies that a few patients might profit from a therapy, which usually is referred to as noneffective for the majority of patients. Therefore, for the practitioner the publication of such rare cases is important to allow for a potentially effective, though unusual therapy option. The present case report by Molderings et al. offers a detailed description of a patient with aggressive systemic mastocytosis treated with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sunitinib as well as an objective statement about pros and cons of the treatment. Moreover, this case report offers important background knowledge on the current classification of primary mastocytosis (Suppl. Table S1), a list of C-findings = indications of impaired organ function due to mast cell infiltration defining a systemic mastocytosis as an aggressive systemic mastocytosis (Suppl. Table S2), and the WHO 2008 diagnostic criteria for systemic mastocytosis (Sull. Table S3). These enable the reader to access this information important for the comprehension of this case report without obtaining the original literature. The reviewer suggests the following changes/additions: a) In the description of the TKI sunitinib, the publication by Todd et al (Todd JR, Becker TM, Kefford RF, Rizos H. Secondary c-Kit mutations confer acquired resistance to RTK inhibitors in c-Kit mutant melanoma cells. Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2013; 26: 518-526) should be added. It describes a melanoma cell subline with an additional T670I mutation in c-Kit, which shows resistance to the TKIs imatinib, nilotinib, and dasatinib, but responds to sunitinib. b) In Suppl. Table S3 (minor Criteria), the sentence “3. Activating KIT mutation at codon 816 in in marrow, blood, or extracutaneous organ(s)“ should be changed to “3. Activating KIT mutation at codon 816 in marrow, blood, or extracutaneous organ(s)“ 