I reviewed the Version 4 revision for the Peter et al . submission following review of versions 1 and 2. The present narrative is dramatically improved overall in the detail given on child outcomes and, generally, on limitations and caveats of the present pilot study. My major concerns in my earlier reviews were first, that there were no measures of parent training fidelity and second, the status of the typically developing cohort was imprecise. Relative to the issue of parent training, the author’s rationale for their present focus on measuring child variables was much stronger. However, because this large study is poised to be of great value to researchers and clinicians focused on the earliest stages of pre-linguistic development in high risk populations, I would like to point out an issue that could make this study a stronger contributor to the parent training literature. In the Materials and Procedures section (final paragraph), the authors expand their description of “parent fidelity in carrying out routines” by detailing a number of legitimate frequency- based metrics of evaluation of parent behaviors (i.e., “how frequently they engaged in the activities/routines during the preceding week”, ..…."percent SLP sessions attended, percent weekly home videos submitted, and percent monthly audio recordings provided”). These process-based metrics are excellent, but I feel that the authors, in the main body of their study could push further into the content-based quantification of the parent-child interactions to collect data on the actual interactions themselves between the parents and their children, not only the frequency metrics (noted above). These kinds of content-based quantifications could be invaluable to researchers and clinicians in this area. By content, I am indicating counting dyadically-based behaviors such as the following: increase in maturity of vocalizations following modeling by the parent; see Stoel-Gammon or Oller measures of vocalization maturity; parental use of parallel talk or expansions; dyadic balance of turn taking; dyadic balance in maintenance of eye contact. These content-based behaviors are intended as examples, not an exhaustive list, but all are based on available research into earliest periods of typical infant development of pre-linguistic vocal capacities. They enable the researcher to specify how the parents accomplished their dyadic interactions not only the frequency of compliance with study design requirements. In short, I am urging the research team to expand their quantification from frequency-based metrics into content-based metrics, potentially to identify more closely potential aspects of parent behaviors that might map onto successful or less successful outcomes in their larger child cohort followed in the larger study. Relative to the issue of the typically developing child cohort, the authors did an adequate job of outlining caveats to their comparison cohort relative to the length (i.e. 5 minutes versus 30-60 minutes) and types of data (i.e. highest volubility samples versus functional use samples) selected for typical development comparison samples. I would like to see an ongoing attention to this issue in the larger study. Overall, the revisions completed are adequate to index the pilot data for an ongoing larger research study. My present comments are intended to support use of this pilot data to consider expansions into parent-child dyadic interactions in this critical formative period.