Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting paper by Geldsetzer et al. The authors conducted a cross-sectional, mixed-methods study examining the performance of Swaziland’s RHM programme. The study had two underlying objectives (i) to assess the performance of the RHM programme, using the CHW Performance Logic Model, and (ii) to identify ways in which performance could be improved. Overall, this is a well-written paper with many strengths including an impressive sample of 2000 households, representative of two of Swaziland’s four administrative regions, and a further 25 semi structured interviews. However, the paper would benefit from a number of important revisions, especially pertaining to a clear definition of performance, the methodological approaches used to define and measure this, and more rigorous analytical approaches in order to adequately address the study’s objectives. Suggested Revisions Introduction While evaluating Swaziland’s RHM program is a worthy endeavour, I would argue that it is unfair to state that ‘many [of the] large programs that have existing for decades have not yet been rigorously evaluated’ (p.3) as the rationale for the current study. For example, there have been a number of evaluations of Ethiopia’s CHEW programme 1 and Pakistan’s LHW programme 2 . Many of these studies also arguably employ more rigorous evaluation approaches than the current study. It is probably sufficient to say that no evaluations of the RHM in Swaziland have taken place to date, and if RHMs are expected to contribute to achieving 90-90-90, then a better understanding of the programme’s progress is required. More detail is required on the RHM programme in general. Are the RHMs remunerated? If so, who pays them? If not, what non-financial incentives are in place for them, if any? Who supervises them? Are they affiliated with a health centre? Are they trained? If so, for how long? Are they predominantly women? Are they recognised as part of the formal health system? Additional background on the context of Swaziland, specifically as it relates to their lack of human resources for health, and their need to task shift/share, would also improve the introduction and offer more context for the reader. A clearer rationale for the importance of assessing performance of CHWs is required. Performance of health workers is a difficult construct to define, and there would be large variation in the literature in terms of how performance is (i) defined and (ii) measured. The paper would benefit greatly from engaging with this literature. Specifically, the paper should engage the literature examining the relationship between job satisfaction, motivation, intention to leave, etc. and performance, in order to build justification for the inclusion of these variables within the questionnaire design. Did the authors consider other frameworks? If so, why was the CHW Performance Logic Model chosen as the framework for this study? A stronger rationale for why this framework was chosen is required as this model does not measure performance per se, but rather puts forward a theoretical pathway towards performance. What evidence is there to suggest that this model is valid (i.e. predictive validity) in terms of predicting CHW performance? This is also methodological decision and does not belong in the Introduction. Methods Study Setting Clarify why Lubombo and Manzini were chosen as the two study areas. Was this random selection? If not, how were these two chosen? Is there any reason to believe that differences might exist between these two areas? What percentage of Swaziland’s population resides within these two areas? Who operates the other CHW programmes in Swaziland? While the authors specify that each have a workforce of less than 50CHWs, how many CHWs in Swaziland are part of other programmes (i.e. not RHMs)? If you have the data for these, why not include these and control for ‘CHW programme’ in your analysis? No need to repeat that the RHM programme was established in 1976 and employs 5000 RHMs again here, as it is already in the introduction. Study Design Materials Clearly state that this study uses a cross-sectional, mixed-methods design. As above, a clearer operational definition of what is meant by ‘performance’ is needed. What is meant by high or good performance here? How was ‘performance’ defined and measured for the purpose of this study? Why, for example, not include indicators that are aligned to the activities outlined under the RHM program section of the introduction (page 2 para 5)? It seems only fair that performance of the RHMs should, at least in part, be measured against those activities and tasks they are expected to complete. This is a major element missing from this study. A much more detailed description of the study tools are required. As it stands, it is difficult to evaluate the validity of the scales used without knowing the details of how the survey employed during data collection was designed. For example, have the ‘job satisfaction’, ‘social support’, ‘supervision’, and ‘motivation’ items used in the RHM questionnaire (Part 12 and Part 13, respectively) been used in other studies? If so, which ones? Have these scales been validated? According to these validation studies, how are they meant to be coded/scored? Some of the items under Part 13 do not seem to be measuring motivation (i.e. lack face validity). For example, items 13.8 13.9 seem to more so be measuring conscientiousness at work, than motivation. Sampling It would be quite unlikely in an entirely random sample to have the same number of rural (n=37) and urban (n=13) EAs in each region. Especially since the study setting section describes Manzini as comparatively more urban and wealthy than Lubombo. What is the rationale for interviewing family members aged 11 years or older? Also, one would expect that those over the age of 18 would provide written consent, but those between 11-17 would provide assent, provided parental consent. Please clarify whether this was the case. On page 4, first paragraph, please clarify the sampling for the SSIs. The authors state that 13 RHMs from Manzini and 12 from Lubombo were selected, but then go on to specify that 13 were from rural and 12 were from urban areas, in each region . Were there 50 SSIs in total? Data Analysis The quantitative data analysis is rather superficial (i.e. descriptive), and unfortunately, does not exploit the richness of the dataset. Why were inferential statistics not employed to look at correlations between certain factors that are known to predict performance (i.e. job satisfaction, motivation at work, supportive supervision) and performance (however this is defined here)? Regression methods, with ‘performance’ as the dependent variable, could be used to more rigorously assess variables that are associated with performance, and are aligned with addressing the second objective of your study: (ii) identify ways in which performance could be improved. The logic here being that improvements made to these factors could result in corresponding changes ‘performance’. Moreover, you would be able to control for differences across Lubombo and Manzini, CHW programes etc. How were scores calculated? For example, on what basis was it decided that anyone who scored below 8/10 on the Likert scale should not be classified as ‘satisfied with the services provided by the RHMs in their community’? Why recode the answers into dichotomous variables, instead of using the mean score? These methodological decisions need to be justified/described in much greater detail. How was missing data treated? The qualitative data analysis, given the use of a comprehensive interview guide, with broadly pre-determined themes (i.e. the dimensions of the CHW Performance Logic Model), strikes me as having been analysed using more deductive, rather than inductive approaches. More detail is required as to how you: ‘conducted iterative reviews’ and ‘further refined themes’ and established ‘their relationship to each other’. As it stands, the qualitative description of the analysis is insufficient to ensure replicability. Results The results in part read like a report against a logframe or results-based framework than a research paper. As above, the lack of clarity around how dichotomous categories were recoded from the Likert scale makes the results difficult to interpret. In line with the above comment on inductive vs. deductive approaches, I’m not convinced that HHs approaching RHMs was ‘rare or infrequent’ (pg 6, para 2) is an emerging theme or topic, when the question asked was “How often are you contacted for help or advice?”. Figure 2 is not very telling. Instead of presenting as a histogram, consider presenting as mean scores for ‘satisfaction’ across the various items in the HH questionnaire, with the Likert Scale range of scores presented on the y-axis. “Inputs” section is odd here and should form part of the narrative describing the RHM programme in the introduction. RHM salaries in Table 5 should also be reported in USD to give the reader some idea of what this figure represents. Overall, I’m not convinced that the results presented are sufficient to answer the research objectives (i) to assess the performance of the RHM programme and (ii) to identify ways in which performance could be improved. The results could however, shed some light on how the RHM programme is faring in terms of known determinants of performance. Discussion While every programme has room for improvement, I would argue that the results presented are not only suggestive of ‘a number of weaknesses in the RHM’ programme. Sure, resource mobilization and poor pay are an issue (as they are in most places!), but overall, the evidence also suggests a programme that has maintained high community support, a high level of quality training, frequent and supportive levels of supervision from the health facilities, and relatively low levels of people who were thinking of leaving their job. These are all worthy accomplishments for a health programme where resources are extremely limited. Moreover, these are all factors that the literature would strongly suggest are important in predicting health worker performance. While I understand that this type of narrative is what keeps foreign aid funding flowing into programmes, our responsibility as researchers is to present the evidence as objectively as possible. Here, the evidence provided is quite strong for many successful elements of the RHM programme, and these should be discussed too. Page 10 para 1: “overall, improving the performance of the RHM cadre may be necessary to successfully shift HIV care tasks from facility-based to RHM-led care” seems like an over-interpretation of findings. The evidence presented more so suggests that adequate compensation and more material resources are likely necessary before asking RHMs to take on yet another task within the health system. The evidence presented offers some insight into why RHMs may not be meeting their HH targets (having to return to homes more than once if a family is absent, attitudes towards HRMs). This should be discussed accordingly as the reason for this observation does not appear to lie solely with the RHM. The breakdown of income earning on page 10 is interesting, but would be better suited to a description of the RHM programme in the literature review. Page 10, para 2: “Our assessment of the RHM program…provides some insight into factors that might be lowering RHM performance”. There is no evidence presented to suggest that ‘performance’ decreased in any way. Please rephrase. Page 10 para 2: “a theme arising from our qualitative interviews, however, was that RHMs view themselves as volunteers rather than…”. I did not see this evidence presented in the results of the paper. Generally speaking, new results should not be presented in the discussion. Limitations: I disagree that many of the performance-related factors assessed under the CHW Performance Logic Model lack established measures and scales. The I/O psychology literature for example, contains a number of well-developed, cross-culturally validated scales of social support, motivation at work, job satisfaction, etc. scales. Conclusion Regarding the statement that, “the evaluation found that the RHM program does not meet some of its performance targets”: Are RHMs really intended to act as the first point of care in this context? Other than not visiting with all 25-30 households on a monthly basis, what other performance target(s) does this statement refer to? Other (including Figures Tables) 2 nd para, page 4, there is no need to explain in text what the contributions of each author were. There should be an ‘Author Contributions’ section which allows for this. 