This short article examines variation in GC content and recombination in two different sets of genes, across nineteen Campylobacter jejuni genomes. After reading the abstract several times, I'm still not sure exactly what hypothesis is being tested here. I am confused by the first sentence in the abstract, which states that C. jejuni is 'rapidly evolving' and has 'massive genetic recombination potential'. Compared to what? Certainly compared to a virus, C. jejuni is quite slowly evolving. Further, it seems from the larger picture of whole genome comparison, there is not THAT much difference within the C. jejuni genomes, compared to say for example E. coli , which can be three to four times the size of C. jejuni , and has a very large pan-genome - about ten times the size of any individual E. coli genome. Several years ago, based on a smaller set of genomes, we found that the C. jejuni genome was much less 'open' than the E. coli genome. (see PMID 19691844 ). I had to read and re-read the first paragraph of the Introduction section many times. Going through just that first paragraph: " Molecular events such as mutation, deletion, recombination and gene transfer play paramount roles in shaping the evolution of prokaryotes (reviewed by 1,2 ) ." I'm curious as to what exactly a 'molecular event' is? I would think that most molecular biologists are 'atomists' that is, they think in terms of biochemistry. Is there an alternative, perhaps vitalism or some supernatural event that is an alternative to a 'molecular event'. What is the difference between 'mutation' and 'deletion'? Would a 'deletion' not be considered a subset of 'mutation'? And what is meant by 'recombination'? Is this different to 'mutation'? " As a consequence the genomes are more prone for nucleotide base compositional fluctuations. " The [prokaryotes] are MORE prone than what? Viruses? Eukaryotes? Not sure what is being referred to here. Are the authors saying that mutations, deletions, recombination, gene transfer happen more often in bacteria than in eukaryotes? Or PERHAPS the fact that, because bacterial genomes tend to be more coding-rich (80% or more of the genome codes for proteins), then variations in the third codon position might allow genomes to become more AT rich or GC rich?? " Particularly, the evolutionary forces pose a major impact on the guanine-cytosine (GC) content of bacteria at the level of genes and genomes 3 . Amongst all the important evolutionary forces, the impact of recombination (homologous, non-homologous or illegitimate) on the evolution of bacteria has been evidenced as the major driving force or factor of microevolution 4–8 . " So recombination is driving the changes in GC content? How does that work exactly? Or perhaps the authors here are talking about something other than differences in GC content? If so, this could be elaborated. " However, the rate of recombination may differ greatly amongst different bacterial species; while some species recombine more frequently to have multiple recombination events than mutations that render them weakly clonal, whereas in other species it appears to be a rare incident leading to distinct clonal lineages 5,6,8,9 . " And where does Campylobacter fit on this scale? Is there more variation, more recombination, or less? And, once again, perhaps it would be nice for the authors to mention that Campylobacter is very AT rich. " Studies of genetic diversity in the bacterial kingdom have shown that bacteria form clusters of genetically related strains and that extensive recombination among related clusters have been regarded as normal rather than exceptional events10. However, not every single gene is involved in recombination or horizontal gene transfer 11,12 . " This is comforting perhaps, but an indication of the fraction of genes undergoing recombination in Campylobacter would be good… In the Methods section, the NCBI refseq number is given, rather than a true 'GenBank accession number', which for the C. jejuni genome is AL111168. The methods section states that the genomes were downloaded from GenBank - but it appears that perhaps NCBI RefSeq was used instead. RefSeq is a somewhat curated database, with different gene annotations (and hence there could be different gene lengths which might give different %GC contents) - so it is very important to clearly state WHICH database was actually used here. The INSDC accession numbers are shared between GenBank, EMBL, and the DNA DataBase of Japan (DDBJ). To be honest, I really do not see that large of a difference between the variation in %GC in the housekeeping genes vs. information genes. I think a simple box and whiskers plot, showing the genome distribution, compared to the distribution for the housekeeping vs. information genes is the best way to visualise and compare the three distributions. I suspect that there's not that much of a difference here. (Which by the way, I looked through the manuscript several times - nowhere could I find a mention or even brief discussion that C. jejuni is quite AT rich, compared to other bacterial genomes). The conclusion, that the information genes have less recombination than the housekeeping genes is perhaps not surprising, but I'm not sure how 'recombination' is measured here - the authors refer to a computer program which was used to measure recombination in HIV sequences, with high rates of changes. However, applying this model to something like Campylobacte r , where the variation is extremely low (compared to HIV certainly). So if there is a single nucleotide difference, is this called a 'recombination event'? Are SNPs recombination events? Maybe sometimes? In summary, I find this short paper would reflect a nice student project, done as part of a course. It is a good exercise to write up what has been done, but I'm still missing the hypothesis that is being tested, the anticipated results, and what sorts of results would falsify the hypothesis. Why not come up with a very clear hypothesis that can be tested, and run it across the roughly 80 C. jejuni genomes available from NCBI? http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/149 