This manuscript focuses on an important and relevant issue: determining whether proactive intervention strategies are beneficial for infants at risk for later speech or language deficits associated with a specific condition (Classic Galactosemia, henceforth “CG”). This is an ambitious longitudinal project. In this manuscript, the authors report on preliminary findings and directions for research. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? The primary limitation of the work in its current form is a lack of specificity. First, the literature review fails to give the reader a full sense of the related research or of the related clinical services that have gone before. For example, the authors state that, “very early speech and language services are not yet available” (p. 3). They add that, “The question is whether proactive, preventive treatment, if it existed, could reduce the deleterious effects associated with the disease [that results in risk for speech-language delay] …and thereby improve outcomes” (p. 3). These statements seriously downplay decades of research and of speech-language services in early intervention. As long ago as 1983, Tomasello and Todd 1 showed that levels of parental joint attention impacted their infants’ vocabularies between 12-18 months. Roberts and Kaiser’s systematic review 2 documents the research demonstrating that training parents to interact with their children in certain ways can impact linguistic outcomes. For example, more recently, Roberts et al . 3 trained caregivers to use enhanced milieu teaching using a “teach-model-coach-review” approach. This included not only telling and showing the caregivers what to do, but also coaching them as they tried out the strategies and reviewing their success afterwards. Treatment fidelity on the part of the trainers and on the part of the caregivers were both measured. These authors demonstrated that the frequency and accuracy with which the caregivers carried out the strategies that they were taught had an impact on the children’s communication progress. These are but a few of many studies documenting the value of SLPs training parents to interact with their infants and toddlers in a manner that will facilitate communication development, with the result that SLPs involved in early intervention typically do train parents to use these strategies. For example, ASHA’s 4 practice portal document on early intervention states that, “Services that include opportunities for families and caregivers to directly participate in intervention are essential to strengthen existing knowledge and skills and to promote the development of new abilities that enhance child and family outcomes” 5 and that, “SLPs often coach families, caregivers, and other team members in how to implement functional, language-enhancing strategies during daily activities (Brown, 2016 6 ; Brown Woods, 2015 7 , 2016 8 ; Roberts Kaiser, 2011 2 ; Roberts, Kaiser, Wolfe, Bryant, Spidalieri, 2014 3 ; Searcy, 2011 9 ; Shelden Rush, 2010 10 ).” Therefore, the authors need to specify how their study is similar to and different from what’s been done before. Unique and important characteristics of their study might include the focus on stimulating prelinguistic vocalizations specifically (versus communication/cognition more generally), beginning at such a young age, and intervention for children with this specific syndrome. However, the very brief descriptions that they provide of their caregiver trainings make it impossible to judge exactly what they are training the parents to do, how they are training them to do it, and whether or not the treatment fidelity of the trainers or of the parents are actually measured. In this sense, the work is not clearly presented. See below for further discussion of the current lack of specificity in these areas. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? The authors are gathering specific data systematically from several children, selected according to specific criteria, including two control participants who are not receiving treatment (one of whom has CG and one of whom does not), across time. However, the authors need to explicitly state the study’s design at the beginning of methods section of this manuscript. Further, the work and its context within its content area and the methods used are not presented specifically enough to judge the soundness of the approach or the appropriateness of the conclusions that are drawn from the results. Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? The authors do not provide adequate details about the participants and methods used in this study, specifically: Inclusion and exclusion criteria should be organized separately on page 4 for clarity. In addition to participant criteria, authors should report participant characteristics (i.e., hearing/vision status, whether they are receiving other interventions concurrently, family composition/status, whether participants stay at home or are enrolled in daycare, etc.). This information is important to include for later analyses, as these variables may be confounders, mediators and moderators. In addition to participant information, characteristics need to be collected and provided about legal guardian(s), specifically (a) socioeconomic status, (b) level of education, and (c) estimated amount of time spent with participants (an important consideration for intervention implementation/ feasibility). The authors mention on page 4 that enrichment variables are monitored, but preliminary findings of how these variables may be influencing outcomes is important to report, even qualitatively. Again, this information is important to include for later analyses, as these variables may be confounders, mediators and moderators. Frequency of parent training and consultation is reported as “once per week for approximately 10 minutes” (p. 4). There is no information on the fidelity of parent implementation of BBC strategies, nor is there information on what types of training are provided. For example, were parents just given information or did trainers observe them using strategies and offer feedback? Roberts et al . 3 recommend a four-step caregiver training process; Akamoglu and Dinnebeil 11 recommend six steps. Were recommendations such as these followed? Were the parents’ goals for their children taken into account? Brown 6 reports that, “Intervention studies using...a transactional [as opposed to uni-directional] coaching approach have shown to have positive effects on parent and child outcomes while aligning with the intent of family capacity-building (Brown Woods, 2015 7 , 2016 8 ; Roberts et al ., 2014 3 ; Wetherby et al., 2014 12 )” (p. 144). If fidelity measures were performed, how was it measured and what are the results? This is important for replication purposes and also for judging factors that may impact the results of the study. Roberts et al . 3 report that, despite the intensive attention that was paid in their study to telling, showing, coaching, and reviewing the intervention strategies that they taught to parents, “generalization of strategy use to the home varied by caregiver and by strategy” (p. 1864) and also by activity type (play, book-reading, etc.). The fact that only approximately 10 minutes of training was provided weekly is problematic for clinical translation purposes, as this amount and frequency of SLP intervention is not billable or practical. The authors report that 50 utterances are compiled and transcribed using the International Phonetic Alphabet; however, no information is provided about how this information is acquired or under what circumstances. What level of IPA transcription is used - broad or narrow? Is IPA used for precanonical babble (which is not appropriate)? If not, are precanonical utterances omitted from the calculations? Are parents instructed to interact with their children during the samples using instructed strategies or with specific toys/stimuli? Are other communication partners involved, such as siblings? The authors deemed the participant pool insufficient for running statistical tests; however, more information needs to be provided qualitatively about the participants described in this pilot study. In terms of “quality control” on page 5, the authors say that scores were double-scored. The authors need to clarify whether they mean intra-rater or inter-rater reliability was performed. Rationale should also be provided as to why 15% of the data was selected for this type of reliability analysis. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? The use of symbols to mark data across time points in Figures 1-4 is problematic, as data points overlap in scores. This makes it difficult to determine whether two participants had the same score at one point or whether scores were not determined at particular time points. The authors should modify these figures using lines to present trends instead. If data are missing, then this needs to be indicated/reported, similar to what is reported if a participant is enrolled after 12 months of age. Since the primary outcome variables are speech sound production in babble, it would be advantageous for the authors to report information on the types and percentages of consonants and vowels that are acquired by the participants based on each 50 utterance sample compiled across time points. The same is also true about expressive language, specifically total number of words, word types, and stage 1 word types (i.e., operations of reference, semantic relations). These measures are valuable in monitoring progress and change over time, and are relevant based on the primary outcome variables of interest. Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? The authors draw only tentative conclusions regarding why the children in the study had various outcomes, such as, “Whether these patterns reflect global levels of disease severity, global deficits from the treatment, or a combination of these cannot be ascertained based on the present data” (p. 8). This is appropriate, given the currently small sample size. However, as noted above, the authors should provide much more information about other factors (i.e., parental and environmental characteristics) that are likely to have influenced the outcomes of the children reported in this preliminary account. The authors state on page 5 that “Continued data collection and analysis in this population will provide conclusive evidence.” Given that the data reported are preliminary, this comment is appropriate. However, future evidence still should not be deemed as “conclusive,” but rather as “more promising”. It is too soon for the authors to draw conclusions about the validity of their measures based on these preliminary data. Therefore, their statement on page 7 that: “It is possible that MBL and SSL do not measure crucial weaknesses in children with CG in general” seems inappropriate at this time. The authors should omit or reword the phrase “Given the 90% risk for language impairment in children with CG” on page 8. This is a misinterpretation of the research reported by the authors on page 3: “language impairment in 90% of children with CG.” Risk should be reported as a statistical measure and cannot be inferred based on this reported proportion. We look forward to further information and updates on this interesting study. 