This paper reports the audit results of seven sonographer self-reporting high visualization rates of normal postmenopausal ovaries in the United Kingdom Collaborative Trial of Ovarian Cancer Screening (UKCTOCS). Eight experts reviewed static images from 357 ultrasound examinations performed on 349 postmenopausal women (mean age 60.0 yrs) to assess whether visualization of both ovaries with normal morphology could be confirmed. A random effects bivariate probit model was fitted to analyze the results. Both normal ovaries could be visualized in only two-thirds of cases, in both the sonographer and expert groups, and there was variation between findings reported by sonographers and their expert reviewers. As a result, the authors conclude that self-reported visualization of normal ovaries by sonographers is unreliable. The authors further suggest that effective quality control in the interpretation of large numbers of ovarian ultrasound images is difficult, and may be enhanced by applying recent advances in machine-learning to this problem. This audit confirms that the ultrasound evaluation of normal postmenopausal ovaries is often challenging because of their low volume. In fact, ovarian volumes continue to decrease after menopause, so ultrasound visualization may be even more difficult in women in the seventh and eighth decades of life 1 . As demonstrated, interpretation of ovarian ultrasound images is subjective, and may vary significantly between sonographers and expert physicians. For this reason, ultrasound scans, both of normal and abnormal ovaries, are reviewed by physicians for all women enrolled in the University of Kentucky Ovarian Screening Trial 2 . This review is time-consuming, however, and may be impractical as ovarian cancer screening is made available to large populations of at-risk women. The authors are to be commended for supporting efforts to adapt machine-learning technology to achieve automated analysis of static and video ultrasound images. A related and equally important issue is the ability of sonographers and expert reviewers to identify those morphologic patterns associated with early ovarian cancer. The evaluation algorithm used to identify those ultrasound patterns associated with ovarian cancer is important because it increases the positive predictive value of screening, and limits operative intervention for benign disease. We agree with the authors that ovarian cancer screening should be offered to women at moderate risk for ovarian cancer as a method to reduce disease mortality through early detection 3 , and applaud their efforts to standardize ultrasound interpretation. 