This article describes the prevalence of and risk factors associated with HIV in four prisons in Pakistan. These data are very important for prioritizing programs that are essential for HIV control in this vulnerable population. I propose a major revision of this manuscript. Methods section: How was the HIV screening test proposed in the study population? Was the test optional or mandatory? If the test was not mandatory, what was the participation rate? How did you calculate the sample size, in particular for the number of participants who responded to the questionnaire? Please clarify the HIV diagnostic algorithm. For participants with a positive "Alere Determine HIV test" result, the HIV status "was confirmed by initial confirmatory rapid diagnostic kits (Uni-Gold) and followed by confirmatory rapid diagnostic kits (SD Bioline)". In the case of a positive "Alere determine test" result and negative "Uni-Gold test" result, did you process the SD Bioline test? How did you manage discordant results? Discussion section: "Education status was also found as an important factor in HIV risk assessment, as a large majority of HIV positive prisoners (62.5%) were not educated or had been educated for less than 5 years". This statement is not true. In the results section, you should provide the results of a bivariate analysis to estimate the association between education level and HIV prevalence. The level of education is not associated with HIV (62.5% versus 51.1%, p=0.4, OR=1.6 (0.5-5.1)). "The prisoners who were single had a higher prevalence of HIV, as 62.5% of HIV-positive prisoners were unmarried". In the results section, you must also provide the results of a bivariate analysis to estimate the association between this variable and HIV. Marital status is not associated with infection (62.5% versus 46.6%, p=0.24). I believe an epidemiologist should be involved as a coauthor to validate the interpretation of the results. You should discuss the result in which a statistically significant association is identified in the study population and put it in perspective with the data from the literature. And when a generally recognized risk factor is not associated with infection in the study population, you should still discuss it. For example, in your study, "extramarital sex status" (OR-4.48, IC95% 1-4-14.2) is associated with HIV but not "homosexual sex status" (OR=2.1, IC95% 0.7-6.3). Also, you cannot state "A substantial proportion of HIV-infected prisoners were involved in behaviour considered to be presumptive risk factors associated with HIV; 68.8% were involved in extramarital sex and 43.8% had engaged in homosexual practices". I suggest you describe the limitations of the study. What potential biases do you suspect, and what are their expected impacts on the results? The manuscript should be proofread by a native English speaker for spelling, grammar and punctuation, as it contains many errors throughout. Many phrases contain errors, which makes reading the manuscript difficult. 