General Comments: The authors describe their application, MetaGenSense, a web-based application for analysing metagenomic data. It provides a user-friendly interface which combines a LIMS system with a Galaxy backend for computation and workflow management. The Django framework is very nice, and I think the integration of Galaxy with a LIMS system is very useful and something many readers will be interested in. However, many aspects of this application are tailored specifically to the authors local setup. I installed parts of the application, but since no information is provided on how to install the various components (LIMS/Django/KRONA/BioBlend), and since the Galaxy server used in the code was not accessible to me, it was not fully functional, and because documentation was lacking, it was unclear to me how to proceed with the setup. To make this work more valuable to the readers, the following additions would be helpful: Installation instructions for the code on GitHub. The readme file is empty at the moment. How to install the various components (LIMS, Django UI, KRONA, BioBlend)? And how to connect the different components together? How to configure the webserver correctly (apache/nginx/other)? Which parts of the code are specific to the authors local setup and need to be adapted when readers install their own MetaGenSense instance? A description of the Galaxy workflows used by the authors would also be very interesting, which tools are used? are they available from the Galaxy tool shed? Either create a demo server with an example project or add screenshots of the application to the manuscript. The UI looks quite nice, show it to the readers. The case study section is very technical, and would be enhanced by showing the use-case in terms of a real biological example, add screenshots of a real-world analysis to the various steps in this section. Minor Edits: Capitalize the word "Galaxy" throughout. In section "Bioinformatics and HTS projects", BiobBlend -- BioBlend 