 Abstract and Introduction: There are a number of grammatical errors in the manuscript. The following are examples in the abstract: 'In this study, we identified mosquito species across Kisumu, Kilifi and Nairobi Counties' - I believe mosquitoes were collected from only few places in the three counties and therefore should read were collected from and not across. There should be a word 'the' before consequent mortality in line 1 of the abstract. Commas are missing in some areas where they should be e.g. in the abstract. '.........Despite reports on increase of new and recurrent mosquito borne-disease outbreaks such as chikungunya, dengue fever and Rift valley fever in Kenya little is known about the genetic characteristics.' A comma after Kenya. 'PCR was used to amplify and sequence the partial cytochrome oxidase subunit 1 (CO1) gene.' This sentence creates an impression that PCR was used for both amplificationa nd sequencing. I believe PCR was used to amplify the genes but sequencing was done using another method. This should be clarified. It is needless to repeat the word haplotypes three types. In the introduction: '.............pathogens causing diseases such as; malaria, lymphatic filariases, avian malaria' - That semi colon after such as should not be there. There is lack of standardization in writing names. e.g. disease names such as Chikungunya, Dengue are started with a capital letter in the main body but with small letters in the Keywords Some scientific names of some species are wrongly written e.g. Aedes cummnisii should be Aedes cumminsii. Culicine mosquitoes not Culcine mosquitoes in some areas and others mosquitos. Methods: There aren't sufficient details of the methods to allow replication by others. For instance, there is no mention of where the Pyrethrum Spray Catches were done. Was in inside houses, Bus waiting lounges, garages? The reference for PSC collection method should clearly indicate that it is as used by Ndiath et al. 2011. I have rated the study design study as partly appropriate as being a study that targeted diversity, one sampling method that targets only indoor resting mosquitoes was not the best. There is probably a need to justify why only PSC was used and point one method as the reason for the low diversity collected. Again, it is not explained why bus stops in the three counties were preferred as sampling sites. If the idea was to see the contribution of transportation to the mixing of populations, then that didn't come out clearly. 'Only a few Aedes aegypti in Nairobi (Kinuthia et al ., 2017)'. The authors do not tell us it is few of what. Few haplotypes or individuals? diversity and spread of Aedes aegypti has been associated with expansion on arboviral infection...........' - This statement needs to be rephrased. The word on can be replaced by of. Alternatively, it can be Diversity and spread of Ae. aegypti has been attributed to the increase in arboviral infections. 'and was predominated in the Kilifi samples......' Should read it was predominant in Kilifi samples. 'This may contribute to the high susceptibility to dengue-outbreak reported in the region (Baba et al' - Should read this may contribute to their high susceptibility 'The similarities in the genetic composition between the An. gambiae in Kenya and Uganda is most likely due to the proximity of the two countries to one another and the exchanges is more likely over land as opposed to across lake Victoria as claimed in the discussion. This study has indicated high diversity of Anopheles haplotypes in the Kisumu population' - I do not think two species only can be regarded as high diversity. Probably you should use the word higher in comparison with Nairobi and Kilifi. 'The low diversity of Anopheles species in Kilifi and Nairobi may be attributed to the Great Rift Valley,' - there is an abundance of Anopheles especially in Kilifi (see Mwangangi et al 2012 which you have in the references). The problem is the choice of sampling method employed. PSC targets indoor resting mosquitoes only while the highest diversity are found outdoors Conclusion: The conclusion is sounding a bit weak and it is more of a discussion than a conclusion. There isn't a strong conclusion about the findings on diversity and molecular characterization of mosquitoes encountered. 