Overall the article is good and contributing to a serious health care issue. It would be really helpful if a native English speaker can review it one time to improve the flow of the language. Abstract Results, 3 rd sentence: suggestion The factors that were related to safe injection practices included nurses who were younger OR… and fewer number of years working as a nurse OR… Conclusion: While nurses have high level of knowledge about safe injections but a small proportion actually practiced. Experience may not always guarantee safe practices. Injection safety training should be regularly imparted upon all categories of nurses. Introduction: Please write full details of reference 1 Please delete reference number 5 and use these two references: 1 Pepin et al. Evolution of the global use of unsafe medical injections, 2000-2010. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 9;9(6):e99677. 2 Pepin et al. Evolution of the global burden of viral infections from unsafe medical injections, 2000-2010. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 9;9(6):e99677. According to the first study the global burden of unsafe injections is 5.5% and the number of infections associated with unsafe injections is mentioned in the second paper. Please read and update this detail. Results: Current status of nurses knowledge regarding safe injection: In the table it says 7.3% in front of 2 time? Nurses knowledge of safe injection technique: Please reduce the text since tables are quite self explanatory. Long readings tend to distract the readers Safe injection practices at Ha Dong hospital: First sentence is a comment. In the results please present what the study found and refrain from comments in the results section “anti shock injection box” is not a common term. Suggestion is to please explain it. Table 4: Suggestion to remove the column on cumulative percentage as it is not providing any objective information. It has the potential to confuse the reader. Discussion: Please use the first paragraph of discussion to highlight four or five key findings of the study. In subsequent paras please explain some of these findings in light of other published literature. If no study is available use your own judgement. 