This is an extremely well-written manuscript that makes a significant contribution to the methodology used to analyse quantitative diffusion imaging of tumours with MRI. There is a rapid growth in clinical interest in this application of diffusion imaging. However, many studies to date have performed a rudimentary analysis of the data without the rigour of an informed statistical analysis. The current study addresses this issue by introducing a sound methodology for performing these analyses. The authors draw upon an extensive knowledge of statistical methodology and provide clear explanations of the techniques used, together with an extensive list of background references, which are clearly linked to individual aspects of the proposed methodology. I have provided a list of detailed comments below, but I would only expect corresponding changes to the manuscript where this can be done with very minor changes to the text. As addressed in the discussion, the analysis of the local spatial variation using the CAR model characterizes the behaviour of the image pixel signal intensities, rather than the underlying biological tissue properties directly. The authors acknowledge that the imaging point spread function (PSF) therefore plays a role in this part of the analysis. Indeed, for the single-shot EPI sequence used in this study there is typically a significant image smoothing effect due to T2* decay during the long readout time. In addition to the T2* dependence, the extent of this smoothing depends on the additional acquisition parameters, so it would be helpful if the following additional information were added to the methods: EPI echo spacing; parallel imaging acceleration factor; partial Fourier factor. In addition, it would also be relevant to specify whether any image-based interpolation was applied to the images, as this would also affect the local correlation between pixels. Such interpolation is sometimes applied to correct distortions in EPI images due to concomitant gradient terms or eddy currents. As the spatial extent of these effects can be estimated for the specific experimental case, it would also be helpful for a brief statement regarding the impact that these issue are likely to have in the current study. Page 4, Image Data Analysis: The images used were presumably modulus images. Although, this is standard practice for DWI, I suggest that this is made explicit because there are of course implications for the noise distribution. In relation to this point, it is not clear to me from the manuscript whether the Rician noise distribution from such images was considered during the analysis. In standard analyses, the resulting systematic bias at low SNR invalidates the standard exponential decay model used in equation (2). Please provide a statement regarding the effect of modulus image reconstruction on the analysis performed in this work. Page 5, Image Data Analysis: The rigorous statistical modelling in the study is somewhat undermined by the empirical process of defining the tumour extent and intra-tumour core and boundary regions. This is already acknowledged in the discussion as a limitation, requiring future work for clinical application. However, in the context of the current study, the statistical characterisation of the boundary effects relies on prospectively identifying a boundary region using arbitrary ADC thresholds. It is possible that the regression coefficients in Table 4 are heavily influenced by this manual procedure. This could be explored experimentally, or addressed by extending the existing discussion. Would it be an option in the future to define the boundary zone automatically within the analysis by identifying the region with the spatial dependence of ADC value assumed in the model? I am not convinced by the use of the ADC 0.5 parameters, whose definition seems quite contrived and not very intuitive. Comparing the data in Tables 1 and 3, the differences between ADCs and ADC 0.5 do however make sense: the ADC 0.5 values tend to be higher due to the influence of the low b-value, fast-diffusion component, particularly for the Maximum values, which presumably correspond to voxels with relatively high fractions of the fast diffusion behaviour. However, I can imagine that this information would have been more accessible if it had been provided via a normalized version of the delta parameter in Fig. 2, which is a more direct measure of the deviation from monoexponential behaviour at low b-value. As a point of reference, it would be interesting to see the corresponding results for spatial heterogeneity in regions of brain tissue with ADC values in the normal range or for brains of healthy volunteers. This might help to establish to what extent the large subject-dependent variation in spatial heterogeneity in the clinical data is meaningful. Page 13, Discussion: The authors state that the proposed MCMC method is expected to produce ADC range data that is less extreme than values provided by an independent voxels analysis. To substantiate this claim, it would have been helpful to provide a direct comparison of results generated by applying both methods to the current data set. The field strength of scanner was omitted from the Methods (1.5T). Please state in the Methods what type of diffusion preparation was used (Stejskal-Tanner or twice-refocused). I assume that the twice-refocused method was used to minimize diffusion-gradient-dependent image distortion (naturally, an important consideration in quantitative studies in general and specifically relevant to the analysis of local spatial variation in the current work). The symbols used for signal offset at b=0 (equations 3,5,6) and the set of nearest-neighbour voxel indices (equations 12,13) are superficially similar and this might cause confusion. 