This is a well written piece that in my opinion is important and justified to index. The author makes the argument that current clinical practice does not recognise asymmetries in the central auditory system that might be responsible for individual differences in speech in noise perception. The author gives a critical literature review about research in the asymmetric auditory system with regards to structure, function, development and modelling. This is an excellent review in this area that has been lacking so far. The authors conclusion is that the observed asymmetry could be (partially) also responsible for observed individual differences in speech in noise performance. This connection has – to my knowledge – never been made and is an interesting suggestion. There is certainly not enough research in this area (as the author points out) and the question of causal relationships needs deeper investigation, but the conclusion that today’s clinical speech tests that are performed mostly unilaterally are difficult to interpret is (in my opinion) absolutely justified. The author concludes with recommendation for clinical work that are straightforward and should be considered: more use of high frequency audiometry (which is not related to the topic in this paper, but absolutely justified from existing literature), and more performance of free field speech audiometry (before and after fitting). A few points could improve the paper further: The superior olives and the inferior colliculus are generally thought to be the first fully bilateral sound processing stations in the auditory pathways and many authors suspect that they are involved in the speech of noise task. To my knowledge there has never been an asymmetry been observed (or even suspected) in the brainstem processing. However, from there, the auditory streams go to either auditory cortex. So, it is not quite the case that (as implied in figure 1), the information stream goes straight from the ears to the contralateral cortex. I don’t immediately see how this affects the main argument of AC asymmetry, but I feel for completeness that this should be discussed. Many authors don’t give the brainstem the due recognition in the role for speech understanding – understandable as there is little research in this area. The Bergen experiment is central and explanation takes up a lot of space, however, it is not explained well. I needed to reread the page several times before I understood what the bars in figure 3 are. Also: where is the data from? Error bars? What does ‘contrived’ mean in the legend. Please rephrase the legend so that this interesting experiment becomes understandable to the non-expert reader. Same with figure 4: where is the data from? Re-worked? What are the error bars? You are talking about the inter-individual difference later, but it’s not clear here how large the effect is in relationship to their variance. The paragraph about the hidden hearing loss actually doesn’t add anything to the discussion about asymmetry or did I miss that? It’s all correct, but what is the point of it for this paper, other than giving a second clinical recommendation (as much as I support it!) In conclusion, I really enjoyed reading this and am planning some undergrad experiment later this year to find out more about the asymmetry of speech in noise recognition. 