I had the opportunity to review the manuscript entitled “Evaluation of portal pressure by Doppler ultrasound in patients with cirrhosis before and after simvastatin administration – a randomized controlled trial.” In this project, the authors performed ultrasound assessment to determine whether treatment with simvastatin resulted in findings suggestive of a decrease in portal vein pressure compared to placebo. The subject is of interest for clinicians involved in the care of cirrhosis patients, particularly as the studied agent is already widely available. While these data are clinically relevant and must be reported, I have numerous concerns about data reporting in this work. I will list the main issues that must be addressed in my opinion, followed by other minor points. Main concerns: As a randomized controlled trial, the comparator is the placebo group (as it was written in the Clinicaltrials.gov entry). It is clear, just by reading the abstract of this article, that the results are not adequately reported. Group 1 and group 2 (placebo) are not compared in the result section of the abstract: the main result reported is a pre-post analysis without comparison with the control group. The main analysis of your study should be as described in your clinicaltrials.gov entry: comparing the intervention and the placebo arm on the primary outcome (The number of patients with reduced portal pressure after intervention). It is also important clearly determine what was the primary outcome of the study in the method section (what ultrasound parameter is the most clinically important for the evaluation of portal hypertension). Other less important echographic parameters should be considered secondary outcomes. In order for the readers to adequately assess the risk of bias in this study, I think it is important for the authors to give information about the following points which are included in the Cochrane Risk of Bias assessment tool: Please describe the method of randomization Please describe the method of allocation concealment (if any) Please describe if there was blinding during outcome assessment (does the ultrasonographer knew patient allocation to one arm or the other) There was no study protocol available for review. The file identified as the study protocol was a copy of the NCT entry and thus was insufficient. I think points a and b are especially important as baseline differences were seen between the intervention and the placebo arm (more severe cirrhosis in the intervention arm) The discussion section should be heavily modified. The authors do not discuss previous clinical trials of the subject. There is at least 4 previous trials on the subject. (PMID: 29099421, 26321186, 26774179, 19208350) This is a vital part of the discussion section that must highlight how this work compares with previous studies. Additionally, the limitations of the study are not discussed which is usually an integral part of the discussion section. Other specific comments: Abstract: Please see main concern no 1 Methods Please clarify the inclusion criteria for portal hypertension. Were all the features required to be present or only one of them was sufficient? How were patients approached for this study? On an outpatient basis or during hospitalisation? Please make sure to indicate that this is a open-label study both in the abstract and in the method. Please describe how you determined that the distribution for the continuous variables was normal Please describe how you determined sample size Results: Too much emphasis is put on the baseline values. I don’t think it is necessary to repeat what is found in the Tables except for clinically or statistically significant differences between groups. Focus on the comparison of outcome between the intervention and the control group. Pre-post analysis should be secondary in a randomized clinical trial. How many patients were on nadolol. Were the dose modified during the treatment period? Discussion Please see main concern no 3 Please provide a small summary of the main findings at the beginning. The discussion about echographic parameters is of limited interest in its present form. I would suggest to focus of the clinical implications of these findings. Surely, you think that some of those markers represent good surrogates for the severity of portal hypertension and may be used as a pharmacologic treatment target? This should represent an opportunity to describe what is the best marker (primary outcome) and if it was modified by statin therapy. It should be discussed in the results that the baseline imbalance in PHI between the intervention and control group is problematic in this study and probably affect the lack of difference between the two groups at 30 days. Was this imbalance due to chance? Giving more information (see major point 2) would help the reader to understand the possible explanations. I will be available to reconsider this manuscript after these issues are addressed. Thank you for the opportunity to review this work. Sincerely William Beaubien-Souligny MD FRCPC 