This article presented proteomics datasets on the sperm quality of diabetic male rats treated with Gynura procumbens extract. The study was well planned, executed and the article is well drafted. Indeed, the authors addressed the effectiveness of this G. procumbens medicinal plant in treating diabetes mellitus and infertility in a previously published article by Kamaruzaman et al. (2018) 1 . While in this article, the authors detailed out the experimental design and methodology for the preparation of proteomic data and how the data were analysed using MaxQuant and Perseus analysis softwares. However, there are a number of issues which need to be clarified and additional information are necessary in order to improve this article: Given that the raw and processed data have been deposited in Proteome Xchange database (PXD011373), however the link for the ‘Dataset FTP location’ seems to be not working. By trying another link given under ‘PRIDE project URI’, the file with name ‘combine.rar’ was downloadable but failed to be opened. I would suggest the authors to check again on the data accessibility issue and fix any possible error in order to share those information with readers. For the section ‘Dataset’, additional information are needed particularly related to the processed data. For example, the number of animal sample per group used for generating the processed data, how was the raw data of biological replicates in each group combined for analysis? Was there a normalization step across datasets for each group performed? What were the parameters used for stringent search in MaxQuant and Perseus analysis softwares, including thresholds and cut off values set for identifying a total of 88 proteins in all groups? There were three different dosages of G. procumbens aqueous extract (150, 300 and 450 mg/kg) used for treatment referring to Kamaruzaman et al. (2018) 1 , however this article presented and deposited dataset for only one treatment 450 mg/kg. Perhaps the authors can state somewhere in the article (i.e. experimental design section) regarding the rationale of choosing this particular treatment dataset? Under the section ‘Sample collection and preparation’ there was a typo observed in the second last sentence where the samples kept at 80C until used, it should be -80C instead. In short, I would recommend this article to be indexed with minor revisions as the above. 