I commend the authors for their work, which remains a crucial area that has not been fully addressed in South East Asia, sparing a few countries. There are however a number of methodological issues and issues with interpretation which makes these findings less valid. The authors mention that, "A list of 2,734 student names was obtained and of these, participants were selected by simple random sampling (939 names were drawn), ensuring that the same proportion of each academic year was invited ." This statement is not clear, do the authors mean an equal proportion of students from each year (which is clearly not true, since 49% of the participants belong to Grade I) or do they mean an equal proportion relative to the number of students in each Grade? It is also unclear if the categorization of low, medium, high based for both attitude and risky behavior was based off cut-offs specified by Likert and Best? If so, do the authors think that these are appropriate for their setting? The authors change the definition of low knowledge from 60% to 50% when they use it in the logistic regression model, what is the justification for this? Did the authors consider using an ordinal logistic regression so that they did not need to change their definitions? Please see the link for ordered logistic regression below: https://stats.idre.ucla.edu/stata/dae/ordered-logistic-regression/ Why did the authors use the mean to describe a cut-off for the attitude, but the median to describe a cut-off for risky behavior? How robust are the authors' estimates to the specification of these cut-offs? Did they consider conducting any sensitivity analyses? In the Results section, it is unclear if the authors are describing practices as practiced by these students (as the subheading indicates in the Results section) or knowledge about these practices (as indicated by Table 5)? The authors switch between the two and what they intend to describe becomes ambiguous. Moreover, in the results there are a number of inconsistencies which the authors have not explained: Example 1 : "60.2% reported behaviors to prevent HIV/AIDS through avoidance of risky behaviors such as: using condoms regularly during sex with casual partners" AND "61% don’t have sex with girl/boyfriends who they are just dating". Since people can use condoms only when having sex (conventionally), if 61% of them are not having sex then it is not possible that 60.2% of them are using a condom. Example 2 : "52.3% don’t have sex when under the influence of alcohol" AND "73.4% of them reported drinking alcohol" These statements taken together would imply, contrary to what the authors state in their discussion, that alcohol may cause risky sexual behavior. In fact these two statements taken together would imply that students were less likely to indulge in high risk behavior after consuming alcohol. I would suggest that the authors try stratifying their analysis by gender, to see if they see a heterogeneity of effects based on gender. The authors should consider using a language editing service, if it is available to them to make their language a lot more clearer. 