In this manuscript, the authors aimed to classify genes reported to be involved in DNA elimination of Paramecium by comparing sensitivities of internal eliminated sequences (IESs) and other eliminated sequences (OESs) to RNAi knockdown (KD) of the genes. Their classification method provides quantitative scores for pairwise correlations of genes in DNA elimination pathway and they successfully separated two groups of genes: RNA-associated genes and histone modification genes. The authors also showed that shorter and longer IESs have different sensitivities to RNAi KD of different genes and the sensitivities of OESs were similar to those of longer IESs. Therefore, they suggested that the mechanisms for IES and OES eliminations are overlapping. I believe the presented data is compelling and the strategy described is useful to elucidate the function of uncharacterized genes in DNA elimination in future study. Major points Because this is a method article, I suggest the authors to minimize biological interpretations and rather extensively discuss methodological/strategical validities and technical/theoretical disadvantages, if any. Related to this point, it may be better to present the data shown in Figure 5 in another paper. The authors' strategy does not distinguish direct roles of a genes in DNA elimination from its indirect effects in DNA elimination. I believe this point should be discussed. Some possibilities may be discusses are: a) histone modification genes may affect DNA elimination not only directly through histone modifications on IESs/OESs but also indirectly through regulating expressions of genes involved in DNA elimination; b) RNA-associated genes may act not only on chromatin but also in post-transcriptional regulations of genes involved in DNA elimination, like classical RNAi. In these cases, direct targets of RNA-associated genes and histone modification genes may be identical and the observed differences are due to indirect effects. I am confused by the following descriptions in the 2nd and the 3rd paragraphs of Results (page 8), which need some clarification. a) Though they first mentioned that "these knockdowns may indicate most of the Paramecium IESs requiring scnRNAs and iesRNAs for their excision", they then wrote in the next paragraph that "We therefore infer that most IES excision in Paramecium does not require IES-targeting sRNAs." b) I do not see why "most IES excision in Paramecium does not require IES-targeting sRNAs" is "consistent" with the fact that "scnRNAs alone are insufficient for most IES excision". I think a requirement cannot be inferred from an insufficiency. According to the authors' recent publication (Allen et al. 2017), the production of iesRNA requires circularization of IESs. Therefore, different sensitivities of short and long IESs (and OESs) to KDs of the DNA elimination genes are likely related to their ability to make circle when they are eliminated. I think this possibility should be discussed. Very little discussion for PDSG2 in the manuscript. The IES retention scores of PDSG2 KD shows no strong correlation with those of any other KDs. Does this mean PDSG2 forms the third group? If so, what would be the function of the third group? If they do not provide any additional explanation, it may be better to consider removing PDSG2-related data from this study. Other minor points Abstract: I do not see "comparisons of experimentally-induced DNA retention" in this study. Abstract: although I agree that the approach is quantitative but not clear how the authors can claim it is sensitive. PtCAF1 encodes a protein similar to chromatin remodeling factor and thus classifying this gene as "histone modification" would be misnomer. Figure 3A: The colors for "IESs per bin" are not visible in the individual plots (all dots look purple). Same for Figure 4E. 