There is much current attention to the role of the gut, especially gut microbiota, in the regulation of body weight. At the same time the US and other countries face escalating rates of childhood and adolescent obesity, suggesting the importance of obesity prevention efforts, of which there have been few shown to have significant impacts. This study examines one innovative potential approach to preventing obesity targeting food components, specifically the incorporation of dietary resistant starch into a common food item, yogurt. The study focused on the acceptability of the sensory characteristics of yogurt enhanced with one such resistant starch, compared to yogurt enhanced with a control amylopectin starch, among pre-adolescent and adolescent subjects. A small pilot 4-week trial also looked at the effects of the resistant starch when consumed by 4 subjects. The sensory evaluation study was well-designed with tight controls and a sizable N. Assessment of various sensory attributes was rather comprehensive among the adolescent sample, which unfortunately was substantially smaller than the sample of 7- to 8-year olds who could not be expected to make the finer sensory distinctions on which the adolescents were queried. The actual resistant starch content of the various yogurt samples was verified by analyses. The sensory evaluation study showed that the subjects consistently preferred the control yogurt to that containing the resistant starch. The adolescents found the resistant starch yogurts to be inferior to the control yogurts on appearance, taste, thickness, sandiness and acceptability. About 25% of the adolescent subjects rated the resistant starch as unacceptable. Among the younger children, whose only ratings were a smiling face, neutral face or sad/frowning face, the resistant starch yogurt was more strongly disliked, with nearly two-thirds of subjects awarding it a frowning face. The discussion does not adequately address these results, which show consistently that the sensory characteristics of the resistant starch yogurt preparation are not well received by children and adolescents. The conclusion that our studies confirmed the general acceptability of incorporating HAM-RS2 into yogurt seems to fly in the face of these results. The very small pilot clinical trial provided some support for the hypothesis that the resistant starch would produce changes in gut microbiota, findings worth following up with a larger study. It also showed that despite the limited acceptability ratings, the products could be consumed over a 4-week period. However, the weight gain seen among all four subjects is disturbing. Although the discussion dismisses this finding by saying that it may reflect growth, the amounts of weight gain seen over 4 weeks were 0.4, 1.7, 1.9 and 3.2 kg. Certainly the latter three gains, if continued over a year, would be quite excessive. Given that the point of this dietary intervention is to prevent excessive weight gain, these preliminary findings are cause for considerable concern. The authors have conducted a well-designed study of the feasibility of this innovative dietary intervention which has the purpose of obesity prevention. The findings show that it is possible to get children and adolescents to consume yogurt containing resistant starches, but more development is necessary to produce a food product with adequate acceptability. Aside from that, however, the assumption that this product, if consumed regularly, might avert excess weight gain needs further study, as the limited results here suggest its effect may be just the opposite of that which was expected and desired.