The authors describe the drivers and motivation behind setting up the Dutch Techcentre for Life Sciences and describe the organisational setup so that the experiences gained can benefit researchers in other fields or countries setting up similar initiatives. As the number of initiatives seems to be steadily growing, this is helpful and could indeed provide some useful background against which other efforts could model themselves. However, trying to come at this from the perspective of someone who might want to implement such an infrastructure, there are some bigger and smaller points that would need to be addressed to be able to give this paper an "approved". The focus is slightly unclear: the abstract and introduction describe the DTL in its entirety, including its history, while more than three quarters are focused on the services related to the last area of activity listed, "DTL Data". The manuscript would benefit hugely from a reorganisation that makes the main focus clearer right at the beginning. It might also be worth considering to put the description of the background and origin (timeline, why was DTL started) at the end of the manuscript. Alternatively, the authors might want to consider leaving the history out of the manuscript completely: at present, the first point that seems to be mentioned is that funding became more scarce, rather than focusing on the benefits. Abstract: as mentioned under (1), the focus on data-related issues should be reflected. It would also be helpful to (very briefly) give examples of "tasks ... that are not easily undertaken in a purely academic setting", as this seems to be one of the core drivers behind DTL. Examples for why and how the environment is changing, and how DTL can address this, would be good in the introduction (rather than leaving this hanging in the abstract). The part about "governance and organisational programmes" is confusing: governance structures are not really described in any detail (who is on the board, and why?). In general, it is unclear that this information adds value to the manuscript - as organisational structures will often heavily depend on local framework conditions, the paragraph on the board and SAB could be left out and the section simply renamed "DTL programme areas" or similar. Section "parallel developments..": the opening paragraph on open data is quite weak and possibly incorrect (e.g. the push towards open data does not originate from the application of data-intensive technologies - arguably, data intensive technologies provide a challenge for open data). For the purpose of this manuscript, less would be more. Going into the Data programme, section on Tools databases: which tools are supported by DTL? How are they selected and/or prioritised? What is the DTL contribution to these tools? e-infrastructure: It might be interesting to explain if there any interactions with European-wide e-infrastructures. Meetings described: There is an odd level of detail. What is missing is who is involved and why, in particular in the case of the project leader meetings. If these are a continuation of TraiT meetings it is clear that there would be a spirit of collaboration, but what about the "other sectors" mentioned - how were participants identified, how will the aims be stated, how will members be motivated? Focus meetings and working groups: who prioritises the topics, and based on what? Relations with external programmes: ELIXIR - "..gives us the possibility to reach out to experts and tools all over Europe" - how about the other way around, can needs also be identified across DTL that would better be met at the European level? Minor points (mostly language): Page 2: "...and let life scientists each replicate the EXPERTISE at their own institutes, the technology institutes decided to develop a FRAMEWORK in which they..." Page 3: "..., and Reusable (datafairport.org). ALLOWING data and knowledge sources.." "All expertise can be classified along those four dimensions" - delete sentence (redundant). Next sentence, change to: "To make expertise fulfilling all four dimensions available,.." "Representatives of the expert centres are in frequent contact.." (delete "involved"). Change to: "More and more, however, the data to be processed becomes too large to handle." Conclusion: "...and found common interests across researchers with a focus in surprisingly different disciplines. ... makes sure NECESSARY data-related expertise.." ELIXIR should be listed by its name (without "ESFRI"), with the full name at first mention 