The paper by Moreira et al. provides an interesting and relevant proto-type solution to the synchronization problem of several parallel research information systems in a national CRIS (Current Research Information Systems) setting. In the Portuguese CRIS landscape there are no local CRIS-systems (i.e. Pure, Converis, Symplectic etc.) in order to understand the Portuguese implementation it is important to make this distinction that the PTCRIS is an umbrella (or agregator) that collects data from several sources including a network of repositories SARI (DSpace), a national research portal (RCAAP) an OAI-PMH service provider, e.g. aggregator and a national CV management system (DeGis). PTCRIS in that sense is not one system or piece of software. Even though this architecture may be unique to Portugal the implications of using ORCID as a syncornization framework is interesting and relevant for other national Research Information/CRIS-architectures. The result is interesting and important for developers of national and international research infrastructures this is why there are also a few points where the paper may be improved. In the paper the authors provides an analytic and generic approach to specifying the relevant synchronization procedures asking first what and then how. The article does not go into the details of the what but describes briefly how this data has been collected and analysed. In this reviewers opinion a more detailed description of the what and a description of the selected use-cases would provide a more comprehensible analysis and clear definition of the selected scenarios. Currently the authors provides abstract descriptions of the synchronization scenarios (see chapter 3.2: Consistency predicates). Because of this level of abstraction it is not completely clear who the end-users are, is it the system managers, system owners, research managers or the researchers (authors and owners of the ORCID profiles). The proposed framework is focussing on the technical implementation of synchronization. But how will the users or researchers e.g. the ORCID profile owners influence the robustness of the synchronization job. One example is that ORCID profile owners may not want to have the same records (works/productions) in their PTCRIS profile as the want in the ORCID profile? The stakeholders of the PTCRIS could be the national government or the university of the researcher who wants all publications listed of a researcher (i.e. the numbers counts in assessments) whereas the researcher may only want a selected number of publications (e.g. the best) to be listed visible. This is briefly discussed in the conclusion. It could be suggested to separate discussion and future perspectives i.e. to a separate section. The metadata quality must be a major challenge to this synchronization framework using ORCID. It is well-known that metadata about research outputs and funding data are often not consistent or of an acceptable quality. It is not clear from the article how the CRIS infrastructure is used in Portugal. If it is used for a research assessment i.e. bibliometric assessment this must be a major issue. It would be relevant to have discussed this issue a bit further in the paper. However since the paper is presenting a prototype framework it is acceptable that it is not dealt with in details. I hope that this will be explored further in later writings from the authors also when ORCIDs API version 2.0 will be in production and the metadata roundtrip also will be in production. Annotations there are some use of annotations like SYNCED (o, p) where o, p could have been described to help the reader. The description and use of PTCRIS sometimes gives the impression of PTCRIS as a single entity or system while as far as this reviewer understands it is an umbrella that encompasses several systems that together collects and exposes the collected research output, actors and activities of Portugal. It currently includes: DeGis, RCAAP and SARI. The authors do not discuss issues with researchers having more ORCIDs is this not an issues for the proposed synchronization framework? Overall the paper is solid and provides an important stepping stone towards a better use and re-use of research information using ORCID as a hub. And I would be happy to accept the paper as is but I hope that the comments will provide thought for possible revisions or further work in a later article.