This study contributes to a developing insight into the efficacy of malaria control interventions that focus on the mosquito vector and its behaviour. It is fast becoming apparent that the success of interventions such as barrier nets, insecticides and other interventions is highly dependent upon the specific temporal and spatial behavior of the mosquito and its relationship to the patterns of human activity in each locality. Some of this is due to the species composition and in some cases, there is evidence for a shift in the behavior due to previous and/or ongoing selective pressures. The current study provides detailed evidence for distinct differences in the biting behaviours of Anopheles in two different locations in Indonesia. Such differences may be important in explaining differences in rates of malaria transmission, and may be useful in modifying current intervention methods. The manuscript is well written, and easy to follow. It represents a well-executed study and presents interesting data. Major Comments : Table 3 and related results. For the purposes of scientific rigor, I suggest the authors employ multiple means corrected statistics rather than repeated single Students t-tests, such as an ANOVA followed by post hoc multiple means corrected pairwise tests such as Bonferroni, Tukey, Dunnett’s tests. Page 9. Paragraph 2. Discussion. The authors state that “…circadian clock genes are associated with exophagic and endophagic behavior in some Anopheles species. However, these studies do not report such findings. In fact, Malita et al. (2016) 1 states the opposite, that they do not find any association between biting time or biting location and circadian clock gene polymorphisms. The authors compare their results with studies of African populations of Anopheles. I think much can also be gleaned from relating the current study with the work conducted in the Solomon Islands and PNG. I am listing a few of those that may be relevant for consideration, although this is not an exhaustive list: Frequent blood feeding enables insecticide-treated nets to reduce transmission by mosquitoes that bite predominately outdoors. Russell TL, Beebe NW, Bugoro H, Apairamo A, Chow WK, Cooper RD, Collins FH, Lobo NF, Burkot TR. Malar J. 2016 Mar 10;15:156. doi: 10.1186/s12936-016-1195-8. 2 Determinants of host feeding success by Anopheles farauti. Russell TL, Beebe NW, Bugoro H, Apairamo A, Cooper RD, Collins FH, Lobo NF, Burkot TR.Malar J. 2016 Mar 10;15:152. doi: 10.1186/s12936-016-1168-y. 3 Anopheles farauti is a homogeneous population that blood feeds early and outdoors in the Solomon Islands.Russell TL, Beebe NW, Bugoro H, Apairamo A, Collins FH, Cooper RD, Lobo NF, Burkot TR.Malar J. 2016 Mar 9;15:151. doi: 10.1186/s12936-016-1194-9. 4 Successful malaria elimination strategies require interventions that target changing vector behaviours. Russell TL, Beebe NW, Cooper RD, Lobo NF, Burkot TR. Malar J. 2013 Feb 7;12:56. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-12-56. 5 More could be discussed by the authors as to the relevance of the specifies specific dominance in each location. For example, much of the temporal biting profile for Anopheles mosquitoes in Jambi can presumably be explain simply by the dominant species at that location being A. balabacensis , which they authors have demonstrated to exhibit an early evening biting profile (Fig. 1). I think this simple species location effect could be stated more clearly as an obvious explanation for the differences in general ‘all-species’ assessment of anopheline biting activity at each location (Fig. 5). Minor Comments : Abstract. Methods section. The last sentence is ambiguous. Suggest rewrite as “..vectors in two localities, with a total of 216 houses and 216 catchers (108 at each study site).” Throughout text, “mosquitoes” is incorrectly spelt. Throughout text, there is inconsistent italicized “Anopheles”. Introduction, paragraph 1. Please define better “personal protection”. Presumably this is the use of repellents, barriers, clothing, head-nets, etc. Figure 1. Are these SEM or SD bars on the charts? Discussion: 2 nd paragraph, “The difference in mosquito abundance may also reflect the annual incidence rate of malaria infection in different endemic areas”. Should this not be argued in the opposite direction, i.e. infection rate reflects mosquito abundance? 