Review report. Does evidence support the high expectations placed in precision medicine? A bibliographic review. By J Corts et al, Summary: a review of randomised trials with continuous outcomes, measured at baseline and at follow up has been conducted. The aim was to compare the variance of the outcome measure at baseline and follow-up and to compare the variances at follow-up between the treated and the control group. The authors argue that a difference in variances may indicate a heterogeneous treatment effect. General impression. The paper is well written and the results are of interest. The interpretation of the results is somewhat speculative but the authors discuss adequately the limitations. Remarks Abstract, Background : “However, the conventional design of randomized trials assumes that each individual benefits by the same amount.” This is not a correct statement. In a randomised trial, the average treatment effect in the population is estimated, and no assumptions about homogeneity of treatment effects are made here. The authors probably mean that many researchers implicitly assume a homogeneous treatment effect when conducting a randomised trial, interpreting the average treatment effect in the population as treatment effect at an individual level. Introduction. I liked Figure 1 with the different explanations. Methods and flow chart. The target population was parallel randomized clinical trials with quantitative/numerical outcomes. This is not true: trials with a survival time as outcome are also trials with a numerical (sometimes censored) outcome, but are not into the scope of your paper. So please mention that you are interested in trials with a numerical response variable which are measured both at baseline and at followup. In the Flow-chart, please check whether there were indeed 150 trials with a qualitative outcome, or whether there were 150 trials which did not satisfy the requirement of both having a baseline and a followup numerical measurement. Statistical analysis. Here I got lost, the random mixed effects models should distinguish between random variability and heterogeneity, but how was unclear to me. Is adding the variance ratio at baseline needed to correct for the random variability? More details of the models and explanation of the different estimates of the model is needed, and should not only be given in the supplementary material. Did you compare the Var(change) between the treated and control group? Power to detect differences here would be larger. It may be of interest to perform a subgroup analysis in the studies where control is placebo Supplementary material, section 4. The model has two random effects: s_i, the heterogeneity between-study effect and e_i the within sample error with variance nu^2 . I guess this should be nu_i, as each study has its own within sample error variance, estimated form the sample sizes in the two groups (as described in the material)? The supplementary material did not clearly described which parameter(s) from the models reflected the heterogeneity. From the main text I derived that you used the mean effect mu to indicate the amount of heterogeneity. But then how to interpret the parameter tau? Supplementary Table S4. Why not put this Table in Section 4, and make one overview of all the models fitted? And I guess that e_ij should be e_i here. Results: I did not find Figure S1 and Figure S2 very informative. Why not just give a histogram of log(var_OT/var_CT) etc. Table 1: How were the results from the random model obtained (the 11 increased, 19 decreased etc)? Figure 3. Please explain what V_OT, V_OC etc is, as Figures should be self-explained. I did not understand the second paragraph of the discussion. I guess that you want to say that the average treatment effect can be interpreted as an individual treatment effect, but I was confused at first by the words “non-observable patient treatment effect”. Shocking to see that so many studies do not report measures of variability. The fourth limitation: “the random effect model reveals additional heterogeneity”. To which result are you referring here, comparisons at baseline, followup or over time? The estimate of tau? Why should this be the result of methodological accuracies? Figure G is of interest because this is a situation where precision medicine is of interest: for some patients treatment T would be a better choice, for others treatment C and by performing precision medicine the subgroups with different responses could be detected and tailored prescriptions could be given. This indicates that observed homoscedasticity in a study should be interpreted with care and background knowledge of a study is needed to assess whether a situation as in Figure 4 is plausible. 