Saarunya and Ely describe a problem-based bioinformatics course designed to meet a need for “next generation data scientists” in the life sciences, a need identified by many current efforts in life sciences education. Case studies of course development efforts like this can be valuable to those seeking to develop similar courses or incorporate those courses into their curricula and looking for ideas or for pitfalls to avoid. The authors do a good service for the field in putting out their efforts and lessons learned in a form from which other educators can benefit. The specific effort here is a nice example of a small project-focused course serving a cohort with some diversity of backgrounds and immediate training needs. While it presents just one small example, that description might reasonably apply to courses many training programs are developing or would like to develop. In addition to the article itself, the supplementary material includes a full syllabus, lecture slides, assignments, and some supplementary materials, increasing its value to others looking to develop course materials in this space. The authors make a good case for the need for new courses along these lines. They back that need up well with appropriate citations to the relevant literature on life sciences and bioinformatics education. The manuscript provides a good background on prior efforts to characterize the need for bioinformatics training, identify the specific skills required by future life scientists, and how those skills are or are not being provided in practice. The authors further give reasonable consideration to challenges to the design of bioinformatics curricula that they expected to confront in this effort. On the latter point, they might also refer to Williams et al. (2017 1 ), which identified a number of other recurring challenges to bioinformatics education in the life sciences. Others in the field might appreciate the perspective of these authors on whether any of the challenges Williams et al. identified were encountered in their effort and, if so, how they were overcome. The course itself covers a nice range of topics in applied bioinformatics, which might be expected to meet the needs of a diverse set of likely users. The course materials provided in the supplement might therefore find a good audience. One general concern, though, is that the supplementary materials contain some third-party resources, for which it might be more appropriate to include a reference or link rather than the material itself. The teaching approach is fairly applied, with a lot of focus on specific data resources and software, although with some attention to principles behind these resources. While some user communities might favor an approach more grounded in the principles and theory, the focus here seems typical of many bioinformatics courses aimed primarily at biology students. The authors might do a bit more to justify the balance of focus on practice versus theory, with reference to efforts at identifying specific bioinformatics competencies needed by their likely user community, several of which the paper cites. The Results present some interesting material in the form of a pre-class survey and post-class course evaluation material. While the cohort here is a single small sample, some useful lessons can be drawn about the diversity of backgrounds and needs of even a small group like this. The paper would be considerably stronger with some more serious assessment of whether the learning objectives of the course were met. That is a non-trivial undertaking and cannot be done retroactively, but might be worth considering for a future iteration of the class if it is being continued. The materials do include results of a university-run course evaluation, which provide some indication of how students felt about the course, although that is different from showing how successfully they learned the material. This post-class evaluation makes for some interesting reading, although if it is being included with the paper, it might bear some comment in the Results and Discussion. It would be useful also to see some comparison to other similar course material available in publicly accessible forms. While that is a difficult moving target, comparing to a few alternatives from prominent course repositories or MOOCs, particularly to highlight the unusual or especially innovative features of this course, would be valuable. The paper does a nice job of presenting some lessons learned in the Discussion. It is commendable that the authors spend some time on what did not work so well in this class and consider how it might be done differently in the future. One would ideally like to see this taken further via a more comprehensive formative assessment process – with problems identified via a formal assessment, solutions proposed, and those solutions demonstrated to be effective in a re-assessment. It is understandable that that may be beyond the scope of a one-off paper like this, though, and it is nonetheless easy to see how others developing a class in this domain might benefit from the advice given here to avoid some of the same pitfalls. Beyond these more specific technical points, the document is clear and generally well-written. I noted just a couple of minor errors: p. 4: ``International society of Computational biology’’ should be ``International Society for Computational Biology’’. p. 4: ``Regional student group – Southeast USA’’ should be ``Regional Student Group – Southeast USA’’. 