This is an interesting report in a little studied area. It would benefit from a little wider literature review, better characterisation of the CCVD subjects and attention to the multiple tests nature of the analysis. Introduction: Paragraph 1, Last line: Absorption spectra are not really “defective”. They are altered. See Bacon (1971 1 ). It would also be useful to show that you have read Steward and Cole (1989 2 ) and Cole et al. , (2002 3 ). Paragraph 2, Line 10: And their parents. Methods: Recruitment, Line 8: Were the pupils also matched for school (as a proxy for socio-economic matching)? This may also be addressed in Procedure paragraph 3 where you say that they were “class-matched”. Is that also implying school matched? Procedure: Was there an inclusion/exclusion criterion for VA? Procedure, paragraph 2: Was the pass/fail (4 errors) applied to all plates, screening and diagnostic, numerical and tracing? In reality it should only be the screening plates. Daylight – artificial or natural? If artificial, details of source, correlated colour temperature and general colour rendering index. If natural, from which direction? Not that this matters as much at the latitude of KL. Illuminance level? Results: Was any correction for multiple comparisons made? How did you decide if they were deuteranomalous or protanomalous? Strange that there were no dichromats. Or was it that you did not use an anomaloscope and could not actually identify dichromats? In which case you should talk deutans and protans. See also Table 2. Its a pity. Relating the problems to the degree of deficiency would be very informative. Do the dichromats, and strongly anomalous, who generally know, cope better than those who do not or worse because they are more affected? Discussion: Last paragraph: I don’t see the lack of a female data as a limitation. In colour vision it is a fact of life. Also the female CCVD are predominantly deutan and less affected (manifesting the lesser of the two deficiencies that they carry). 