The role of science communicators, their self-perception and their role in a growing of scientific institutions communicating their work to a broader audience is an increasingly relevant issue. Therefore, the approach of the authors to shed light on the opinions and values of science communicators has to be appreciated. The authors should be encouraged to continue in this direction. However, I would recommend strengthening the theoretical background and some of the related research questions, restructuring the analysis of the existing data set in a certain way, and thinking about extending the data set. Actually, the theoretical background of the paper is mainly based on Schwartz concept of universal structures of human values and the theory of news values. However, some theoretical approaches of science journalism and science communication (especially in the sense of science PR) must also be considered more intensively. This may be useful especially to avoid one weak point of the sample which is the rather generalized all-of-the-same definition of a science communicator. When the authors state that it is becoming increasingly difficult to differentiate the roles and work of science PR writers, science bloggers and science journalists this may be true from a non-expert audience point of view but clearly less from a normative perspective. As Rensberger (2009) has pointed out the era of just as I would call it embedded science journalism should be rather a point left behind in history than a suitable approach for today. Interestingly the authors themselves relativize their own initially painted picture of a more or less homogenous universal science communicator type in their own findings: They point out, for example, that traditional news valueswere mentioned less frequently by science bloggers, blog managers and nonfiction book authors than by freelance journalists, university PR writers and editors. Or, in the final conclusion: This choice may depend more on communicators own communication goals and perceptions of other peoples values than solely on their professionally shared journalistic news values. It seems appropriate to focus more on these differences of the which is subject of intense debates in other countries. For example, Martin Bauer Editor of Public Understanding of Science underlines that a [from institutional science PR] independent science journalism is most needed today (Bauer 2013). Also quite recently, all big German Academies of Sciences have published recommendations questioning the role and quality of science communicators of scientific institutions between authentic science communication and just marketing of a scientific institution ( www.leopoldina.org/en/publications/detailview/?publication[publication]=580cHash=fdc9fd538a91f7ccd59866ae6b3e5254 ). Considering such emerging debates and the important theoretical approaches concerning science communication and journalism (as a third frame additionally to the news value and human value theories) the authors may also think about rearranging and analyzing at least the three subgroups of their data set: Actually, 5 interviewees seem to be allocated to the public relation world of science, 6 to (freelance) science journalism. However, in the paper itself the exact role of the 2 interviewees from the blogosphere as a third possible subgroup (Are they blogging scientists or blogging journalist or blogging PR officers?) remains as unclear as the role of the interviewed print editor. If one or more of these subgroups seem to be too in-homogeneous and not consistent in itself it could be also necessary to extend the sample in a more systematically stratified way. As the summed up findings given in the paper for the sample as a whole are often not really surprising, a better carving out of possible differences among the proposed subgroups (journalists, science communicators from scientific institutions, blogger) may deliver even more interesting findings which are especially important considering the outlined theoretical background beforehand: What kind of science communication should and can easily be done by the science communication department of scientific institutions? Where (for example in cases of controversial issues in society) is a blogging scientist or an independent journalist preferable? Which values and anticipated news values are shared by each subgroup and which accordance is rather limited? And finally: How strong are they modulated by the treated scientific topic (e.g., health and life sciences versus astronomy versus engineering etc.), their anticipated audiences and other factors? (concerning the relationship between scientists journalists the public see also, e.g., Peters/Dunwoody et al. ) Of course, some of such analysis is already given in the existing version of the article but often in a rather hidden, implicit way. A more consistent multidimensional analysis alongside the expected and normative functions of the different subgroups may be an amazing approach for the further work in the field. As a minor point concerning the data set it could also be asked how reliable the reported self-perception of the interviewees is. Our own work has shown that there seems to be a certain discrepancy between what journalists believe that they consider as an important news value and what you can finally identify as news values in their publications. A proposal (to be included in this work or for a further development) would be to strengthen the reliability of the findings by combining the interviews with another methodological approach. One way to do so could be a qualitative content analysis including a small controlled sample of publications of each interviewee: Are the news values and human values that can be identified in their pieces of work the same that they have mentioned in the interviews? In any case it should become clear already in the title as well as in the abstract of the publication that we see a very interesting but highly explorative piece of work which has the main focus to develop new methods of looking on the role and self-perception of different (!) kinds of science communicators. Furthermore, it should become clear that the (preliminary) findings are still limited to a case study from North Carolina (or at least a case study from the US). Despite all my (as I hope not too critical) comments I am really looking forward to see a revised version of the paper which has the potential to fill a real gap in the field of science communication research. 