Expanding genome sequence data has led to the discovery of a plethora of hemoglobins from diverse organisms through bioinformatics analysis of signature sequences. The verification of putative hemoglobins from such genomes, however, came only from investigation of recombinant hemoglobins in heterologous system. For way too long we have dabbled in understanding of biochemical, kinetic and structural properties of such recombinant hemoglobins. While such investigations have unraveled key insight and unique features of the novel hemoglobins with hypothesis for putative functions in vivo , a final word on their function is still awaited. The non-essentiality of these genes, their low physiological concentrations and lack of obvious relations to phenotypes has also kept an insight into their functional roles at bay from occasional in vivo genetic studies. A potential source of further insight into these proteins might thus lie in their post-translational modifications, modifications of the heme or their ability to interact with other key proteins in vivo , thus playing key roles at the proteome level. The investigation by Johnson and Lecomte addresses this key issue by characterization of an algal hemoglobin from native source in comparison to its recombinant counterpart. The experiments have been beautifully executed and the conclusions carefully laid down. While several properties of the native protein are indeed similar to the recombinant version, the N-terminal acetylation of the native hemoglobin indeed reveal new opportunities in understanding the function of these classes of proteins. It would have been exciting to see similarities or differences in the kinetic properties (on rates, off rates and ligand binding affinities) of the recombinant and native algal hemoglobins, which can provide additional information into their ligand-dependent functional roles. I am sure that the authors themselves or some other group will investigate this aspect as well in the near future. I am hopeful that this pioneering investigation will inspire other similar studies taking us into yet unknown territories of hemoglobin features and functions. 