The authors describe an application for spectrophotometric analysis of PDE5 inhibitors in counterfeit drugs or food supplements. The application could be interesting in settings where more advanced analysis such as HPLC or LC/MS is unavailable. Major deficits: No validation data at all is presented besides linearity (e.g. detection limits, accuracy, precision, selectivity) The discussion section does not provide a comprehensive discussion at all. The results should be placed into the state of the art, i.e. compared to other methods such as HPLC or NMR. Furthermore, the advantages and limitations of the current research must be discussed. A major limitation is, for example, the lack of a real applicability study apart from one single sample. It is not demonstrated that the method works “in the real world” with all problems regarding matrix interferences or interferences from other similar compounds or isomers. For example, the RASFF system of the EU reports that currently sildenafil thiono analogues have a high incidence in illegal food supplement (i.e. hydroxythiohomosildenafil, hydroxyhomosildenafil and thiosildenafil)[ reference ],[ reference ]. Would such compounds be detected by your assay? The following revisions are required: Throughout: There is a constant mismatch in units, which makes the paper difficult to follow. % should be avoided at all cost and replaced by meaningful units such as g/100 g, while M could be recalculated to mg/L. Throughout: I dislike the non-chemical abbreviation Pi for inorganic phosphate. If the ionic state is known, e.g. PO 4 2- , this should rather be stated. Throughout: please only present significant decimals in numbers considering validation results Title: The title is rather long. Can the two times repetition of PDE5I be avoided perhaps? Abstract, conclusion: The data about “comparable results with HPLC” is not in the paper and should be deleted (or shown in the paper). Introduction, 1 st paragraph, 2 nd last line: “easier detection”. Why is it easier? Compared to what it is easier? The sample preparation appears to be tiresome and could be more complicated than the sample preparation (dilution) required for HPLC or NMR analysis (e.g. see Monakhova Y et al ., 2012 1 ). Page 3, right column, 2 nd paragraph: HCL should read HCl Table 2: mole should read “mol” (or M) but see comment on units above? Table 4: what is the difference between final and actual concentration? Add footnotes Table 5: can the final result be reported as mg/kg? Page 7: “data no shown” for HPLC: why? Figure 1: explain abbreviation rxn 