In this welcome addition to the field of psoriasis transcriptomics, Gulati and colleagues sought to test whether expression of genes involved in immune regulation in transient condition, diphencyprone (DPCP) induced delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH), was significantly different from expression of genes involved in immune regulation of a chronic T cell-mediated disease, psoriasis vulgaris. Employing microarray and qRT-PCR based approaches to profile the transcriptomes from biopsied samples, the authors found that negative immune regulatory genes were significantly overexpressed in the DPCP vs. healthy controls comparison, while such a pattern of overexpression was not observed in the psoriasis vs healthy controls comparison. This lack of overexpression of key negative regulatory genes was found in both the microarray and the qRT-PCR analyses. The authors conclude that the relative dearth of negative immune regulatory genes in psoriasis may be associated with the persistent inflammation found in psoriasis and that strategies to restore negative regulators may have therapeutic implications. This paper is technically sound, with well accepted protocol employed in all wet experiments. The statistical analysis was also performed with well accepted and sufficiently rigorous methodology. The evidence supports the authors central claims. P-values for differential expression analysis were adjusted for multiple hypotheses by the Benjamini-Hochberg method to control for the FDR. We believe that this paper will be of interest to researchers in the field of psoriasis transcriptomics and genetics, as well as the broader fields of autoimmunity and dermatology. The article could be strengthened by addressing the following comments and questions: The authors note that genes with low variation and low expression in most samples were filtered out prior to the analysis. We think that the filtering threshold for variance and expression should be reported as well. Odds ratios are reported in the results but it is not clear how they were estimated in the methods. Furthermore, interpretation of the odds ratios is unclear as well. In Table 1, we have questions regarding the FCH and the p and FDR values. Is the FCH the absolute FC? Is it log2? We think that the labeling should be clearer. What do p and FDR values of indicate? Is it for p and FDR values that are high or low? Could the authors results be confounded by the fact that psoriatic skin has a larger proportion of keratinocytes relative to DTH skin? If the negative regulators were primarily expressed in non-keratinocyte cell types, then biopsy of psoriatic skin compared to DTH skin might show a lower proportion of negative regulators based simply on cell proportions rather than intrinsic immunologic differences. We feel that the biology of psoriasis and DTH (or contact dermatitis) can be expanded upon in the discussion section. For instance, a number of the genes listed in Table 1 are known T regulatory cell signature genes (including CTLA4 and IL2RA; please see Ferraro et al ., 2014 ). Is the transcriptional profile of the observed DTH reaction consistent with the effects of a T regulatory cell effect, for example as described in Rosenblum et al. (2011) ? An apparent difference between the DTH model and psoriasis is that in the DTH model, antigen was transiently given, whereas in psoriasis it is possible that self-antigens are continually expressed. Might this contribute to the observed transcriptional differences? Have the authors examined the transcriptional profile of a DTH model in which antigen is chronically given? 