The authors evaluated the effects of moderately different vaccination schemes on PCV2, concluding there was no substantial difference in the various vaccination schemes. The study is narrow in scope, having used two independent farms for the main treatment difference, and a different vaccine on each farm. These confounding factors limit the generalizability of the findings, which the authors are aware of. It is a common limitation in field studies that is a bit compensated for by the direct applicability of the findings. The lack of replication and the small sample sized are additional limitations that the authors acknowledge. It was a bit surprising that the sow herds were either fully vaccinated or entering gilts were vaccinated. This practice is to my knowledge uncommon in North America since it is obvious that capsid vaccines used only in the farrowing room and maybe the nursery are highly effective in preventing PCVAD in growing pigs. It also is common knowledge that the level of PCV2 viremia in finishing pigs has been reduced tremendously since vaccines were introduced in North America in 2006 (Dvorak et al. National reduction in porcine circovirus type 2 prevalence following introduction of vaccination. Vet Micro 189 [2016] 86-90). For this reason, much of the preceding published literature may be out of date and not relevant to the present situation. There is a wide variation in quality in the published literature that the authors might want to evaluate. Phylogenetics studies with hundreds or thousands of sequences (e.g. Davies. [2016] Diagnostic phylogenetics reveals a new porcine circovirus 2 cluster. Virus Res. 217:32-37) are superior to reports with tens of sequences which often miss important variants due to random chance. The authors also should refer to original and primary reports rather than reviews in citing new discoveries. Minor comments: Methods. Farms and sample selection, 1 st paragraph – The phrase "vaccinated on a weekly basis" is confusing. Perhaps the phrase could be deleted or the vaccination scheme explained a bit more. Discussion. It is incorrect to say that no PCV2 was circulating in the farm, since there were PCV2 positive animals in all treatment groups. It also is clear that PCV2 is environmentally stable, providing for numerous sources of infection in the environment of the pigs (Dvorak et al. [2013] Multiple routes of porcine circovirus type 2 transmission to piglets in the presence of maternal immunity. Vet. Microbiol. 166:365-374.) Discussion. Third paragraph – “In this study, we found differences in the humoral response between vaccinated pigs from Farm A and Farm B over time, mainly explained by the second dose (booster) used in piglets in Farm B and the vaccination schemes used in gilts and the sows.” Because of the confounding factors present in the experimental design it really is not possible to conclude that the booster was the reason for the differences in humoral response. Interestingly, it has been shown previously that vaccination does not necessarily boost capsid-specific antibodies, but does seem to be involved in increasing neutralizing antibody titers. Perhaps, this is dependent upon the vaccine used, which would agree your data. (Dvorak et al. Effect of Maternal Antibody Transfer on Antibody Dynamics and Control of Porcine Circovirus Type 2 Infection in Offspring. Viral Immunology [2018] 31: 40-46.) Discussion. Fourth paragraph – “Fraile et al….”I think you mean non-vaccinated not “none vaccinated”. 