Having reviewed the manuscript prior to reading the comments of the other reviewer, I would concur with most of the points raised so I won’t repeat them. In particular, however, the current version makes it difficult for a reader to: Separate new ideas from those in concordance with previous reports, especially those that came out of the Boston meeting of postdocs; Determine which conclusions and recommendations were coming from the meeting participants vs. the authors; Determine which ideas and recommendations had the strongest consensus behind them vs. novel ideas of one or a few individuals Specific Comments: Introduction First paragraph – It is not really true that research funds are ‘disappearing’. Stating it this way creates a false sense of rapid decline that is not accurate. The bigger change has been on demand side, not on the supply side, as universities keep applying more pressure to faculty to get grants, decreasing institutional support for faculty salaries, and increasing infrastructure costs. This has led to a big increase in the number of applications for the same research pie. Second paragraph – As written, this gives the impression that the postdoc is solely a route to academic research career whereas it is also a route to other research careers in industry and government labs, although it is clear there are many postdocs who aspire to but who will never achieve a research-based career in any of these sectors. Last paragraph – By the end of the introduction, it is still unclear how this event was different than FoR in Boston, whether participants overlapped at all, whether Chicago participants had read the recommendations from Boston, etc. The meeting – How many individuals attended and about how many participated in each of the breakout groups? As a reader one can’t determine if the report represents the collective thoughts of a large or small number of postdocs and others. Part I – To what degree did these keynotes shape discussion, opinion, and what came out in this report? How were they similar or different from speakers in the Boston event? Essentially, to what degree did the choice and messages lead to or influence the findings and recommendations reported here? Part II – Who moderated or led the workshops? Were there any guide questions or structure to them, or was it simply as described – providing opportunities for ideas to be ‘voiced’ via sticky notes which were sorted for themes? Do they have any information on the extent of knowledge of prior publications related to the questions being addressed? This is a potentially important issue if a reader is to determine the degree to which what came out of the meeting was spontaneous ideas which can be triangulated with those previously proposed and published, or ‘commentary’ on those. Theme 1 – new training paradigms – Soft Skills – It is not clear what is meant by these as they can be interpreted in many ways. What are the perceived priorities and how might they be taught? Just giving a link to the Core Competencies is not sufficient to know what the participants raised as important or not. Improved mentorship is a very vague term and difficult to know what to change. Are there issues that came up other than lack of attention and consideration of trainees’ goals? If so, it would be more valuable to cite them rather than generic better mentorship. Theme 3 – Several of the recommendations are actually in place and have been for many years, such as carry-forward of unspent funds from one grant year to another. This is standard practice except in unusual circumstances, only requiring clarification if the amount to be carried forward is more than 25%, and even then it is generally approved with reasonable justification. Also, a great deal of funding is going toward shared resources and core facilities, and if more was to go in that direction it would have to come from some other research line. The recommendation for more F32 and K awards was somewhat hard to grasp given the concerns raised for more emphasis on non-PI careers. Currently, the limiting constraint is the number of tenure-track faculty positions so it is unclear how training more postdocs for these roles will improve the situation. Non-tenure track positions have continued to rise so this is one potential growth area for young scientists, albeit with limited stability. The suggestion that grants from early career scientists should be reviewed separately was actually implemented several years ago for NIH review panels.