The paper describes a semester long bioinformatics course targeting graduate seniors and graduate students who were bench scientists in need for learning how to analyse data generated across different ‘omic technologies’. I find it weird that “The authors haven’t come across a course that incorporates multi-omics data analyses in a single semester.” If not in a single course, some curricula offer multi-omics data tools and analyses spread in more than one course. A comparison of the presented course with such curricula would be of great interest, as well as a discussion on the convenience of integrating such large amount of bioinformatics materials in a Biological Sciences curriculum. There is much discussion in the field on what is the best strategy to incorporate Bioinformatics in Life Sciences curricula and I wonder whether an overload of different topics, techniques, approaches, methods would be successful in contexts where instructor could not work individually with students. Table 3 displays a number of features of the course’s modules. However, a well structured program of each module is missing. As for reproducibility, a lesson plan describing how much time was allocated to each classroom activity (lectures, work in group, hands-on, work on individual projects, types and frequency of formative assessments, etc.) would help. Teaching materials provided in the Supplementary materials are not structured at all. Teaching materials are organised in modules, but navigating modules it is very difficult to understand how to use the various files. There is no homogeneity in file names and a “readme” file describing the content of each folder (and how to use it in reproducing the course) is missing. Slides are not annotated. In summary, materials are not reusable in the current form and the course would not be reproducible based on them and on the information provided in the article. The teaching techniques/strategies used in the classroom were not described/discussed, apart from mentioning the importance of the individual work with students. I think the article would benefit from more details on the course design and from the description of the pedagogical approaches the instructors adopted to teach programming and computational skills to bench scientists. I understand that a key point was the small number of students. Nevertheless, most courses with a small number of students and motivated instructors usually produce successful results. One big challenge is when the number is high. It would be interesting if the authors could reason on how their course could be translated into one for a bigger group of students. What should be definitely changed? Which other strategies could be adopted (peer instruction? Helpers?)? Finally, the authors use a lot of the term “competency/competencies”. There is currently quite a lot of debate around the convenience of using competencies to describe the outcomes of courses. Indeed, competencies can hardly be assessed and mapped on a learning trajectory. By completing a single course, students may develop knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs), which are measurable and accessible objects and the development of which can be followed along a learning trajectory, rather than competencies. Could the authors comment on this? Here are more specific points: p.3 – Re the following sentence: “Practioners of bioinformatics now add techniques from statistics, information science and engineering to develop algorithms and build predictive models to understand the dynamics within a biological system.” In my experience, practitioners of bioinformatics have always added techniques from statistics, information theory and engineering to develop algorithms to predict the functioning of biological systems. The paradigm shift caused by the rapid advances in sequencing technologies is of different kind in my opinion: in the first place, bioinformatics has become the only approach to make sense of the deluge of biological data the authors refer to. Moreover, the storage, management, sharing, annotation, “fairfication” of the enormous amount of data produced, poses important technological challenges and emphasizes the need for new professions. p. 3 – In the sentence: “Practioners of bioinformatics…”, “Practioners” should be changed to “Practitioners”. Please, check the whole manuscript for typos/misspellings. p. 3 – The authors put the sentence: “However, one of the biggest challenges is the heterogeneity of the backgrounds of the course participants” in opposition to the previous one on ISCB competencies (“However,…”). In contrast, I believe that Bioinformatics core competencies listed in Mulder et al. indirectly express the high degree of heterogeneity of backgrounds in bioinformatics. p.3 – Re the sentence: “In fact, there are three different types of user groups that employ bioinformatics in their research”, I would not define Bioinformatics Engineers as bioinformatics users, but rather developers and managers/maintainers of computational tools. p.4, Table 1 – There is another relevant group of bioinformatics practitioners: those who take care of and manage data, bioinformatics resources and their interoperability and develop standards, data quality metrics, ontologies, annotation, etc. The “big data issue” is especially relevant in the “omics” field and, in my opinion, it would be good if the authors could mention this fourth group, even though none of their students did belong to it. p.3, In the sentence: “We sent a three-question survey (Table 2) to all the participants to understand their reasoning for registering in the course.” I suggest that the authors replace “reasoning” with “motivations” or “reasons”. p.3, in the sentence “We also identified the following three course outcomes for the students.” The authors say “course outcomes”. What is a course outcome? I suspect they mean “learning outcomes”. There is quite a lot of confusion in the field around the definition and usage of “learning objectives”, “learning outcomes” and “teaching objectives”. I suggest that the authors replace “course outcomes” with “learning outcomes”. p.3, Re Learning outcomes. The literature provides quite precise rules to write learning outcomes. You can use the sentence “by the end of the course, students will ( NOT should ) be able to” followed by an “actionable verb”, namely a verb expressing an action or a behaviour that can be (at least in principle) assessed. The verbs used in learning outcomes I (“identify” and “implement”) are of this type, whereas some verbs used in II and III are not (“be comfortable”, “elicit”). Moreover, it is a good practice to write learning outcomes that are as much specific as possible in terms of both the cognitive complexity level they express and their content. For example, in learning outcome I, “identify” and “implement” express two different levels of cognitive complexity and learning outcome II includes a large variety of contents. p.3, Learning outcome II. What do the authors mean by “command line programming”? Do they mean “Linux shell scripting” or “navigating files and directories using the command line shell”? To be able to use R statistical packages implies to be able to do (at least some) R programming. I suggest that the authors specify this. p.4, the footnote of Table 2 is misleading. What does it mean that the authors did not have the information about programming experience in the pre-class survey answers? Did they asked question 1 in the pre-class survey (as stated in the manuscript) or in class (as stated in the footnote)? Were the 7 responses about programming experience? If so, this means that the authors got 2 answers in class and 7 answers in the pre-class survey. Is this correct? Or the pre-lab survey is another thing? Very confusing. Table 2. Survey questions sent out to the students - As question 1 is about “programming experience”, please notice that “using bioinformatics software” is not “programming”. For consistency with answers to questions 1 and 2, please specify the distribution of answers to question 3. p.4, Re the sentence: “Based on the responses of the students, we assigned potential user groups as explained in Table 1 at the start of the class with their expected competency levels at the end of the class.”, I have three main concerns: 1) I don’t see where competency levels at the end of the class are listed (unless the authors are now calling “competency levels” what they called “characteristics” in Table 1. Should this be the case, in no way can students acquire the characteristics listed in Table 1 by completing the course described in this paper; 2) Competencies are yes/no objects, which means either an individual has a competency or they don’t have it. Therefore, it may be problematic to talk about “competency levels”; it may be perhaps more appropriate to talk about knowledge, skills or abilities (KSAs) levels; 3) If by “class” you mean a series of lectures on a subject, could you specify at the end of which class (a module? The entire course?) you defined “expected competency levels”? As a side note, a single class can possibly increase the level of a KSA, surely not allow students to acquire a competency. p. 4: in this sentence: “Successful completion of the project assigned to every student by the end of a course module determined their competency of the course.” It is not clear what do the authors mean by “competency of the course”. Do they mean that the competency acquired in a module determined students’ competency in the whole course? p. 6: In the sentence: “We determined the competency of a student per module by their successful completion of the problem set and or the project.” what do the authors mean by “successful completion of the problem set and or the project”? There were students who did not successfully complete the project? How did instructors grade them? 