The authors present a workflow for working with the 70,000 processed RNA-seq datasets that form the recount2 project, using R, and seek to expand on the details presented in the original recount2 publication by describing how coverage count matrices were computed in recount2. I'm always slightly confused about the point of these workflow papers - this kind of example workflow information seems better suited to the R package vignettes, and for this reason I sometimes find them awkward to review. In addition, a considerably similar set of example workflow information (albeit somewhat less well described) has already been published in the supplementary information for the original recount2 publication from the same authors (doi:10.1038/nbt.3838, specifically see Supp. Text Figures, and Supp. Notes 3 4) 1 . Indeed, the supplementary info there goes further than this workflow in describing how to compare results from recount2 across several studies (Supp. Note 5). Personally I found the workflow example here somewhat convoluted and difficult to follow in places but I am sure the community will find it useful in helping to use the recount2 resource and perhaps the nature of such an example workflow presented on real data for a package such as this. Happily, however, the authors also present substantially new and more detailed information in a few key areas. In particular the description of how the recount2 read coverage matrices are computed is useful and interesting and the example showing how to supplement the project metadata with additional information is useful. Specific Comments: 1. I don't really like the use of pseudo-maths equations for Eq1 2 - I'd like to see the words replaced with algebraic variables with meanings explained in the text. 2. The scaled read counts are not the same as the actual mapping read counts that are typically required by downstream DE tools (which then typically apply their own appropriate normalization to these numbers). I'd like to see recount2 provide the actual mapping read count for features in addition to the scaled read counts. That said (and if I’m understanding things correctly) the manuscript here is a description of what the format of the recount2 data is and that has already been published - so I'm not expecting this to be changed. 3. I really don't understand the sentence: "Not all differentially expressed genes have differentially expressed exons." Surely this is the definition of a DE gene?? I absolutely agree that "Moreover, genes with at least one differentially expressed exon are not necessarily differentially expressed" - differential transcript usage is a prime example of where this can happen - but if a gene is DE I'm pretty sure that it must have a DE exon. 4. I don't see the need for figs 28-36 - a single example of the plot type should be sufficient I think for an example workflow. 5. It would be nice if recount2 could also provide information at the transcript level. Have the authors considered augmenting recount2 with salmon quantifications for all the data? (big job and more of a 'feature request' really). 