Martn et al. present an interesting work on the role of plant cytidine deaminases (CDA) as a defense mechanism against virus infection through the increase of mutational load in the viral genome during replication. CDAs are known to increase the frequency of G to A transitions. Although such mutational load has been shown to be a effective defense mechanism against some animal viruses (mainly retroviruses), this paper shows for the first time evidence that support a similar role in plants against a plant pararetrovirus. As such, I consider the paper scientifically sound. I find the paper well written and easy to read, and I would like to acknowledge the effort made by the authors on this aspect. The methodology is well described and all the information necessary to understand the experiments is provided. On this sense, I would just suggest adding complementary information on the number of leaves from the N. bigelovii agroinfiltrated with each At CDA. This would help to understand the degree of biological variation considered in the study. The main conclusion of the manuscript is that overexpression of At CDA leads to a decrease of viral load. I think that this conclusion is robustly supported by the data presented in the result section, and statistics are flawlessly performed and described as is the rule in the work from Prof. Elenas group. A second main conclusion of this work is that higher viral load may be associated with the trend towards reduced frequency of G to A transitions in plants with silenced AtCDA. The authors are careful on drawing conclusions from this observation, given that the observed trend is not statistically significant. I was wondering whether the effect of the bias in G to A transitions might not be quantitative but rather qualitative. In other words, it might be interesting some discussion about the existence of a threshold in the frequency of G to A transitions bias that may lead to the reduction in viral load. My last suggestion relates to the observation that mutations at position 181 accounts for most of the G to A transitions. This makes me wonder about the spatial distribution of mutations (especially G to A transitions) across the viral genome. I think that including some information on whether mutations are mainly localized in coding or non-coding regions, and on whether mutations located in coding regions results mainly in synonymous and non-synonymous changes may be a nice addition. Perhaps this information may help to understand the effects of G to A transitions in the genome “functionality”. 