There are some grammatical errors that need correction and other errors in the article that need to be addressed. In the Introduction " Although Vietnam is among the most-at-risk countries for HIV1, the government has responded to HIV epidemics" .. it is not clear whether this statement was meant to mean that the Government has responded well or appropriately to the Epidemic, kindly relook at this statement and also delete 'S' from epidemic unless you meant multiple "The total number of HIV infections treated with ARV was increased to 60.000, an increase of 25 times compared to the end of 2005". I would recommend rewording this statement to something like "The total number of HIV infected persons on antiretroviral therapy increased to 60,000 in December 2011, a 25 fold increase compared to the end of 2005. Last statement in the Introduction: Within the framework of the Global Fund supported project on HIV/AIDS, we conducted this study to interpret results after collecting HIVDR EWIs at 42 HIV/AIDS treatment facilities in 25 northern provinces of Vietnam in 2012. The results of this study evaluate HIV/AIDS treatment effectiveness based on care and treatment national indicators. Recommend that you reword this statement for better clarity...... for example, "We collected and analyzed data on HIVDR EWIS in 42 HIV/ AIDS treatment facilities in 25 northern provinces of Vietnam in 2012. The results of.... " Methods section How were study facilities selected? Of the over 300 ART sites, how did you select 42 sites? Was it random, was there some form of stratification? Were there nationally representative? Please describe this Ethical approval: was given by Vietnam Authority of HIV/AIDS Control (VAAC). For my own purposes just clarifiying that this provides ethical approval for studies? Variables and measurements: I think this section should be clearly on definition of some of the indicators e.g what did arriving on time for doctors appointment mean? Did it mean attending appointments on or before the appointment date or was there some allowance of some time or grace period after appointment date. Secondly why is the data analysed only for one quarter and not for the entire study period for this indicator and not over 12 months as two of the other indicators or is this how data was collected. Results section I am not clear why the data is presented in Table 1 and 2 because both refer to clinic performance Secondly there is inconsistency between the methods section and results section. The methods section talks about 5 indicators including "availability of antiretroviral drugs in facilities" but no clear data is presented for this indicator in the table. How was this indicator defined? If the team was using WHO EWI indicators, these are clearly defined and they should make a reference to that The second statement in results section is confusing: " Regarding the availability of antiretroviral drugs, EWIs for HIVDR showed that 7/42 facilities did not reach the target of patients receiving prescriptions for ART, congruent with national guidelines". It is unclear what results this section is referring to ... does availability mean stock outs? If so what does patients receiving prescriptions for ART mean - this suggest correct 1st line regimen? I suggest that you define in the methods section what you mean by each indicator and then be systematic in presentation of results from 1st to last EWI as per table flow. I still cannot find the results for availability of ART at health facilities. Discussion section Paragraph 2 " Third, health care providers in ARV facilities should ensure that there are no ARV drug shortages in order that patients are sufficiently provided. It is important to ensure a minimum of 80% of patients receive ARV drugs as scheduled. This could be performed by enhancing outpatient records to track medication dispensing history" ... This does not seem to be supported by any data presented in the results section. Recheck , there is no data presented on stock outs and neither do the presented results suggest there were stock outs. As such it doesn't seem to me that this point is very relevant to the discussion. Keep the discussion to your findings Conclusion The conclusion suggests that all targets were met by the OPCs , however this is not supported by the data. Target for prescribing according to guidelines is 100- only 83% of clinics met target Target for patients arriving on time for appoitments is 80 %- only 73% of clinics met this target 