The centromere protein CENP-C is well known as an essential component for functional kinetochore assembly. Due to importance of this molecule, CENP-C must be conserved in Fish species. The author performed BLASTP searches with the conserved CENP-C motif sequence, but any CENP-C homologues in Fish lineages were not identified with this sequence. However, as there is a putative CENP-C sequence in shark genome, BLASTP searches were carried out with C-terminal domain sequence of putative shark CENP-C. Then, the author identified CENP-C candidates from various teleost genomes. Although the author does not show that candidate proteins localize to centromeres, these candidates contains related sequences of CENP-C motif, which were a little divergent from the vertebrate consensus sequences. Interestingly, the authors found that various vertebrate M18BP1s, which are recruited to centromeres by CENP-C, contain the CENP-C motif sequence, but mammalian homologues do not contain the motif sequence. This is an observation article and finding of the CENP-C motif in the M18BP1 sequence is interesting. However, to improve the quality of the paper, the author should revise the manuscript. My specific concerns are following. As the author recognizes, it is necessary to verify whether CENP-C candidates from teleost genome really localize to Fish centromeres. As the author obtained a candidate from Zebrafish genome, such an experiment is not difficult with the Zebrafish experimental system. If the author added localization data, Figure 2 would be interesting. Related to Figure 2. If the author shows sequence comparison of Cupin domain in teleost sequences, it would be helpful. When the author discuss about central region of human CENP-C, it may be better to cite a recent paper by Nagpa l et al. (Mol. Biol. Cell, 2015), which says that central region sequence does not exist in chicken CENP-C. Then, the author can emphasize that the central motif is really important for CENP-A binding. The author described some results of the analysis in the Introduction. This is not necessary and it would be better to cut of redundant description. 