This paper examines integration levels of MNCH and FP services in hospitals in two states in India and a hospital and health centers in two counties in Kenya. The strength of the paper is the use of multiple data sources (qualitative and quantitative) to inform the analysis on an important topic. A limitation of the paper is the small sample of facilities in each country which means it is not possible to determine if some facilities (e.g., hospitals or health centers) are more amenable to integration than others. Related to this is that the selection of facilities suggests a preference for higher performing (on integration) facilities and thus, even though not all the included facilities were highly integrated, the results cannot be generalized across other similar types of facilities. An additional limitation includes that it is not possible to distinguish whether the findings are indicative of higher/lower integration and/or higher/lower quality of services. Quality discussions are notably absent from the paper and might be worth including since integration is a component of higher quality services. Below I highlight a few other comments: The authors mention the India government initiative to have dedicated PPFP counselors in health facilities. The authors fail to note if the included India facilities have a dedicated counselor or not and if this is correlated with the level of integration observed in this study. More detail is needed on the measurement of integration. The description of “as done in other studies” is vague and not informative enough for this paper. Table 1 – the median age of participants is provided – is this for clients or for all study participants including providers and key informant interviews? I expect this is just for clients and thus this should be clarified. Table 2 – you talk about “dark gray” but in the formatted version of the table, it is not clear what is “dark gray.” Also, do you need a “facility overall” column that is inferred in the text? For the quotes, it would be useful to know if the respondent is in a high, medium or low integrated facility. This is included with some but not all the quotes. The text starts with “All MNCH clients” when it is discussing Table 3, however, Table 3 only includes ANC clients. Make sure this is clear in the text (and possibly explain why only the ANC clients are shown). The consistent and affordable supply of FP and the provider bias sections are particularly relevant to the quality of care issue mentioned above. Quality could be raised in the introduction to help tie integration to quality and the issues in this section. The explanation of the inconsistent results in India relate to client volume (which makes sense), however, this is the first time that client volume is mentioned in the paper. Given that all facilities in India are hospitals, I wondered how client volume plays into the results. Can client volume be discussed earlier. Also, are some of these hospitals private and others public and does that affect integration (and quality)? For Kenya, it explicitly says that public facilities were included but this detail was not found for India. 