The analysis of shadow libraries usage data is not a trivial matter, and requires some caution, especially when someone tries to understand the processes that produce these usage numbers. The article is very modest in its aims, and hopes to present only a very basic analysis of the Sci-Hub usage, but I believe more could have been done in terms of the analysis, and more caution should have been used in when offering explanations. During the analysis, I think the logic of Sci-Hub allows us to distinguish between two processes: the one that produces the collection, and one that consumes the collection. Articles get into the Sci-Hub collection when someone bumps into a paywall, and turns to Sci-Hub to circumvent it. This means that the corpus of Sci-Hub is indicative of works that have limited accessibility. When analyzing the corpus, the distribution of publishers, and topics, one should look at it from this perspective, and check, for example the open access policies of the most highly represented publishers, or journals, and analyse the results not just within the sci-hub universe, but against the whole population of articles/journals/publishers/topics, including those with widespread open access policies. The download numbers, on the other hand, represent the demand for an article. I would argue that articles with only 1 download only inform about the accessibility (someone met a paywall, and downloaded the article from sci-hub), while articles with more than 1 downloads actually suggest some things about the demand (how many individuals were interested in that article/discipline). On that note I missed the geographic analysis, especially as some data on the location of the download was also available in the original dataset. Regarding the interpretation of the data. I think the analysis in the Who’s reading? section is not substantiated by the data in any manner. On the contrary, while the data covers all downloads, across all the globe, the interpretation relies on a US census. I don't think that is appropriate. Local usage is structured and explained by local characteristics of higher education, research, and economy. One should not generalize a US explanation to the whole dataset. The analysis in the Non solus section is also misleading. It makes claims about the academic publishing space in general, while the sci-hub data is biased, as it only contains articles with accessibility problems. Articles, journals and publishers with no accessibility problems are probably missing from, or are heavily underrepresented in the dataset, thus one cannot come to any conclusion on the state of academic publishing. Take the case of PLOSone as an example, on why the current analysis is flawed. As a result, the validity of the overall conclusions is limited. 