I have read the previous two referee reports, which were made several months ago, so I will try to confine myself to new points. Overview: This paper is acceptable but needs improvements, including a better narrative. In its current state, it will not be easy for a reader to know exactly how the paper adds to the current state of knowledge. The presentation is a little confusing, sometimes focused on the negative result that there is no hippocampal MMN, sometimes on the claim that there is no awake-rat MMN at all, sometimes on habituation of auditory ERP components that can be observed. The strands of all these stories should run throughout the report, including the Introduction, Results, and Discussion. The authors seem to claim that they show that there is no MMN in the awake rat (Our conclusion that no auditory MMN exists in non-anesthetized Rats). This claim needs further justification and clarification. Introduction: The introduction should better set out what has been established about the electrophysiological correlates of the hippocampus in novelty, and why it might be reasonable to test if there is a hippocampal MMN. For instance in the rat, the species examined here, various investigators find increased theta power and/or reduced theta frequency and/or theta reset in novelty. (Theta reset is important to their arguments on the bottom of page 7.) In humans, Knight (1996) produced evidence that a P3 component of the novelty reaction was hippocampus dependent. These and other such evidences would link the hippocampus to novelty, and where available to mismatch novelty, and perhaps suggest some larger novelty-related function of the hippocampus. This kind of intellectual context would improve the paper. The introduction should then go on to set out a better rationale for why specifically the authors thought the MMN should be studied in a rat, and why they should look in the hippocampus for this. To my knowledge, it is not a standard current view to suggest that the hippocampus might be a generator of the MMN, but presumably some kind of case can be made? Much more reference to the literature is required. If the aim was simply to detect a rodent MMN, why not look at the auditory and frontal cortex? Electrical and magnetic recordings in human subjects have localized the MMN generator to the auditory cortex, although a frontal component has also been observed. In addition, there are some speculations on subcortical generators, especially the hippocampus, but those cannot be indisputably verified in noninvasive recordings 5,6. " This is misleading. The last two references are not attempts to detect hippocampal origins of the MMN. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to address a number of unresolved issues related to MMN in the rat. First, anesthesia was reported to attenuate MMN in the cat 7 . Therefore, we wanted to test whether MMN can be evoked in freely moving rats 14,15 rather than in the anesthetized preparation 11,12 . Second, we compared the event-related potentials (ERPs) recorded using cortical and hippocampal electrodes to reveal a possible hippocampal generator. Third, to distinguish between MMN and long-term adaptation to standard auditory stimuli as suggested by Lazar and Metherate 13 , we repeated the oddball stimulus set on two daily sessions and on consecutive days. Fourth, to shed light on the neuropharmacology of MMN, we manipulated the cholinergic input to the cortex and hippocampus by systemic administration of scopolamine." Add test/rewrite to incorporate the idea that the paper does not have ANY results about the MMN, and to study the auditory-evoked components that are seen. Methods: "The hippocampal electrode closest to the pyramidal cell layer and the right parietal cortical electrode were selected for the final analysis of evoked potentials" How was it determined which electrode was closest to the layer - purely by histology? Did this turn out to matter much? "The rats were involved in an EEG study for three weeks before the current study on evoked potentials." The procedure of the previous study should be briefly described in a supplementary note together with a comment that they think the other study made no difference to this (assuming the authors think that). "In total 10 rats were recorded for the study but due to poor signaling some channels, the number of records in the analysis varies from 6 to 9." What were the minimum threshold criteria used to determine acceptability of signal? Results: I would suggest splitting up the results by cortical and hippocampal regions even more to avoid ambiguity and perhaps using results headings which summarise the results. That might improve the readability of this paper. The figures and indeed main text should state more clearly what values are being entered into averages and so on. E.g. Figure 2, it says averaged AEPs. How many trials per rat, how many rats, an equivalent number of trials per rat? Figure 3 and Results text 2 nd paragraph in Repetition effect on the responses: " The cortical response to the standard tones reached the original (or higher) amplitude of Day 1 , in Experiment 1 (Figure 3). The ANOVA for repeated measures revealed significant enhancement of cortical P60 [F(1,6) = 12.9, p = 0.01] and P110 (p = 0.03) components between Day 3 of Experiment 1 and Day 1 of Experiment 2." I suggest they use a different statistical symbol than a star to make this point in Figure 3, emphasising the between-experiment changes. The star is already used. Table 2 legend. What is the measure being correlated (one amplitude value, mean amplitude over a set period?), and from which datasets? How does the n= 94 and 76 break down? Discussion: "Our conclusion that no auditory MMN exists in non-anesthetized rats contrasts with another studies conducted in anesthetized rats 11,12,20 . " Overclaiming? On what basis can the authors say that no auditory MMN exists in non-anesthetized rats, when they have not recorded from the auditory cortex? Or are they claiming they did sample the auditory cortex in some way? See the queries in Reviewer Rosburg Point 3b. 