In this paper, the authors attempt to elucidate the role of IGF-I in the astrocyte-mediated protection of neurons against oxidative stress. While this is an important topic and the authors present a lot of interesting data, the paper is unfocused and the results do not fully support the conclusions. As such, I feel that the paper cannot be approved for indexing until substantively revised. Major comments: The paper presents three essentially independent sets of data and then tries to connect them into a single coherent story, without direct experimental evidence that it is appropriate to do so. Specifically, Figs. 1 and 2 present evidence that IGF-I plays an important role in the astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection, both at baseline conditions and under oxidative stress; this is the most interesting part of the paper (and the part that is most relevant to the paper’s current title). Figs. 3-6 show data that elucidate some aspects of IGF-I effect on astrocytes, but do not establish the importance of these effects/mechanisms for IGF-I- and astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection. (Notably, the authors have actually established that one of these mechanisms, IGF-I-induced decrease in the expression of astrocytic TXNIP1, does not play a role in the astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection. Surprisingly, these key results are not shown despite the fact that an entire figure [Fig. 6] is devoted to the IGF-I modulation of TXNIP1). Finally, Fig. 7 shows that IGF-I and SCF applied together (but not separately) have a neuroprotective effect in the absence of astrocytes and that their expression is increased in an in vivo stroke model. However, the authors again fail to show that these observations are in any way relevant for the astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection shown in Figs. 1 and 2. To connect these currently unconnected experimental threads, the authors need to use their neuron-astrocyte co-culture system to establish the link between astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection and (1) IGF-I-mediated increase in the expression of astrocyte antioxidant enzymes, (2) IGF-I-mediated decrease in the astrocyte ROS levels, and (3) astrocyte secretion of SCF; the experiments should be performed both at baseline and under oxidative stress conditions. Alternatively, the paper needs to be re-written in a way that makes it very clear (1) that the data presented in the paper represent a series of independent observations that do not add up to a coherent whole and (2) that the mechanism mediating IGF-I-induced neuroprotection in the mixed neuron-astrocyte environment currently remains unexplained. If choosing this route, the authors should also change the title of the paper to something more neutral and descriptive. The authors do not show some important experimental data, ostensibly “for clarity”; these data need to be included in the revised paper. Specifically, as already stated in point #1, the authors mention (but do not show) that depleting astrocytes of TXNIP1 does not result in increased neuronal survival (page 16). This finding, if properly established, indicates that the IGF-I-mediated decrease in TXNIP1 and the IGF-I/astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection are two entirely unrelated phenomena. Given the paper’s overall title and conclusions, this is a key experiment that needs to be shown. Similarly, it is important to show the results of IFG-IR DN experiment performed under oxidative stress conditions (page 7). In many experiments, the authors do not use appropriate statistical analyses. Specifically, given the experimental design, two-way (rather than one-way) ANOVA should be used to analyze data shown in Figs. 1B-C, 1D (after missing data are included), 2A-E, 3A-D, 4A-B, and 6B. Fig. 8 (the model) does not accurately represent the experimental results. For example, the authors state in the Fig. 8 legend that “ under basal conditions IGF-I exerts potent neuroprotective actions directly onto neurons ” when in fact, IGF-I has no clear neuroprotective effect when applied to neurons cultured alone (Fig. 3A, 0 M H 2 O 2 condition) – the IGF-I-induced decrease in neuronal cell death is small [~5% based on the graph] and does not appear statistically significant, although the authors do not comment on this one way or the other. Similarly, the figure legend mentions that IGF-1 down-regulates astrocytic TXNIP1 – a finding that is accurate but not relevant for the astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection illustrated by the figure. Thus, Fig. 8 should either be altered to more meaningfully represent the paper’s findings or, if the authors decide to re-write the paper in a more descriptive fashion, could be eliminated altogether. Minor comments: Why are neurons cultured under depolarizing conditions (25 mM KCl)? The co-culture experimental set-up should be described under a separate heading, not buried under “ Cell assays ”. For similar experiments, the authors should use a similar type of plot to make the paper more readable. For example, experiments in Figs. 3A and 3B have a very similar overall design – why are the results shown very differently? Neuronal viability is established by counting “ all GFP-positive cells ”; the authors therefore need to show that their neuronal cultures are at least 95% and preferably 99% pure (i.e., do not contain a significant population of GFP-positive glial cells). Representative flow cytometry plots should be included in Fig. 4A. To enhance readability, all figure panels should be labelled “astrocytes”, “neurons”, or “neurons + astrocytes”, as appropriate. (The information is currently largely buried in the figure legends.) In Fig. 5, authors should specify whether they are measuring mRNA or protein level (I assume the latter, but it’s difficult to be sure). 