The present manuscript describes a mass spectrometric study of Bacillus subtilis lipids in which possible intermediates in the biosynthesis and D-alanylation of type I lipoteichoic acid are detected. In general, the title is appropriate, and the abstract provides an adequate summary of the article. The conclusions are based on the raw data presented. My major critique is that the author actually does not show the presence of the pathway, he only detects molecular ions my MS that might be pathway intermediates. The other comments should be addressed to improve the manuscript. Comments: Abstract: I think the word “possible” should be added, “Here I report the use of mass spectrometry in the identification of possible intermediate species…”, because although that it is very probable that this is case, strictly speaking, it has not been shown. Abstract: In the same sense, I think it is preferable to write “…D-alanyl-phosphatidyl glycerol should aid in…” Introduction: It should be specified that the author refers to type I LTA. Introduction: The first part of the introduction is very simplified, for example no lipid A is mentioned, nor the modification it can suffer to make it less anionic. I suggest rewriting and improving this paragraph. Figure 1 and 5: Double bonds should look identical in the figures. Strictly speaking the authors don’t show that it is D-alanine in the detected structures. Results/Discussion: What does the author think is the explanation that the new species only can be detected after a cold extraction? Methods: Why do the authors add sodium acetate to the growth medium before centrifugation of the culture? Page 2, left column, middle paragraph: I think it should say “adenylylation” not “adenylation”, because it is an AMP-transfer. Page 2, left column, middle paragraph: Instead of “The functionally uncharacterized DltB appears to be an integral membrane protein…”, it would be better to write “is predicted to be…”. Page 2, left column, middle paragraph: It should say “O-acyltransferase”, not “o-acyltransferase” In the legends to figures 3 and 4, it should say “acid” not “aicd”. Methods/Results: Why are the electronvolts sometimes “+” and sometimes “-“ Tables 2 and 4: The abbreviation FA for fatty acid should be explained. Page 8, left column, middle paragraph: The word “smaller” should be deleted. I agree with reviewer one that P is probably a better abbreviation of the phosphate group. 