While this revised version has improved, I still have some issues with this manuscript. Importantly, the comments by reviewer 1 weren't all fully addressed. Moreover, the manuscript contains many statements that are not supported by any references, and ideas that are not adequately explained. For instance: 2nd to last sentence of the introduction: Who is "our"? Your paper tries to prove the opposite, so "our" is not "we". Do you mean "It is generally assumed that rice enhances overall CH4 emissions from paddy fields."? In that case, please add a reference to support this statement. 2nd paragraph of introduction: "Therefore, an established theory has emerged that CH4 is not emitted from the soil without rice." This statement needs a reference. Page 3, top of right column. First time you mention “ebullition”. The text hasn't explained yet what this means, and how important this process is for overall CH4 emissions. Page 3, top of right column: "Since it is known that organic matter incorporation causes CH4 emissions to peak during the early stages of rice growth". Reference needed. Page 3, right column: "Although ebullition has been little studied, ebullition must occur at high emission levels." Why? Please explain and provide references. Page 5, left column: "High-emitting paddies of CH4 emissions, which exist widely across tropical Asia…". Reference needed. First sentence of the conclusion: "Most studies of CH4 emissions in paddy fields have been conducted in fields with low overall emission levels." Again, no reference provided. A reference to a review article showing that this is true would help. The text is unclear in several places. For instance: Abstract: "our results in high-emitting paddies suggest that methanogenesis depended mainly on soil organic matter accumulated from past crops." How did you come to this conclusion? Abstract: "The higher the methane emission level, the lower the contribution of the rice-derived substrate". How does this interpretation follow from your own results? Last sentence of introduction: "It will be epochal if present the fact that rice plants decrease overall methane emission in paddy fields." The meaning of this sentence is unclear. Results, line 9: Why is "ebullition" between quotation marks? Page 4, left column, top paragraph: "The decrease around the heading stage was caused partially by an increase of emissions in rice-planted areas, and mainly by the erratic emissions in the unplanted area." If this decrease is erratic, then how can we be sure that the high emissions earlier in the growing season aren't erratic as well? How can we be sure that high emissions before planting in the unplanted plots are not erratic? Page 5, top of right column: "We observed CH4 emissions in 18 paddy fields (26 17 m each) under several conditions for 5 years from September 2011." Where are these data reported? If you don't report them, then why mention this? The earliest data that are reported in this manuscript are from 2016. Page 5, top of right column: "In the present study, we used three fields for replication." Are these fields the same fields that were described above (i.e. 26*17 m in size)? This is not clear. The article still contains quite a few grammatical errors or poor structure. A few suggestions: Abstract, methods section: Delete "of" to write "methane emissions with and without rice plants". Last sentence of intro: "We hypothesised that rice plants decrease overall methane emission based on the extremely high emission levels." First sentence of the results section would be a good place to mention study location. 2nd sentence of results: "Our results showed that rice presence decreased CH4 emissions by half." Page 4, right column: "This suggests that methanogenesis at our site mainly depends on soil organic matter that has been accumulated from past rice crops." Last paragraph of results section: Change "huge" to "large", or "substantial", and provide references to support this statement. 