The paper describes protocols for assessing the efficacy of Wolbachia releases on reducing dengue incidence based on data from release trials conducted in municipalities in Columbia. The Wolbachia has been released into 6 adjacent zones covering a sub-area, where 3 of the zones have early releases and the other 3 have later releases – the zones which receive late releases are regarded as non-intervention arms for the purposes of the trial analysis. It is always difficult to measure the efficacy of vector control interventions using randomized trials because of community level effects such as herd immunity, so that the intervention has impacts on both treatments and controls, and the estimated effect of the intervention is diluted – an effect known as contamination. In the case of Wolbachia releases, the effect is particularly difficult to quantify because the Wolbachia may spread to mosquito populations in the control arms, or Wolbachia may only have an intermediate (and variable) prevalence in the intervention arms. The trial described in this paper has additional complications which the authors describe in the manuscript, including the non-random allocation of intervention clusters and the small size of the study area with intervention arms adjacent to control arms and no buffer between them. The authors explain that these limitations mean that a pragmatic approach to analysis of Wolbachia efficacy is required. I think the paper would benefit from a more rigorous quantitative protocol for how intervention efficacy can be quantified in the presence of contamination (see Silkey et al . 2016, Trials 1 ). The power calculation that the authors provide doesn’t explore impacts of contamination, or impacts of incomplete spread of Wolbachia in the intervention arm. In addition the issue of herd immunity should be pointed out in the paper. It seems that given the configuration of the release zones, an effective Wolbachia intervention could greatly interrupt dengue transmission in the non-intervention (later release zones) as well, thus making efficacy very difficult to evaluate. I find the Wolbachia Exposure Index proposed for individual participants (to account for their movements outside/into release zones) to be problematic. Aedes aegypti have a very heterogeneous local distribution, and I don’t think variations in exposure can be calculated using travel histories – these estimates are likely to be misleading at best. Regarding the interrupted time series approach, I think a more detailed and formal mathematical description of the method is needed, detailing the sampling distribution of the infection data with respect to the location of Wolbachia interventions, and the statistical model for handling spatiotemporal autocorrelation. It does not seem straightforward to distinguish the effect of Wolbachia from non-related fluctuations in disease incidence caused by environmental factors. More explanation of how this will be achieved is required. Please put a scale on the map in Figure 1. 