The study evaluated the eye symptoms and the lacrymal production of traffic police officers in Kathmandu, Nepal, a city with high levels of air pollution. As the study refers to the effects of air pollution on the ocular surface of traffic police officers, it is necessary to mention the average concentration of air pollutants during August 2017, mainly PM 2.5 and NO 2 . Vehicles are generally the main responsible for the emission of nitrogen oxides, since in Kathmandu vehicular traffic seems to be very intense, the additional information about these air pollutants is essential as part of the study. In addition to the air pollutants, I suggest mentioning the meteorological data, such as humidity and temperature, since these climatic factors may influence the clinical parameters of the ocular surface. The study was conducted during the hot and rainy season. In this period there is an increase of allergies and conjunctivitis and among the symptoms, an increased frequency of itching, foreign body sensation and photophobia. In addition, the use of fans and air conditioning is greater. All these factors could influence and favor the appearance of symptoms and the increase of OSDI score. Thus, in future studies, it would be interesting to carry out the same tests and ophthalmologic examinations during the dry season in the same group of traffic police officers. Besides that, OSDI checks the symptoms during the last week. The reproducibility of symptoms of the OSDI questionnaire at different periods could be indicative of the prevalence of symptoms for a long period due to air pollution exposure and could be more certainty correlate with the working time in the traffic. I suggest that the correlation between the OSDI score and working time should be mentioned with caution in the text, once this is a cross-sectional study. I recommend the availability of an OSDI table describing the frequency of symptoms in the attachment. The authors mentioned very well the limitations of the study. Despite the application of only two ophthalmological parameters (OSDI questionnaire and Schirmer test), I recommend the indexing of the article since studies about the effects of air pollution in areas of high air pollutant levels, as in Kathmandu, it is necessary to evidence its effects on the ocular surface and to strengthen public policies in this area. I suggest minor language revision. 