It is very important that also negative results get published, especially failures to replicate previously published data, in this regard, this paper is welcome. However, I feel that the results and conclusions are presented in an unnecessarily negative light. Although several sites are involved, many of them report essentially pilot data with a very low n. For pm-TOR, the apparently most thorough study from the Alkermes group robustly confirmed the finding of Li et al. at 30 min after ketamine (12 rats in the ketamine and control groups, P= 0.0109) and the other group studying the same time point (Pfizer) found an almost significant increase (P=0.0509) with only 5 and 3 animals in ketamine and control groups, respectively, begging for a replication with higher n. In the Servier/Karolinska/INSERM lab, the assay does not seem to be working, with almost 4 fold differences between samples in the control group and there are too few rats for any clear conclusions. So the only site where the results were clearly not replicated was AbbViel lab, assayed at 1 h after ketamine. To me these data provide evidence that ketamine increases pmTor at 30 min after ketamine, as reported by Li et al, but apparently not at 1 h or later. As pointed out by the authors, phosphorylation events are sensitive and may take place rapidly which may contribute to the finding that pmTor as the mediator of ketamine effects may not be as robust as the initial studies suggest, but altogether I find that the data is presented and discussed in unnecessarily negative light. One source of variation between the groups in the consortium and between them an others is what gets included into PFC. I am wondering whether the consortium attempted to standardize their dissection, at least this was not discussed. The consortium has listed a long list of antibodies used, but data is shown only for 3 targets. Why is that? Please publish the rest of the data as well. In sum, I do not think that this study represents "failed attempts to establish ketamine's effects", rather it provides suggestive, albeit not conclusive evidence that pm-Tor levels are increased by ketamine at 30 min, but perhaps not later. The authors correctly point out that methods should be described better