These authors present an unusual case of an obese, pregnant woman at 13 weeks gestational age who presented with perineal hypesthesia and partial loss of motor function in her right lower leg. An MRI showed an L5-S1 herniated nucleus pulposus that required emergency decompression. The authors discuss their anesthetic management of the patient and review the current literature. Title: The title should be re-worded because the patient did not have cauda equina syndrome (which usually includes partial or full loss of control of bowel and bladder sphincters, and may include painful paresthesias), and the word should only be used as an adjective. A more appropriate title would be: Anesthesia for emergent lumbosacral discectomy and nerve decompression in an obese parturient at 13 weeks gestation . Case report : Again, the term cauda equina should be removed. The list of potential difficulties in administering anesthesia to an obese, preterm parturient needs to be elaborated in detail. There is no mention of consenting the patient for the MRI, including the risks of MRI to the developing fetus. The patients sensorimotor radiculopathies represent a neurosurgical emergency; medical therapy in this setting does not conform to the standard of care and should not have been offered as a valid alternative therapy. To conform with their discussion points, the authors should have obtained an obstetric consultative evaluation. The absence of preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative obstetric consultations should be explained. The failure to detect twin gestations at 13 weeks of age, despite having an MRI, needs to be discussed. It appears that epidural and/or spinal anesthesia were not considered or offered as an alternative to general anesthesia, nor were these two anesthesia techniques compared for their relative risks and benefits to the mother and her fetus. The authors should mention that spinal anesthesia produces decreased fetal drug exposure and decreased maternal blood loss, compared to general anesthesia. What was the patients airway evaluation? Many obese parturients have difficult airways that can pose life-threatening problems with hypoxemia and failure to intubate after induction of anesthesia. How was the anesthetic induction managed? What drugs were used? What happened to her oxygenation, ventilation, and hemodynamics on induction of anesthesia? Why were sevoflurane and remifentanil chosen for maintenance of anesthesia? What advantages or disadvantages does this regimen have over other choices? In an obese patient, the prone position would seem to be the only reasonable choice by the neurosurgeon. Abdominal compression is just one consideration in the safe positioning of an obese, pregnant patient prone on the operating table. What are the other concerns? Could the fetal heart rate be monitored externally? If so, then why wasnt fetal heart monitoring employed intraoperatively? What would be the expected fetal heart rate pattern? Exactly when was the twin gestation diagnosis made? Why wasnt that diagnosis made earlier? Could the radiation from the MRI, or the effects of surgery, anesthetic drugs, or the prone position have any potential effect on halting the growth and development of the unborn twin? Discussion: It would be useful for the authors to distinguish known safety concerns in this setting from factors that are unknown and untested. This section should be shortened. The Nakai reference should be dropped because it was done in awake patients near term gestation. No comparative study of OR tables for the prone position of pregnant patients has been done. It is inconsistent to review a study that used intraoperative fetal monitoring without commenting on why it was not used on your study case patient. None of the referenced studies involved preterm gestations or obese parturients. ASA guidelines are worth referencing, but not one from Korea based on a single study of ten patients. Conclusion: What did you do differently throughout the perioperative period to manage these problems that were unique to your case? Where did you succeed? After reviewing the literature, how do you see your case enhancing our knowledge of neuroanesthesia during pregnancy? Since there are no studies comparing regional versus general anesthesia in this setting, no conclusion can be made about their relative benefits and risks. Abdominal compression alone is not the only major concern with the prone position. What are other concerns and how are these assessed and managed? What would you do differently or better in the future to provide the safest level of care? Can you suggest further research that is needed?