This article describes how innovative, participant-driven research projects can create an interesting data set outside the traditional Academy. This is an extremely laudable goal and the resulting data will be of interest to a broad audience. In its current state the article is a hybrid between data note, methods article and research article that delivers preliminary results. Regardless of the form of the article, the methods section would benefit a lot from a more detailed description of the methodology (see details below). Similarly, the analyses and results are a bit lacking at this stage, especially with respect to the basic metrics of the data sets (again, see below). Major comments Methods the methods section should be significantly improved/extended for a better understanding. I'm aware that most/all the things are on GitHub , but having to crosslink these makes it hard to follow. Specifically the following things should be improved upon: What modifications were done to the protocol of the ZR Fecal DNA MiniPrep kit? (suggestion: putting the modified protocol to https://www.protocols.io/ if deemed useful) Which parameters were used to perform the bwa alignment? What was the size of the reference database that was used for the mapping? How was the hierarchical clustering done that is described in the methods section? Which clustering method was used? Which distance measure was used? Results "We obtained an average library size of 600K reads (min 350K, max 2400K)" This is a rather large difference between the different libraries. Does the number of species found correlate with the sequencing depth? I.e. would you have found more species if you had sequenced more data for the smaller libraries? A rarefaction analysis would be useful to understand the impact of sequencing depth on species recovery. A minor, related suggestion: Having a table of sequencing statistics so that the reader can compare the samples. A major thing that is not mentioned in the results/discussion is the number of reads which could not be mapped against the reference database. How many reads of each library did not belong to any of the reference ITS sequences? And are the non-mapping reads similar to each other or can be clustered into OTUs? This would be needed to understand how many species/OTUs are in a given sample but could not be classified due to a lack of reference database. Without this the ITS diversity in a sample cannot be correctly estimated. Minor comments: "we built the proof of concept for a targeted metagenome analysis pipeline for beer samples that can be used in high schools, citizen science laboratories, craft breweries or industrial plants" It would be good to at least briefly discuss how this is currently limited by the need to have access to a high-throughput sequencer. It would be great if " terroir " could be defined in the introduction for those not too familiar with oenology "a total of 88 fungal species were identified, including 52 unique occurrences" are unique occurrences those species which are only found in a single beer? I'd suggest rephrasing it for a better understanding. "Interestingly, most brews were found to contain low to medium presence of multiple other yeast species, including Saccharomyces bayanus (used in winemaking and cider fermentation), Saccharomyces kudriavzevii and Saccharomyces pastorianus (used in lager manufacturing), Saccharomyces eubayanus (a probable parent of Saccharomyces pastorianus) and Brettanomyces bruxellensis (typically used for the production of the Belgian beer styles)" please include citations for these explanations of the different taxa. It's a matter of taste, but I recommend rethinking the use of "microbial dark matter" , c.f. http://merenlab.org/2017/06/22/microbial-dark-matter/ for an explanation of why. 