Lee et al. present a case study of using Bioconductor packages to recapitulate an existing analysis. The analysis is performed without the need to worry too much about genome versions and using tools from tidyverse which were previously incompatible with standard Bioconductor methodologies. I see this being a useful reference for experienced users on how to run a modern RNA-seq analysis and perform data integration. I am pleased to say that I could re-run the code and reproduce the results presented. I can think of a few potential changes to increase its utility for beginner Bioconductor users. The article assumes quite a lot of knowledge of tidyverse and GenomicRanges to understand the code chunks. Some pointers to where people can get more help on these packages would be useful. Some code chunks explicitly call methods from dplyr (dplyr::mutate), but not all. It would be good to be maintain consistency when calling dplyr methods, as the user would know where to get help. The authors go straight from creating the DESeq dataset to running the differential analysis. In reality, one would never do this without performing adequate QC checks. I'm sure the authors must have done this (as indeed the original study authors must have). But showing the code to generate a PCA would be useful; along with interpretation of the results The code is shown to remove genes with low counts prior to the DESeq analysis. I thought this was no longer necessary as DESeq2 incorporates it's own filtering. Or is this a memory-saving exercise? Some justification of why 10 counts and 6 samples was chosen would be beneficial to those new to Bioconductor and RNA-seq. The authors use Genomic ranges to facilitate the integration of different assay types. Whilst it is critical to keep the data in this form for analysis, ultimately collaborators will want the results in spreadsheet format with recognisable gene names. It would be useful if the authors could include an example code snippet to annotate the overlapping regions (e.g. with gene symbols) and exporting as a csv. It is my understanding that the authors present a simpler approach than that of Alasoo et al (2018) 1 in order to illustrate the utility of Bioconductor infrastructure. Nevertheless, some commentary on whether the same results and biological insights are revealed by their approach would be beneficial. 