This paper succinctly reviews antibody-related problems that have been widely recognized in the biological and biomedical community, in a specific context of anti-histone posttranslational modification (PTM) antibodies and their uses in epigenetic research. The authors correctly emphasize the large negative impact of the batch-to-batch variation of anti-histone PTM antibodies and its consequence ('large data sets in chromatin biology exist in a “grey” area outside of natural science, since it is impossible to repeat the underlying experiments.'). I generally agree with the current challenges described in this paper, but it could be improved by addressing the following points. An important omission in the paper is the limited recognition by users of potentially large effects of the mismatch between validation methods and real applications. We can perhaps agree that antibodies should ideally be validated in a manner that closely mimics how it is used in the actual application. Validation methods can be divided into two general types based on their formats: one in which antibodies are immobilized and captured antigens are detected ("immunoprecipation (IP) type") and the other in which antigens are immobilized and captured antibodies are detected ("blotting type"). Peptide arrays and Western blotting fall into the latter blotting-type validation methods, in which peptides or denatured proteins are localized, often at high density, on a solid support and binding of dilute antibody samples is detected. To state the obvious, IP-type methods are suited for validating antibodies for IP-type applications (IP, ChIP), whereas blotting-type methods are suited for validating antibodies for blotting-type applications (Western, immunostaining). Potential problems arise when the validation format is different from the application format. It is not easy to predict whether antibodies validated using blotting-type methods perform well in IP-type applications such as ChIP, and vise versa. Egelhofer et al . (2011) reported that more than 20% of antibodies that have been validated to be specific in peptide blots still fail in ChIP experiments. In typical IP applications where an antibody is immobilized on a solid support, antibody affinity is a critical parameter. In contrast, affinity is not critical in blotting type applications, because the bivalent format of the conventional antibody (i.e. two antigen-binding sites per molecule) helps boost binding (the so-called avidity effect). Indeed, it has been found that an antibody that looked good on peptide arrays performed poorly in IP and conversely another antibody that did not look good on peptide arrays performed exceedingly well in IP (Nishikori et al., 2012). Similarly, an antibody (Active Motif 39156) performed well in IP validation using semi-synthetic nucleosomes ("IceChIP"), although it appeared cross-reactive in peptide-array validation and in Western blotting (Rothbart et al. , 2015). Further complications arise from the fact that spot intensities in array-type experiments are not quantitatively correlated with the strengths of the measured interactions (see, for examples, Stiffler et al ., 2006; Hause et al. 2012). Another omission is that validation and actual results depend on experimental conditions and accordingly an antibody validated under one set of conditions may not perform as well under a different set of conditions. Practitioners of immunoblotting are all familiar with the need for "optimizing" conditions for their own experiments. Similar optimizations are needed for other types of applications for which desired outcomes are less obvious. Furthermore, the abundance of the antigen of interest relative to off targets influences the outcome. Even a highly selective and potent antibody may not sufficiently enrich extremely rare antigens. Accordingly, for IP-type applications, mass spectroscopy-based validation using IP with input materials similar to those used in actual experiments (Peach et al ., 2012; Hattori et al., 2013; Marcon et al. 2015) and IP of semi-synthetic nucleosomes (Grzybowski et al., 2015) are better suited as validation methods. This paper should emphasize more that the end user must critically evaluate limitations of validation methods caused by format mismatches and/or variations in experimental conditions. I do not agree with this paper's recommendations that a single set of information be provided with any antibody regardless of its intended use. References 1. Egelhofer TA, Minoda A, Klugman S, Lee K, et al.: An assessment of histone-modification antibody quality. Nat Struct Mol Biol . 2011; 18 (1): 91-3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Nishikori S, Hattori T, Fuchs SM, Yasui N, et al.: Broad ranges of affinity and specificity of anti-histone antibodies revealed by a quantitative peptide immunoprecipitation assay. J Mol Biol . 2012; 424 (5): 391-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Rothbart SB, Dickson BM, Raab JR, Grzybowski AT, et al.: An Interactive Database for the Assessment of Histone Antibody Specificity. Mol Cell . 2015; 59 (3): 502-11 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Stiffler MA, Grantcharova VP, Sevecka M, MacBeath G: Uncovering quantitative protein interaction networks for mouse PDZ domains using protein microarrays. J Am Chem Soc . 2006; 128 (17): 5913-22 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Hause RJ, Leung KK, Barkinge JL, Ciaccio MF, et al.: Comprehensive binary interaction mapping of SH2 domains via fluorescence polarization reveals novel functional diversification of ErbB receptors. PLoS One . 2012; 7 (9): e44471 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Peach SE, Rudomin EL, Udeshi ND, Carr SA, et al.: Quantitative assessment of chromatin immunoprecipitation grade antibodies directed against histone modifications reveals patterns of co-occurring marks on histone protein molecules. Mol Cell Proteomics . 2012; 11 (5): 128-37 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Hattori T, Taft JM, Swist KM, Luo H, et al.: Recombinant antibodies to histone post-translational modifications. Nat Methods . 2013; 10 (10): 992-5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Marcon E, Jain H, Bhattacharya A, Guo H, et al.: Assessment of a method to characterize antibody selectivity and specificity for use in immunoprecipitation. Nat Methods . 2015; 12 (8): 725-31 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Grzybowski AT, Chen Z, Ruthenburg AJ: Calibrating ChIP-Seq with Nucleosomal Internal Standards to Measure Histone Modification Density Genome Wide. Mol Cell . 2015; 58 (5): 886-99 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Koide S. Reviewer Report For: Quality of histone modification antibodies undermines chromatin biology research [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1160 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7827.r10962 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1160/v1#referee-response-10962 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 11 Jan 2016 Albert Jeltsch , Stuttgart University, Stuttgart, Germany 11 Jan 2016 Author Response We agree with the general conclusions of this reviewer that validation methods and protocols need to be adjusted to the planned applications. However, it should be noticed that the main ... Continue reading We agree with the general conclusions of this reviewer that validation methods and protocols need to be adjusted to the planned applications. However, it should be noticed that the main aim of this short opinion paper was to further raise concerns and contribute to a move towards better documentation and sustainable reagents in chromatin research. The current state is that antibody documentation is widely insufficient and the reagents are often not sustainable. We propose to improve this situation step by step. It would be an important advance for the field to have a panel of standardized quality documentation data available for each antibody lot. This includes data in different formats, which will allow users to select the most relevant information for their experiments. To take up the point of this reviewer, we included a hint that validation methods must reflect the intended application of antibodies. Defining the best format of quality checks will be an ongoing challenge for the entire field. We already expressed a preferences for the application of recombinant modified nucleosomes as validation method in chromatin biology in the original version of the manuscript. Another very important improvement for the field would be to have more recombinant affinity reagents, which are fully sustainable. However, we like to mention that we are not fully convinced by the statement that the differences in technical formats (blotting vs. pull-down) is the only or main reason of differences in antibody performance between certain assays. One additional, very critical, difference is that short peptides are used in many validation assays (for practical reasons) but real applications deal with the pull-down of full histone tails. Moreover, we are not convinced that the development of special conditions by each lab is an advisable development, because in many cases these may not be fully documented which - again - would undermine reproducibility. While it is self-evident that the researchers are ultimately responsible for the validity of all their results, lab internal quality certifications in our view are not the best way to proceed in an ever growing experimental field. We agree with the general conclusions of this reviewer that validation methods and protocols need to be adjusted to the planned applications. However, it should be noticed that the main aim of this short opinion paper was to further raise concerns and contribute to a move towards better documentation and sustainable reagents in chromatin research. The current state is that antibody documentation is widely insufficient and the reagents are often not sustainable. We propose to improve this situation step by step. It would be an important advance for the field to have a panel of standardized quality documentation data available for each antibody lot. This includes data in different formats, which will allow users to select the most relevant information for their experiments. To take up the point of this reviewer, we included a hint that validation methods must reflect the intended application of antibodies. Defining the best format of quality checks will be an ongoing challenge for the entire field. We already expressed a preferences for the application of recombinant modified nucleosomes as validation method in chromatin biology in the original version of the manuscript. Another very important improvement for the field would be to have more recombinant affinity reagents, which are fully sustainable. However, we like to mention that we are not fully convinced by the statement that the differences in technical formats (blotting vs. pull-down) is the only or main reason of differences in antibody performance between certain assays. One additional, very critical, difference is that short peptides are used in many validation assays (for practical reasons) but real applications deal with the pull-down of full histone tails. Moreover, we are not convinced that the development of special conditions by each lab is an advisable development, because in many cases these may not be fully documented which - again - would undermine reproducibility. While it is self-evident that the researchers are ultimately responsible for the validity of all their results, lab internal quality certifications in our view are not the best way to proceed in an ever growing experimental field. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 11 Jan 2016 Albert Jeltsch , Stuttgart University, Stuttgart, Germany 11 Jan 2016 Author Response We agree with the general conclusions of this reviewer that validation methods and protocols need to be adjusted to the planned applications. However, it should be noticed that the main ... Continue reading We agree with the general conclusions of this reviewer that validation methods and protocols need to be adjusted to the planned applications. However, it should be noticed that the main aim of this short opinion paper was to further raise concerns and contribute to a move towards better documentation and sustainable reagents in chromatin research. The current state is that antibody documentation is widely insufficient and the reagents are often not sustainable. We propose to improve this situation step by step. It would be an important advance for the field to have a panel of standardized quality documentation data available for each antibody lot. This includes data in different formats, which will allow users to select the most relevant information for their experiments. To take up the point of this reviewer, we included a hint that validation methods must reflect the intended application of antibodies. Defining the best format of quality checks will be an ongoing challenge for the entire field. We already expressed a preferences for the application of recombinant modified nucleosomes as validation method in chromatin biology in the original version of the manuscript. Another very important improvement for the field would be to have more recombinant affinity reagents, which are fully sustainable. However, we like to mention that we are not fully convinced by the statement that the differences in technical formats (blotting vs. pull-down) is the only or main reason of differences in antibody performance between certain assays. One additional, very critical, difference is that short peptides are used in many validation assays (for practical reasons) but real applications deal with the pull-down of full histone tails. Moreover, we are not convinced that the development of special conditions by each lab is an advisable development, because in many cases these may not be fully documented which - again - would undermine reproducibility. While it is self-evident that the researchers are ultimately responsible for the validity of all their results, lab internal quality certifications in our view are not the best way to proceed in an ever growing experimental field. We agree with the general conclusions of this reviewer that validation methods and protocols need to be adjusted to the planned applications. However, it should be noticed that the main aim of this short opinion paper was to further raise concerns and contribute to a move towards better documentation and sustainable reagents in chromatin research. The current state is that antibody documentation is widely insufficient and the reagents are often not sustainable. We propose to improve this situation step by step. It would be an important advance for the field to have a panel of standardized quality documentation data available for each antibody lot. This includes data in different formats, which will allow users to select the most relevant information for their experiments. To take up the point of this reviewer, we included a hint that validation methods must reflect the intended application of antibodies. Defining the best format of quality checks will be an ongoing challenge for the entire field. We already expressed a preferences for the application of recombinant modified nucleosomes as validation method in chromatin biology in the original version of the manuscript. Another very important improvement for the field would be to have more recombinant affinity reagents, which are fully sustainable. However, we like to mention that we are not fully convinced by the statement that the differences in technical formats (blotting vs. pull-down) is the only or main reason of differences in antibody performance between certain assays. One additional, very critical, difference is that short peptides are used in many validation assays (for practical reasons) but real applications deal with the pull-down of full histone tails. Moreover, we are not convinced that the development of special conditions by each lab is an advisable development, because in many cases these may not be fully documented which - again - would undermine reproducibility. While it is self-evident that the researchers are ultimately responsible for the validity of all their results, lab internal quality certifications in our view are not the best way to proceed in an ever growing experimental field. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Rothbart SB. Reviewer Report For: Quality of histone modification antibodies undermines chromatin biology research [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1160 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7827.r10993 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1160/v1#referee-response-10993 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 03 Nov 2015 Scott B. Rothbart , Center for Epigenetics, Van Andel Institute, Grand Rapids, MI, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7827.r10993 Antibody reliability in biomedical research is of utmost importance. The quality of these reagents in chromatin biology applications is of particular concern given their position as essential tools for most techniques characterizing the cellular abundance and genomic distribution of histone ... Continue reading READ ALL 