Dear authors, This manuscript will benefit from more additional revision and amendments as follows: - The usage of HGVS nomenclature was not done in a correct way. Please refer to the following links: http://varnomen.hgvs.org/recommendations/DNA/variant/substitution/ ; http://varnomen.hgvs.org/bg-material/numbering/ ; http://varnomen.hgvs.org/recommendations/protein/variant/substitution/ ; Simply, the authors did not follow the HGVS guidelines instead they added more numbers to what they already have (lot of numbers that bring lot of confusion). Please note that the current version of HGVS nomenclature is v15.11, which means that previous published work follow different nomenclature rules or simply do not follow previous HGVS nomenclature. Generally, the use of different nomenclature parameters, will not generate different or altered nucleotide position as the authors stated in the discussion section (The SNP found in the present study, n.1299AG, ……, but with a different nucleotide position 1186 (A/G) which is being more consistent with the nucleotide sequence transcript accession U14680.1). At the end it is the same nucleotide at the same position with the same predicted effect. And when following HGVS nomenclature the use of only one numbering method with only one Reference Sequence is mandatory. Subsequently, the discussion would be for the findings only not for numbering systems. If after making the necessary normalization, a mutation was found to be in a different position, then it will constitute a different mutation. The use of only one Reference Sequence is mandatory, to avoid confusion and to make it easy for others to track the documented mutations (in this case either NG_005905 or NM_007294). In this regards, please note that the coding sequence in the GenBank: U14680.1 start at 120 and the 119 constitute the 5'UTR (un-translated region) and the coding sequence in the NCBI Reference Sequence: NM_007294.3 start at 234 and the 233 constitute 5'UTR. When applying the above-mentioned criteria to the NCBI Reference Sequence: NM_007294.3 as the authors stated, I found that the reported novel mutation (V1736D; n.5439 TA), would be BRCA1 c.5206TA of the reference sequence NM_007294.3 not c.5207TA. Note that at position 5207 there is a c “Cytosine”. (5401 taaagaaaga aaaatgctga atgagcatga ttttgaag t c agaggagatg tggtcaatgg) The 5206TA was previously described in breast cancer patients from China 1 . Hence it is important to verify this before judging this variant as previously novel/unpublished/unreported. The status of the Q356R is still the same without further evidence to support pathogenetic effect against the vast majority of evidences to be classified as polymorphism as in the cited references in the first peer-review report. The authors relay only on bioinformatic tools which was widely recommended that “these programs should not be used to decide, in the absence of other tests or arguments, whether the sequence variation found in a patient is or is not responsible for the disease” 2 . No screening in control population for V1736D variant was conducted. This variant was detected with a frequency of 3/9 (33.3%, one patients was excluded for sequence error) and regarded as a pathogenetic mutation based only on bioinformatics studies. Which is not acceptable giving the claim of pathogenetic role, novelty “without previous reports to be cited” and its high frequency (3/3, 33.3% occurrence). In many part of the manuscript there is many comments (The mutated residue is located in a domain), which domain and what is the predicted change on function? Was not resolved and still need amendments! The introductory part about SNPs page 3, third paragraph, second sentence. Was partially re-written but still very hard to follow and without clear focus i.e. SNPs approach or mutation screening these two concepts intermingle randomly across the manuscript. The germline mutations have to be mentioned first, SNPs would be next…. The rs1799950 part is not really part of the introduction and the entire section about the rs1799950 has to be moved to the discussion section. In the introduction part the authors stated that “In the US, it was estimated that there were approximately 232,670 new cases of BC and 40,000 BC deaths in 2014” is not relevant and should be replaced with the data (incidence rate, prevalence…..etc) from Khartoum Cancer Registry 3 and data (percentage and total cases reported) from published hospital records from Sudan (reviewed by Awadelkarim, K.D. et al . 4 ) and data from other African countries (similarities and dissimilarities) with specific emphasis on Sub-Saharan Africa, including Nigeria, Chad, Sudan, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Niger, Namibia, Congo, Kenya, and Somalia 5 . This concord with the peer-review report of Dr. Chaabouni-Bouhamed, which I think went without response. In the introduction the authors stated that “Two genetic studies have been conducted in Sudan concerning BRCA1” and mentioned three studies. Please correct. Also a detailed mention/description of the mutations reported is mandatory i.e. the type, name, frequency, designation (neutral, pathogentics, unknown significance). In the introduction the authors stated that “These regions and their selections were based on the quality of available primers (e.g. best GC content, adequate length, according to previous literature), previous local research findings revealing frequent mutations within exon 11, and the cost.). I think this phrase should be omitted. Because it is misleading; first the primers were not of good quality as stated (Primer 1 was excluded, three patient sequences of primer 2 set and one patient of primer 3 set were also excluded because of sequence errors, Figure 1 with evident PCR smear), second only founder mutation could justify the adoption of specific molecular screening strategies 6 , and in the absence of such founder effect the recommended strategy is to screen the entire BRCA1/2 coding sequences, including intron-exon boundaries (complete coverage). When adopting such comprehensive strategy, a note that there is still many mutations will be missed like genomic rearrangements (that could contribute to the homozygous BRCA1/2 variants observed in the series), mutations in regulatory sequences and epigenetic alterations is warranted. Still the paper has the PCR figure with a smear. If no good image is available, this figure could be removed as DNA sequence chromatogram were provided. Not resolved! I also agree with Dr. Balbaa that PCR figure with a smear should not be allowed here. The actual laboratory work need (Methods section) to be re-written with more clear and straightforward approach …,45 blood samples collected and DNA extracted. Three sets of primers were used. So I expect about 3X45 sequences (135 PCR and sequencing products), but learned later that 10 samples were selected for each primer (30 PCR products), and later learned that Primer 1 was excluded from the study (Page 7 second column, first paragraph, line 1) for errors that have been noticed with all patients sequence data. My understanding now changes that this study is based on 20 PCR products that was sequenced to generate the results. But learned later at the end of the discussion that three patient sequences of primer 2 set and one patient of primer 3 set were also excluded because of sequence errors, and my understanding changes again that the total is 16 PCR products (20-4=16), which were sequenced to generate the results. The exclusion rate is 46.7% (14/30) for primers; what is the exclusion rate for patients (45 patients collected and DNA extracted)? Saying the selection was base of primer quality seems odd, given 46.7% exclusion rate due sequencing errors. In short, I found that the conducted work was on 16 PCR products, which could be OK, but has to written this way from start and in all related sections (Abstract, Material and Methods …etc). Another question from mutation screening point of view; does each patient have two amplicons? Or the selection was random leading to more than 10 patients in total, with some having two amplicons and others only one amplicon? This has to be clearly stated. Why the excluded primer (Primer 1) still have all the computational analysis documented. In Figure 3 nonsense should be changed to missense. The notion in the discussion that the c.5090GA, p.Cys1697Tyr was predicted computationally is not entirely correct because this variant was analyzed in a control population of 180 individuals (111 males and 69 females) and was classified as variant of unknown clinical significance (VUS) (Table 1, Biunno I, et al . 7 ) and these authors conclude that the p.Cys1697Tyr is most likely responsible for BC in a very lightweight form “We also confirm that pathogenic BRCA1 mutations occur in unselected Sudanese premenopausal BC patients and report at least one new variant, in the BRCT domain, most likely responsible for BC”. The discussion of the previous detected variants the authors stated the “Two novel variants were identified to be deleterious” and mention three, please correct. Citing Awadelkarim KD, et al. 8 and Biunno I, et al . 7 . What about the findings from the previous cited reference Elnour AM, et al . 9 . Indeed Elnour AM, et al . was not able to name and/or did not report any specific BRCA1.2 mutation and should be discussed accordingly. The mean age has to have standard deviation (SD). What are the cutoff used for early onset and late onset breast cancer? Why a women with an age of 80 years got BRCA1 mutation screening, because rates of BRCA1 and BRCA mutation testing are increasing in young women (younger than 40 years) 10 and the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines recommend that women diagnosed as having breast cancer at 50 years or younger undergo genetic testing (National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) clinical practices guidelines in oncology: genetic/familial high-risk assessment: breast and ovarian. Version 2.2015. http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/genetics_screening.pdf ) All the three primers were selected for their quality performance, what does this mean? Which are the parameters? Primer 1 was excluded? Saying the selection was base of primer quality performance seems odd, given 46.7% exclusion rate due sequencing errors. The product size of the first and last primers were checked and assessed using Serial Cloner version 2.6.1 (http://serialbasics.free.fr/Serial_Cloner.html) on the known nucleotide database accession gene for BRCA1 (NG_005905) with the whole sequence size of 81189bp, both forward and reverse of each one have been found to determine regions that cover coding and non-coding sequences; could be deleted as it seems out of context, but if the authors feel it has to stay in the paper please move it to the bioinformatics section. The PCR products of the 10 best band yielded from ….etc. which are the parameters? Exclusion criteria? In the last part of discussion the authors stated that “Two patients within the present study were screened previously in a local study targeting pathological SNPs within BRCA2 gene selected regions, which identified a stop codon (L1053X). One of these patients was the youngest patient identified with Q356R, and the other presented with the bilateral disease and identified with V1736D. This co-occurrence should assist in the classification of BRCA mutations. Because co-occurrence in trans with a known BRCA1 deleterious mutation is widely considered one of the criteria to designate unclassified variant as neutral 11 - 13 and should be discussed accordingly. I have some concerns regarding the phrase “the literacy levels of the patients”. Because most, if not all, of the patients come with care-givers who could help in obtaining ethical consent, and the literacy level in Sudanese women is in range of 40%. Please re-write/re-consider. References 1. Haitian Z, Yunfei L, Jian Z, Jian L, et al.: Mutation screening of the BRCA1 gene in sporadic breast cancer in southern Chinese populations. Breast . 2008; 17 (6): 563-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Tchernitchko D, Goossens M, Wajcman H: In silico prediction of the deleterious effect of a mutation: proceed with caution in clinical genetics. Clin Chem . 2004; 50 (11): 1974-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Saeed IE, Weng HY, Mohamed KH, Mohammed SI: Cancer incidence in Khartoum, Sudan: first results from the Cancer Registry, 2009-2010. Cancer Med . 2014; 3 (4): 1075-84 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Awadelkarim KD, Mariani-Costantini R, Elwali NE: Cancer in the Sudan: an overview of the current status of knowledge on tumor patterns and risk factors. Sci Total Environ . 2012; 423 : 214-28 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Jemal A, Bray F, Forman D, O'Brien M, et al.: Cancer burden in Africa and opportunities for prevention. Cancer . 2012; 118 (18): 4372-84 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Claes K, Poppe B, Coene I, Paepe AD, et al.: BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutation spectrum and frequencies in Belgian breast/ovarian cancer families. Br J Cancer . 2004; 90 (6): 1244-51 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Biunno I, Aceto G, Awadelkarim KD, Morgano A, et al.: BRCA1 point mutations in premenopausal breast cancer patients from Central Sudan. Fam Cancer . 2014; 13 (3): 437-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Awadelkarim KD, Aceto G, Veschi S, Elhaj A, et al.: BRCA1 and BRCA2 status in a Central Sudanese series of breast cancer patients: interactions with genetic, ethnic and reproductive factors. Breast Cancer Res Treat . 2007; 102 (2): 189-99 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Elnour AM, Elderdery AY, Mills J, Mohammed BA, et al.: BRCA 1 & 2 mutations in Sudanese secondary school girls with known breast cancer in their families. Int J Health Sci (Qassim) . 2012; 6 (1): 63-71 PubMed Abstract 10. Rosenberg SM, Ruddy KJ, Tamimi RM, Gelber S, et al.: BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutation Testing in Young Women With Breast Cancer. JAMA Oncol . 2016; 2 (6): 730-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Gómez García EB, Oosterwijk JC, Timmermans M, van Asperen CJ, et al.: A method to assess the clinical significance of unclassified variants in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes based on cancer family history. Breast Cancer Res . 2009; 11 (1): R8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. Goldgar DE, Easton DF, Deffenbaugh AM, Monteiro AN, et al.: Integrated evaluation of DNA sequence variants of unknown clinical significance: application to BRCA1 and BRCA2. Am J Hum Genet . 2004; 75 (4): 535-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Judkins T, Hendrickson BC, Deffenbaugh AM, Eliason K, et al.: Application of embryonic lethal or other obvious phenotypes to characterize the clinical significance of genetic variants found in trans with known deleterious mutations. Cancer Res . 2005; 65 (21): 10096-103 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Awadelkarim KD. Reviewer Report For: BRCA1 novel variation V1736D and in silico analysis of SNP Q356R in Sudanese patients with breast cancer [version 4; peer review: 1 approved, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :1461 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14182.r27621 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1461/v3#referee-response-27621 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 24 Jan 2018 Alsmawal Elimam , Postgraduate College, Al-Neelain University, Khartoum, Sudan 24 Jan 2018 Author Response Dear Referee 3: Dr.Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim Thank you for your valuable continual support and efforts through additional notes and recommendations Important notes to be considered in response to your last notes and ... Continue reading Dear Referee 3: Dr.Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim Thank you for your valuable continual support and efforts through additional notes and recommendations Important notes to be considered in response to your last notes and recommendations: Although Human Genome Variation Society nomenclature has been followed in order to provide more consistency with the literature, the later filled with different mutation nomenclatures, whether the HGVS has been followed or not, most of that could be attributed to the nucleotide reference sequence variations describing the same alteration with nucleotide position variation while the protein still intact to act more specifically to describe the change. The differences mostly have been observed came as a result of the nucleotide alteration in positions as mentioned above could be attributed to, i.e. BRCA1 nucleotide accessions include six known variants transcripts (NM_007294, NM_007300.3, NM_007297.3, NM_007298.3, NM_007299.3 and NR_027676.1) in addition to the U14680, they posses different size bp and this could explain the variations in the nucleotide position of the same variant among the literature. HGVS assisted to minimize such variations by designing its way to unify variant description putting into consideration the main clarification of the variant complete description will be against the related, used reference sequence that must be documented and highlighted clearly. When the RefSeq first being identified then the finding will be more comparable and discussable. Besides, the Reference sequence complete transcript variant 1 has been used to describe the findings of the present study in both, the nucleotide positions, and the new mutant types (i.e. n.1299AG and n.5439TA) and it has protein isoform 1 [NP_009225] which describes these sequence variations very specifically upon the corresponded amino acid change and position of the new mutant type through literature in more convenient way. Diversity has arisen and originated from within HGVS nomenclature, specifically on nucleotide changes, to be followed or not, the literature covered with them, in that the one RefSeq could have two nomenclatures, here we settled on the one that identified the study findings (the complete transcript) but shall always be of value to touch it, highlighting the variations among the CDS sequence (i.e c.1067AG and c.5207TA), where the supported information being both available to stay away from confusion. Variants distributed within literature (i.e 1186, 1299 and 1067) to highlight most of them in one place providing an example of each change and the reasons behind such variations why exist will be very informative. The Reference Sequence NG_005905 which represents the whole BRCA1 gene has been used to highlight the non-coding regions within primer 3 nucleotide sequences. And have been used to determine the amplicon of primer 1 set. But all mutations at the present study have been identified and nomenclated according to variant 1 RefSeq. The start codon of the complete sequence transcript [NM_007294] ATG starts at 233 in which the Adenine is situated at position 233. At the NCBI nucleotide database – the reference sequence variant 1 page within the site. The CDS and the sequence to cover were both being highlighted under sequence FEATURES. The CDS will lead to a FASTA format that free of both UTRs. This sequence CDS FASTA has been used to identify the two variants of the present study in order to fill the appropriate data required by the HGVS nomenclature in your previous recommendation and to maintain diversity within HGVS nomenclature compared with what the study could have of such touch, which could leave more strengthened imprints. Mutalyzer is an online multi-tasks tool which one of these tasks, the program designated to display sequence variation according to HGVS nomenclature ( https://mutalyzer.nl/ ). HGVS protein nomenclature has been expressed. The variation identified within exon 20 was the nucleotide substitution of the normal Thymine with the mutant Adenine in three patients, using the complete reference sequence mRNA transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] that possessed the both UTR regions, then the only coding sequence CDS of the same complete transcript was yielded the same nucleotide type alteration. So the variant n.5439TA is according to the complete transcript and the same variant will be c.5207TA according to the CDS of the complete transcript. The mutation you have shed the light on (5206TA) was found within exon 18 as the article documented. According to the complete transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] exon 18 lies between (5307..5384) cDNA and (5075..5152) CDS, which indicates clearly this position (5206) of the nucleotide Thymine is inconsistent with the RefSeq complete transcript exon 18 sequence. Searching has been performed among other complete transcripts and discovered that this exon is more consistent with the complete transcript U14680 in this position 5206 in which in this sequence accession: exon 18 lies between sequence positions (5194..5273) of the complete transcript U14680 and (5075..5154) of the CDS. Using the same accession: the description for this mutation (5206TA) will be [U14680 CDS: c.5087TA] [U14680 cDNA: n.5206TA]. The corresponded nucleotide position alterations of this variant (5206TA) according to the Variant 1 will be (NM_007294 CDS: c.5087TA) (NM_007294 cDNA: n.5319TA) to be both included within exon 18. Moreover, at codon level the change will be (GTGGAG) to result in protein variation as (V1696E) with the SNP id rs397509226. ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/20921893/ ) About the Q356R status, although the mutation has been found within control group more frequently in its heterozygous state which indicates its benign effect on the disease, but on protein functional assessment the heterozygous status has been confirmed to confer altered cellular behavior [45, 46]. Besides, some articles found this variant in its homozygous status (RR) more frequently among familial BC cases comparing to controls [43, 44]. Herein, we highlighted a little review among literature variation findings of this variant rs1799950 and presented them in one place to be more informative Article and to highlight the present finding in a bioinformatics way. The study used a prediction terminology (the bioinformatics way of expression) to describe the finding rather than deciding it as true pathogenic or making a confirmation. As guidance to follow in the future assessment (could originate an established hypothesis). The novel V1736D is located in a domain named the BRCT domain in C-terminal region. The Q356R is located in a domain named serine-rich domain. These information supported by the online Hope after the variation assessment report has been made [60]. The information about either domain (name and more description) has been added where those domains were mentioned within the Discussion. The SNPs information has been gathered from the NCBI-SNP database. The site included every SNP with its SNP id, in which germline mutations were part of that. ##Based only on bioinformatics with very little sample size and such results against studies with bigger sample size and more assessment facilities will be incomparable to discuss. So to provide a guide with the necessary information about this alteration will find its value much more within the introduction. BC is a worldwide issue. For the African statistics, please refer to the Reference data [3] within the Article (Ferlay, et al . 2013) supported by the most recent GLOBOCAN 2012. The other genetic study has been highlighted in a separate paragraph for that the study mainly screened BRCA1 point mutation . The two genetic studies have screened both BRCA1 and BRCA2 in which the later has been added according to your notice. In order to be followed with great respect, step by step, scientifically we originated, actualized and made it possible. The oligoanalyzer is online software assisted in primers adequacy measurements among standard well known measures (GC content, primer length).The cost, local literature and primer quality determined the three regions. The Macrgen Inc. Company used to purify the PCR products prior dideoxy sequencing. They all represent essential parts of this work and have been written appropriately according to the subsection headings– sampling, DNA extraction and PCR amplification. Errors were noticed earlier after chromatogram check through FinchTV v 1.4.0 within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, and has been highlighted in general context (Any errors were excluded during processing) and where found necessary – Result, the Bioinformatics assessment subsection and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. Before errors have been checked and after, which left clear and appropriate explanations at either site. A table (Table 3) has been made to include patient sample sequencing result validation findings with description to their PCR amplicons. The table cited the first paragraph (sequence analysis) to include the first three sentences. Then the refined valid sequences number was highlighted at the beginning of the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Results. In addition, Figure 2 highlighted through (the multiple sequence alignments illustration) the entire post-sequencing sequences assessment with patient ids. Primer set 1 had sequencing results, and has been highlighted before errors detection and after where found appropriate and necessary to document its existence as one of the essential part forming the basis of this work, and clearly its omitting/exclusion after errors were highlighted. The errors were highlighted within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, then all the rest of mentioned primers sets were free of primer set 1 and confined mainly to primers sets 2 and 3. The only phrases contained the primer set 1 after the errors were identified to mainly confined to two places where they highlighted its exclusion, in the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Result and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. The requested correction has been fulfilled. Which one, VUS or most likely responsible for BC? Both have been added in accordance with the Article (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]: Information has been added to highlight the control population assessment result finding with the need for further verification as recommended within the text (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]. Moreover, the confirmation of this variant to be pathogenic and responsible for BC was based on in silico assessment, novelty, solitary occurrence, and for being at BRCT domain – also has been mentioned. Two novels and additional pathogenic variant within this paragraph and the phrase “were identified to be deleterious” has been edited according to your previous recommendation note (15). What about (Elnour, et al. 2012) [10]?? Elnour Article findings have been stated clearly throughout the present work where found appropriate and necessary and indeed were of great values to aid in guiding the present study work alongside the other local literature. As recommended, the mean age STD deviation has been expressed. The cutoffs for both statuses were shown within the Table 1, (≤45) for the early onset, (≥46) for the late. The selection was random (any case diagnosed with BC), and was more convenient. In addition, the random selection shed the light on the frequency of both groups. This was advantageous. The oligoanalyzer is online software was used to assess primer effectiveness among standard well known measures (GC content, basepair length, Melting temp. (Tm)) against enormous published primers sets within one Article (Dufloth RM, et al. 2005) [51]. Variables standard measures that were used in primers selection (primer length between 18 to 24 bp) (GC content 40 to 60%) and the Tm always relays on the GC content and the length of the primers within the range (52 to 58 ̊c).Primer 1 set recorded readings in which the forward gave a report of 40% GC content, 20 bp primer sequence length and 49.3 ̊c Tm. The reverse gave a report of 45% GC content, 20 bp primer length and 50 ̊c Tm.Annealing temperature of both (F, R) have been calculated according to the purchased primer (F, R) Tm. This information was describing more (Table 2) and will be moved as additive note related to the table. The most identifiable bands; those identified with week bands did not have any priority of selection over the best looking bands for DNA sequencing. In the light of our finding as absence of established deleterious BRCA1 variant in the present study, this term co-occurrence is far from describing this situation. The patients’ care-givers and relatives were not found within the short-stay rooms that were designated only for patients’ admissions in order to be prepared and to receive their chemical infusions. Dear Referee 3: Dr.Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim Thank you for your valuable continual support and efforts through additional notes and recommendations Important notes to be considered in response to your last notes and recommendations: Although Human Genome Variation Society nomenclature has been followed in order to provide more consistency with the literature, the later filled with different mutation nomenclatures, whether the HGVS has been followed or not, most of that could be attributed to the nucleotide reference sequence variations describing the same alteration with nucleotide position variation while the protein still intact to act more specifically to describe the change. The differences mostly have been observed came as a result of the nucleotide alteration in positions as mentioned above could be attributed to, i.e. BRCA1 nucleotide accessions include six known variants transcripts (NM_007294, NM_007300.3, NM_007297.3, NM_007298.3, NM_007299.3 and NR_027676.1) in addition to the U14680, they posses different size bp and this could explain the variations in the nucleotide position of the same variant among the literature. HGVS assisted to minimize such variations by designing its way to unify variant description putting into consideration the main clarification of the variant complete description will be against the related, used reference sequence that must be documented and highlighted clearly. When the RefSeq first being identified then the finding will be more comparable and discussable. Besides, the Reference sequence complete transcript variant 1 has been used to describe the findings of the present study in both, the nucleotide positions, and the new mutant types (i.e. n.1299AG and n.5439TA) and it has protein isoform 1 [NP_009225] which describes these sequence variations very specifically upon the corresponded amino acid change and position of the new mutant type through literature in more convenient way. Diversity has arisen and originated from within HGVS nomenclature, specifically on nucleotide changes, to be followed or not, the literature covered with them, in that the one RefSeq could have two nomenclatures, here we settled on the one that identified the study findings (the complete transcript) but shall always be of value to touch it, highlighting the variations among the CDS sequence (i.e c.1067AG and c.5207TA), where the supported information being both available to stay away from confusion. Variants distributed within literature (i.e 1186, 1299 and 1067) to highlight most of them in one place providing an example of each change and the reasons behind such variations why exist will be very informative. The Reference Sequence NG_005905 which represents the whole BRCA1 gene has been used to highlight the non-coding regions within primer 3 nucleotide sequences. And have been used to determine the amplicon of primer 1 set. But all mutations at the present study have been identified and nomenclated according to variant 1 RefSeq. The start codon of the complete sequence transcript [NM_007294] ATG starts at 233 in which the Adenine is situated at position 233. At the NCBI nucleotide database – the reference sequence variant 1 page within the site. The CDS and the sequence to cover were both being highlighted under sequence FEATURES. The CDS will lead to a FASTA format that free of both UTRs. This sequence CDS FASTA has been used to identify the two variants of the present study in order to fill the appropriate data required by the HGVS nomenclature in your previous recommendation and to maintain diversity within HGVS nomenclature compared with what the study could have of such touch, which could leave more strengthened imprints. Mutalyzer is an online multi-tasks tool which one of these tasks, the program designated to display sequence variation according to HGVS nomenclature ( https://mutalyzer.nl/ ). HGVS protein nomenclature has been expressed. The variation identified within exon 20 was the nucleotide substitution of the normal Thymine with the mutant Adenine in three patients, using the complete reference sequence mRNA transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] that possessed the both UTR regions, then the only coding sequence CDS of the same complete transcript was yielded the same nucleotide type alteration. So the variant n.5439TA is according to the complete transcript and the same variant will be c.5207TA according to the CDS of the complete transcript. The mutation you have shed the light on (5206TA) was found within exon 18 as the article documented. According to the complete transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] exon 18 lies between (5307..5384) cDNA and (5075..5152) CDS, which indicates clearly this position (5206) of the nucleotide Thymine is inconsistent with the RefSeq complete transcript exon 18 sequence. Searching has been performed among other complete transcripts and discovered that this exon is more consistent with the complete transcript U14680 in this position 5206 in which in this sequence accession: exon 18 lies between sequence positions (5194..5273) of the complete transcript U14680 and (5075..5154) of the CDS. Using the same accession: the description for this mutation (5206TA) will be [U14680 CDS: c.5087TA] [U14680 cDNA: n.5206TA]. The corresponded nucleotide position alterations of this variant (5206TA) according to the Variant 1 will be (NM_007294 CDS: c.5087TA) (NM_007294 cDNA: n.5319TA) to be both included within exon 18. Moreover, at codon level the change will be (GTGGAG) to result in protein variation as (V1696E) with the SNP id rs397509226. ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/20921893/ ) About the Q356R status, although the mutation has been found within control group more frequently in its heterozygous state which indicates its benign effect on the disease, but on protein functional assessment the heterozygous status has been confirmed to confer altered cellular behavior [45, 46]. Besides, some articles found this variant in its homozygous status (RR) more frequently among familial BC cases comparing to controls [43, 44]. Herein, we highlighted a little review among literature variation findings of this variant rs1799950 and presented them in one place to be more informative Article and to highlight the present finding in a bioinformatics way. The study used a prediction terminology (the bioinformatics way of expression) to describe the finding rather than deciding it as true pathogenic or making a confirmation. As guidance to follow in the future assessment (could originate an established hypothesis). The novel V1736D is located in a domain named the BRCT domain in C-terminal region. The Q356R is located in a domain named serine-rich domain. These information supported by the online Hope after the variation assessment report has been made [60]. The information about either domain (name and more description) has been added where those domains were mentioned within the Discussion. The SNPs information has been gathered from the NCBI-SNP database. The site included every SNP with its SNP id, in which germline mutations were part of that. ##Based only on bioinformatics with very little sample size and such results against studies with bigger sample size and more assessment facilities will be incomparable to discuss. So to provide a guide with the necessary information about this alteration will find its value much more within the introduction. BC is a worldwide issue. For the African statistics, please refer to the Reference data [3] within the Article (Ferlay, et al . 2013) supported by the most recent GLOBOCAN 2012. The other genetic study has been highlighted in a separate paragraph for that the study mainly screened BRCA1 point mutation . The two genetic studies have screened both BRCA1 and BRCA2 in which the later has been added according to your notice. In order to be followed with great respect, step by step, scientifically we originated, actualized and made it possible. The oligoanalyzer is online software assisted in primers adequacy measurements among standard well known measures (GC content, primer length).The cost, local literature and primer quality determined the three regions. The Macrgen Inc. Company used to purify the PCR products prior dideoxy sequencing. They all represent essential parts of this work and have been written appropriately according to the subsection headings– sampling, DNA extraction and PCR amplification. Errors were noticed earlier after chromatogram check through FinchTV v 1.4.0 within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, and has been highlighted in general context (Any errors were excluded during processing) and where found necessary – Result, the Bioinformatics assessment subsection and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. Before errors have been checked and after, which left clear and appropriate explanations at either site. A table (Table 3) has been made to include patient sample sequencing result validation findings with description to their PCR amplicons. The table cited the first paragraph (sequence analysis) to include the first three sentences. Then the refined valid sequences number was highlighted at the beginning of the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Results. In addition, Figure 2 highlighted through (the multiple sequence alignments illustration) the entire post-sequencing sequences assessment with patient ids. Primer set 1 had sequencing results, and has been highlighted before errors detection and after where found appropriate and necessary to document its existence as one of the essential part forming the basis of this work, and clearly its omitting/exclusion after errors were highlighted. The errors were highlighted within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, then all the rest of mentioned primers sets were free of primer set 1 and confined mainly to primers sets 2 and 3. The only phrases contained the primer set 1 after the errors were identified to mainly confined to two places where they highlighted its exclusion, in the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Result and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. The requested correction has been fulfilled. Which one, VUS or most likely responsible for BC? Both have been added in accordance with the Article (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]: Information has been added to highlight the control population assessment result finding with the need for further verification as recommended within the text (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]. Moreover, the confirmation of this variant to be pathogenic and responsible for BC was based on in silico assessment, novelty, solitary occurrence, and for being at BRCT domain – also has been mentioned. Two novels and additional pathogenic variant within this paragraph and the phrase “were identified to be deleterious” has been edited according to your previous recommendation note (15). What about (Elnour, et al. 2012) [10]?? Elnour Article findings have been stated clearly throughout the present work where found appropriate and necessary and indeed were of great values to aid in guiding the present study work alongside the other local literature. As recommended, the mean age STD deviation has been expressed. The cutoffs for both statuses were shown within the Table 1, (≤45) for the early onset, (≥46) for the late. The selection was random (any case diagnosed with BC), and was more convenient. In addition, the random selection shed the light on the frequency of both groups. This was advantageous. The oligoanalyzer is online software was used to assess primer effectiveness among standard well known measures (GC content, basepair length, Melting temp. (Tm)) against enormous published primers sets within one Article (Dufloth RM, et al. 2005) [51]. Variables standard measures that were used in primers selection (primer length between 18 to 24 bp) (GC content 40 to 60%) and the Tm always relays on the GC content and the length of the primers within the range (52 to 58 ̊c).Primer 1 set recorded readings in which the forward gave a report of 40% GC content, 20 bp primer sequence length and 49.3 ̊c Tm. The reverse gave a report of 45% GC content, 20 bp primer length and 50 ̊c Tm.Annealing temperature of both (F, R) have been calculated according to the purchased primer (F, R) Tm. This information was describing more (Table 2) and will be moved as additive note related to the table. The most identifiable bands; those identified with week bands did not have any priority of selection over the best looking bands for DNA sequencing. In the light of our finding as absence of established deleterious BRCA1 variant in the present study, this term co-occurrence is far from describing this situation. The patients’ care-givers and relatives were not found within the short-stay rooms that were designated only for patients’ admissions in order to be prepared and to receive their chemical infusions. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 24 Jan 2018 Alsmawal Elimam , Postgraduate College, Al-Neelain University, Khartoum, Sudan 24 Jan 2018 Author Response Dear Referee 3: Dr.Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim Thank you for your valuable continual support and efforts through additional notes and recommendations Important notes to be considered in response to your last notes and ... Continue reading Dear Referee 3: Dr.Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim Thank you for your valuable continual support and efforts through additional notes and recommendations Important notes to be considered in response to your last notes and recommendations: Although Human Genome Variation Society nomenclature has been followed in order to provide more consistency with the literature, the later filled with different mutation nomenclatures, whether the HGVS has been followed or not, most of that could be attributed to the nucleotide reference sequence variations describing the same alteration with nucleotide position variation while the protein still intact to act more specifically to describe the change. The differences mostly have been observed came as a result of the nucleotide alteration in positions as mentioned above could be attributed to, i.e. BRCA1 nucleotide accessions include six known variants transcripts (NM_007294, NM_007300.3, NM_007297.3, NM_007298.3, NM_007299.3 and NR_027676.1) in addition to the U14680, they posses different size bp and this could explain the variations in the nucleotide position of the same variant among the literature. HGVS assisted to minimize such variations by designing its way to unify variant description putting into consideration the main clarification of the variant complete description will be against the related, used reference sequence that must be documented and highlighted clearly. When the RefSeq first being identified then the finding will be more comparable and discussable. Besides, the Reference sequence complete transcript variant 1 has been used to describe the findings of the present study in both, the nucleotide positions, and the new mutant types (i.e. n.1299AG and n.5439TA) and it has protein isoform 1 [NP_009225] which describes these sequence variations very specifically upon the corresponded amino acid change and position of the new mutant type through literature in more convenient way. Diversity has arisen and originated from within HGVS nomenclature, specifically on nucleotide changes, to be followed or not, the literature covered with them, in that the one RefSeq could have two nomenclatures, here we settled on the one that identified the study findings (the complete transcript) but shall always be of value to touch it, highlighting the variations among the CDS sequence (i.e c.1067AG and c.5207TA), where the supported information being both available to stay away from confusion. Variants distributed within literature (i.e 1186, 1299 and 1067) to highlight most of them in one place providing an example of each change and the reasons behind such variations why exist will be very informative. The Reference Sequence NG_005905 which represents the whole BRCA1 gene has been used to highlight the non-coding regions within primer 3 nucleotide sequences. And have been used to determine the amplicon of primer 1 set. But all mutations at the present study have been identified and nomenclated according to variant 1 RefSeq. The start codon of the complete sequence transcript [NM_007294] ATG starts at 233 in which the Adenine is situated at position 233. At the NCBI nucleotide database – the reference sequence variant 1 page within the site. The CDS and the sequence to cover were both being highlighted under sequence FEATURES. The CDS will lead to a FASTA format that free of both UTRs. This sequence CDS FASTA has been used to identify the two variants of the present study in order to fill the appropriate data required by the HGVS nomenclature in your previous recommendation and to maintain diversity within HGVS nomenclature compared with what the study could have of such touch, which could leave more strengthened imprints. Mutalyzer is an online multi-tasks tool which one of these tasks, the program designated to display sequence variation according to HGVS nomenclature ( https://mutalyzer.nl/ ). HGVS protein nomenclature has been expressed. The variation identified within exon 20 was the nucleotide substitution of the normal Thymine with the mutant Adenine in three patients, using the complete reference sequence mRNA transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] that possessed the both UTR regions, then the only coding sequence CDS of the same complete transcript was yielded the same nucleotide type alteration. So the variant n.5439TA is according to the complete transcript and the same variant will be c.5207TA according to the CDS of the complete transcript. The mutation you have shed the light on (5206TA) was found within exon 18 as the article documented. According to the complete transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] exon 18 lies between (5307..5384) cDNA and (5075..5152) CDS, which indicates clearly this position (5206) of the nucleotide Thymine is inconsistent with the RefSeq complete transcript exon 18 sequence. Searching has been performed among other complete transcripts and discovered that this exon is more consistent with the complete transcript U14680 in this position 5206 in which in this sequence accession: exon 18 lies between sequence positions (5194..5273) of the complete transcript U14680 and (5075..5154) of the CDS. Using the same accession: the description for this mutation (5206TA) will be [U14680 CDS: c.5087TA] [U14680 cDNA: n.5206TA]. The corresponded nucleotide position alterations of this variant (5206TA) according to the Variant 1 will be (NM_007294 CDS: c.5087TA) (NM_007294 cDNA: n.5319TA) to be both included within exon 18. Moreover, at codon level the change will be (GTGGAG) to result in protein variation as (V1696E) with the SNP id rs397509226. ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/20921893/ ) About the Q356R status, although the mutation has been found within control group more frequently in its heterozygous state which indicates its benign effect on the disease, but on protein functional assessment the heterozygous status has been confirmed to confer altered cellular behavior [45, 46]. Besides, some articles found this variant in its homozygous status (RR) more frequently among familial BC cases comparing to controls [43, 44]. Herein, we highlighted a little review among literature variation findings of this variant rs1799950 and presented them in one place to be more informative Article and to highlight the present finding in a bioinformatics way. The study used a prediction terminology (the bioinformatics way of expression) to describe the finding rather than deciding it as true pathogenic or making a confirmation. As guidance to follow in the future assessment (could originate an established hypothesis). The novel V1736D is located in a domain named the BRCT domain in C-terminal region. The Q356R is located in a domain named serine-rich domain. These information supported by the online Hope after the variation assessment report has been made [60]. The information about either domain (name and more description) has been added where those domains were mentioned within the Discussion. The SNPs information has been gathered from the NCBI-SNP database. The site included every SNP with its SNP id, in which germline mutations were part of that. ##Based only on bioinformatics with very little sample size and such results against studies with bigger sample size and more assessment facilities will be incomparable to discuss. So to provide a guide with the necessary information about this alteration will find its value much more within the introduction. BC is a worldwide issue. For the African statistics, please refer to the Reference data [3] within the Article (Ferlay, et al . 2013) supported by the most recent GLOBOCAN 2012. The other genetic study has been highlighted in a separate paragraph for that the study mainly screened BRCA1 point mutation . The two genetic studies have screened both BRCA1 and BRCA2 in which the later has been added according to your notice. In order to be followed with great respect, step by step, scientifically we originated, actualized and made it possible. The oligoanalyzer is online software assisted in primers adequacy measurements among standard well known measures (GC content, primer length).The cost, local literature and primer quality determined the three regions. The Macrgen Inc. Company used to purify the PCR products prior dideoxy sequencing. They all represent essential parts of this work and have been written appropriately according to the subsection headings– sampling, DNA extraction and PCR amplification. Errors were noticed earlier after chromatogram check through FinchTV v 1.4.0 within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, and has been highlighted in general context (Any errors were excluded during processing) and where found necessary – Result, the Bioinformatics assessment subsection and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. Before errors have been checked and after, which left clear and appropriate explanations at either site. A table (Table 3) has been made to include patient sample sequencing result validation findings with description to their PCR amplicons. The table cited the first paragraph (sequence analysis) to include the first three sentences. Then the refined valid sequences number was highlighted at the beginning of the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Results. In addition, Figure 2 highlighted through (the multiple sequence alignments illustration) the entire post-sequencing sequences assessment with patient ids. Primer set 1 had sequencing results, and has been highlighted before errors detection and after where found appropriate and necessary to document its existence as one of the essential part forming the basis of this work, and clearly its omitting/exclusion after errors were highlighted. The errors were highlighted within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, then all the rest of mentioned primers sets were free of primer set 1 and confined mainly to primers sets 2 and 3. The only phrases contained the primer set 1 after the errors were identified to mainly confined to two places where they highlighted its exclusion, in the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Result and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. The requested correction has been fulfilled. Which one, VUS or most likely responsible for BC? Both have been added in accordance with the Article (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]: Information has been added to highlight the control population assessment result finding with the need for further verification as recommended within the text (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]. Moreover, the confirmation of this variant to be pathogenic and responsible for BC was based on in silico assessment, novelty, solitary occurrence, and for being at BRCT domain – also has been mentioned. Two novels and additional pathogenic variant within this paragraph and the phrase “were identified to be deleterious” has been edited according to your previous recommendation note (15). What about (Elnour, et al. 2012) [10]?? Elnour Article findings have been stated clearly throughout the present work where found appropriate and necessary and indeed were of great values to aid in guiding the present study work alongside the other local literature. As recommended, the mean age STD deviation has been expressed. The cutoffs for both statuses were shown within the Table 1, (≤45) for the early onset, (≥46) for the late. The selection was random (any case diagnosed with BC), and was more convenient. In addition, the random selection shed the light on the frequency of both groups. This was advantageous. The oligoanalyzer is online software was used to assess primer effectiveness among standard well known measures (GC content, basepair length, Melting temp. (Tm)) against enormous published primers sets within one Article (Dufloth RM, et al. 2005) [51]. Variables standard measures that were used in primers selection (primer length between 18 to 24 bp) (GC content 40 to 60%) and the Tm always relays on the GC content and the length of the primers within the range (52 to 58 ̊c).Primer 1 set recorded readings in which the forward gave a report of 40% GC content, 20 bp primer sequence length and 49.3 ̊c Tm. The reverse gave a report of 45% GC content, 20 bp primer length and 50 ̊c Tm.Annealing temperature of both (F, R) have been calculated according to the purchased primer (F, R) Tm. This information was describing more (Table 2) and will be moved as additive note related to the table. The most identifiable bands; those identified with week bands did not have any priority of selection over the best looking bands for DNA sequencing. In the light of our finding as absence of established deleterious BRCA1 variant in the present study, this term co-occurrence is far from describing this situation. The patients’ care-givers and relatives were not found within the short-stay rooms that were designated only for patients’ admissions in order to be prepared and to receive their chemical infusions. Dear Referee 3: Dr.Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim Thank you for your valuable continual support and efforts through additional notes and recommendations Important notes to be considered in response to your last notes and recommendations: Although Human Genome Variation Society nomenclature has been followed in order to provide more consistency with the literature, the later filled with different mutation nomenclatures, whether the HGVS has been followed or not, most of that could be attributed to the nucleotide reference sequence variations describing the same alteration with nucleotide position variation while the protein still intact to act more specifically to describe the change. The differences mostly have been observed came as a result of the nucleotide alteration in positions as mentioned above could be attributed to, i.e. BRCA1 nucleotide accessions include six known variants transcripts (NM_007294, NM_007300.3, NM_007297.3, NM_007298.3, NM_007299.3 and NR_027676.1) in addition to the U14680, they posses different size bp and this could explain the variations in the nucleotide position of the same variant among the literature. HGVS assisted to minimize such variations by designing its way to unify variant description putting into consideration the main clarification of the variant complete description will be against the related, used reference sequence that must be documented and highlighted clearly. When the RefSeq first being identified then the finding will be more comparable and discussable. Besides, the Reference sequence complete transcript variant 1 has been used to describe the findings of the present study in both, the nucleotide positions, and the new mutant types (i.e. n.1299AG and n.5439TA) and it has protein isoform 1 [NP_009225] which describes these sequence variations very specifically upon the corresponded amino acid change and position of the new mutant type through literature in more convenient way. Diversity has arisen and originated from within HGVS nomenclature, specifically on nucleotide changes, to be followed or not, the literature covered with them, in that the one RefSeq could have two nomenclatures, here we settled on the one that identified the study findings (the complete transcript) but shall always be of value to touch it, highlighting the variations among the CDS sequence (i.e c.1067AG and c.5207TA), where the supported information being both available to stay away from confusion. Variants distributed within literature (i.e 1186, 1299 and 1067) to highlight most of them in one place providing an example of each change and the reasons behind such variations why exist will be very informative. The Reference Sequence NG_005905 which represents the whole BRCA1 gene has been used to highlight the non-coding regions within primer 3 nucleotide sequences. And have been used to determine the amplicon of primer 1 set. But all mutations at the present study have been identified and nomenclated according to variant 1 RefSeq. The start codon of the complete sequence transcript [NM_007294] ATG starts at 233 in which the Adenine is situated at position 233. At the NCBI nucleotide database – the reference sequence variant 1 page within the site. The CDS and the sequence to cover were both being highlighted under sequence FEATURES. The CDS will lead to a FASTA format that free of both UTRs. This sequence CDS FASTA has been used to identify the two variants of the present study in order to fill the appropriate data required by the HGVS nomenclature in your previous recommendation and to maintain diversity within HGVS nomenclature compared with what the study could have of such touch, which could leave more strengthened imprints. Mutalyzer is an online multi-tasks tool which one of these tasks, the program designated to display sequence variation according to HGVS nomenclature ( https://mutalyzer.nl/ ). HGVS protein nomenclature has been expressed. The variation identified within exon 20 was the nucleotide substitution of the normal Thymine with the mutant Adenine in three patients, using the complete reference sequence mRNA transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] that possessed the both UTR regions, then the only coding sequence CDS of the same complete transcript was yielded the same nucleotide type alteration. So the variant n.5439TA is according to the complete transcript and the same variant will be c.5207TA according to the CDS of the complete transcript. The mutation you have shed the light on (5206TA) was found within exon 18 as the article documented. According to the complete transcript variant 1 [NM_007294] exon 18 lies between (5307..5384) cDNA and (5075..5152) CDS, which indicates clearly this position (5206) of the nucleotide Thymine is inconsistent with the RefSeq complete transcript exon 18 sequence. Searching has been performed among other complete transcripts and discovered that this exon is more consistent with the complete transcript U14680 in this position 5206 in which in this sequence accession: exon 18 lies between sequence positions (5194..5273) of the complete transcript U14680 and (5075..5154) of the CDS. Using the same accession: the description for this mutation (5206TA) will be [U14680 CDS: c.5087TA] [U14680 cDNA: n.5206TA]. The corresponded nucleotide position alterations of this variant (5206TA) according to the Variant 1 will be (NM_007294 CDS: c.5087TA) (NM_007294 cDNA: n.5319TA) to be both included within exon 18. Moreover, at codon level the change will be (GTGGAG) to result in protein variation as (V1696E) with the SNP id rs397509226. ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/20921893/ ) About the Q356R status, although the mutation has been found within control group more frequently in its heterozygous state which indicates its benign effect on the disease, but on protein functional assessment the heterozygous status has been confirmed to confer altered cellular behavior [45, 46]. Besides, some articles found this variant in its homozygous status (RR) more frequently among familial BC cases comparing to controls [43, 44]. Herein, we highlighted a little review among literature variation findings of this variant rs1799950 and presented them in one place to be more informative Article and to highlight the present finding in a bioinformatics way. The study used a prediction terminology (the bioinformatics way of expression) to describe the finding rather than deciding it as true pathogenic or making a confirmation. As guidance to follow in the future assessment (could originate an established hypothesis). The novel V1736D is located in a domain named the BRCT domain in C-terminal region. The Q356R is located in a domain named serine-rich domain. These information supported by the online Hope after the variation assessment report has been made [60]. The information about either domain (name and more description) has been added where those domains were mentioned within the Discussion. The SNPs information has been gathered from the NCBI-SNP database. The site included every SNP with its SNP id, in which germline mutations were part of that. ##Based only on bioinformatics with very little sample size and such results against studies with bigger sample size and more assessment facilities will be incomparable to discuss. So to provide a guide with the necessary information about this alteration will find its value much more within the introduction. BC is a worldwide issue. For the African statistics, please refer to the Reference data [3] within the Article (Ferlay, et al . 2013) supported by the most recent GLOBOCAN 2012. The other genetic study has been highlighted in a separate paragraph for that the study mainly screened BRCA1 point mutation . The two genetic studies have screened both BRCA1 and BRCA2 in which the later has been added according to your notice. In order to be followed with great respect, step by step, scientifically we originated, actualized and made it possible. The oligoanalyzer is online software assisted in primers adequacy measurements among standard well known measures (GC content, primer length).The cost, local literature and primer quality determined the three regions. The Macrgen Inc. Company used to purify the PCR products prior dideoxy sequencing. They all represent essential parts of this work and have been written appropriately according to the subsection headings– sampling, DNA extraction and PCR amplification. Errors were noticed earlier after chromatogram check through FinchTV v 1.4.0 within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, and has been highlighted in general context (Any errors were excluded during processing) and where found necessary – Result, the Bioinformatics assessment subsection and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. Before errors have been checked and after, which left clear and appropriate explanations at either site. A table (Table 3) has been made to include patient sample sequencing result validation findings with description to their PCR amplicons. The table cited the first paragraph (sequence analysis) to include the first three sentences. Then the refined valid sequences number was highlighted at the beginning of the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Results. In addition, Figure 2 highlighted through (the multiple sequence alignments illustration) the entire post-sequencing sequences assessment with patient ids. Primer set 1 had sequencing results, and has been highlighted before errors detection and after where found appropriate and necessary to document its existence as one of the essential part forming the basis of this work, and clearly its omitting/exclusion after errors were highlighted. The errors were highlighted within the computational analysis subsection of the Methods, then all the rest of mentioned primers sets were free of primer set 1 and confined mainly to primers sets 2 and 3. The only phrases contained the primer set 1 after the errors were identified to mainly confined to two places where they highlighted its exclusion, in the Bioinformatics assessment subsection of the Result and at the end of the Discussion before the last paragraph. The requested correction has been fulfilled. Which one, VUS or most likely responsible for BC? Both have been added in accordance with the Article (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]: Information has been added to highlight the control population assessment result finding with the need for further verification as recommended within the text (Biunno I, et al.2014) [35]. Moreover, the confirmation of this variant to be pathogenic and responsible for BC was based on in silico assessment, novelty, solitary occurrence, and for being at BRCT domain – also has been mentioned. Two novels and additional pathogenic variant within this paragraph and the phrase “were identified to be deleterious” has been edited according to your previous recommendation note (15). What about (Elnour, et al. 2012) [10]?? Elnour Article findings have been stated clearly throughout the present work where found appropriate and necessary and indeed were of great values to aid in guiding the present study work alongside the other local literature. As recommended, the mean age STD deviation has been expressed. The cutoffs for both statuses were shown within the Table 1, (≤45) for the early onset, (≥46) for the late. The selection was random (any case diagnosed with BC), and was more convenient. In addition, the random selection shed the light on the frequency of both groups. This was advantageous. The oligoanalyzer is online software was used to assess primer effectiveness among standard well known measures (GC content, basepair length, Melting temp. (Tm)) against enormous published primers sets within one Article (Dufloth RM, et al. 2005) [51]. Variables standard measures that were used in primers selection (primer length between 18 to 24 bp) (GC content 40 to 60%) and the Tm always relays on the GC content and the length of the primers within the range (52 to 58 ̊c).Primer 1 set recorded readings in which the forward gave a report of 40% GC content, 20 bp primer sequence length and 49.3 ̊c Tm. The reverse gave a report of 45% GC content, 20 bp primer length and 50 ̊c Tm.Annealing temperature of both (F, R) have been calculated according to the purchased primer (F, R) Tm. This information was describing more (Table 2) and will be moved as additive note related to the table. The most identifiable bands; those identified with week bands did not have any priority of selection over the best looking bands for DNA sequencing. In the light of our finding as absence of established deleterious BRCA1 variant in the present study, this term co-occurrence is far from describing this situation. The patients’ care-givers and relatives were not found within the short-stay rooms that were designated only for patients’ admissions in order to be prepared and to receive their chemical infusions. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 21 Sep 2017 Revised Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Awadelkarim KD. Reviewer Report For: BRCA1 novel variation V1736D and in silico analysis of SNP Q356R in Sudanese patients with breast cancer [version 4; peer review: 1 approved, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :1461 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13766.r26925 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1461/v2#referee-response-26925 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 23 Oct 2017 Khalid Dafaallah Awadelkarim , Department of Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute (NCI‐UG), University of Gezira, Wad Madani, Sudan Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13766.r26925 This manuscript is emphasized in a good way. However, it will benefit from some more revisions. Major points: I recommend the usage of standard HGVS nomenclature for documenting the detected ... Continue reading READ ALL 