This is an analysis of the Malaria Box set, and an attempt to try to understand whether there are any correlations between activity and safety signals or resistance development using Principal Component Analyses. The author defines a single principal component which can be used to capture most of the desirable compounds of the Malaria Box. The data used are from the Malaria Box and the recent summary in Van Voorhis et al., 2016 (of which this reviewer is one of the 150 co-authors). The initial correlations show that there are some links between the different life cycle stages of inhibition for malaria, and certainly these are strong correlations compared to say the correlation between killing Plasmodium and killing distantly related worm pathogens. The most useful insight from the paper is in Figure 4 where it's clear that Compounds where no resistance could be generated have higher PC1 values. Compounds where resistance could not be generated are more significantly represented by fibroblast inhibition at 10 uM. Given that compounds where no resistance can be made are deemed by some to be part of higher value scaffolds (we all want drugs which don’t generate resistance) – then this observation warrants more exploration. Some comments for the author – which would add value to this study (or could form the basis of the next study): The PCA based on cytotoxicity is built from the human fibroblast data. This is a good start, but the real value would be to use all the NCI59 cell data from the US National Cancer Institute and to see whether there is anything else that emerges. As a set of compounds, the Malaria Box was the fruit of a very small investment – and so the compounds were often selected based on availability and cost. It would be good to run the same PCA analysis on the Pathogen Box structures. For pathogen box there was flexibility to make any compound that was required for the collection, and so the quality of the structures chosen was arguably higher. Two other types of compound data could be analysed. First it would be interesting to see the same analysis used on the TCAMS set – does that help in some ways to reprioritize these structures. Second, what happens with PC1 if you look at say the 8000 compounds taken in development by the Pharma industry (and not yet launched) – do they appear to be higher quality. 