This is an interesting manuscript that I hope will be read widely. In this field, we give a lot of lip service to controlling genetic background because we all know it is important. But often, "wild type" lines such as CS are assumed to be equivalent and this turns out to be quite problematic conceptually. Now Colomb and Brembs have put some empirical evidence forward that confirms our fears about this practice. CS is a commonly used outbred strain, but my CS and your CS are different due to founder effects, drift, and selection. In this particular study, the founder effect has a massive impact on Buridans paradigm, a relatively simple locomotor behavior. And this would likely be true for any quantitative trait. I have one comment on the conclusion; the effects seem to be mostly due to founder effects rather than selection (drift should be considered as well). This seems like a likely explanation in this current comparison, but this might change when we deal with mutants and transgenes maintained on an outbred strain. Such mutants or transgenes may cause accumulation of modifiers, which I would consider to be selection based. Regardless of the underlying mechanism, I like the fact that the authors of this study propose a solution, in which a stock center might maintain a large population of an outbred strain such as CS, and then we all would outcross our mutants and transgenes to that line. This could work, and offers the advantage that results from different groups would be comparable. Without such a mechanism, it is important, at a minimum, that all labs at least back cross all mutants/transgenes to their own CS or equivalent w.t. line. On the other hand, I would argue that genetic screens and collections of large populations of Gal4 and other such lines should be generated on an INBRED background which eliminates or reduces founder effects. This provides a more useful reagent for the community to use because it eliminates the onerous need to outcross every single line from a large collection. Overall, this is an important issue, and this study does a nice job of shedding light with actual data.