Gillessen, Kwak, and Tamayo describe a method for measuring the interaction of CLOCK and BMAL1 purified from cellular or tissue extracts with either naked DNA or nucleosomes including an established CLOCK-BMAL1 binding sequence containing several E-boxes. The manuscript is well written, and the method will be broadly useful, especially as it could be adapted to other transcription factors by altering the target DNA sequences. Given that it is a method description, it is important that all details of the protocol are clear and I include here some suggestions for clarification. Materials and methods: In the description of the preparation of tissue extracts, the following is insufficiently clear: “…tissue was Dounce homogenized with pestle A, centrifuged, then Dounce homogenized with pestle B, followed by…” Was the supernatant discarded after centrifugation between homogenization with pestle A and pestle B? If so, was the pellet resuspended again in the same buffer? Please provide detailed composition and volumes of buffers used for initial homogenization and sucrose cushion centrifugation. In the list of antibodies for the last item, either delete “ECL” or include the full product name “Amersham ECL Rabbit IgG, HRP-linked F(ab’)2 fragment (from donkey)”. Also, I can’t find a product number with a “V” at the end – is that a typo? Either place the oligonucleotide sequences within the section describing “DNA-binding oligonucleotide design” or include a sentence stating that the sequences are listed below. Nowhere in the manuscript does it state the concentration of extracts that is used in the assays and this is critical information. Perhaps this was meant to be included in the section describing the CPDBA where it states “Beads were incubated with 6-10 l of extract (unless a range of concentrations is specified)…” ? The section titled “Pharmacological inhibition of CKIe/d”also includes details of preparation of cell extracts, which might fit more logically as a separate section following preparation of tissue extracts. Results : Related to point #5 above, there is no mention of the concentration of extract used in experiments shown in Fig. 1. What does arbitrary units refer to on the x and y axes in Fig. 1B? In Fig. 1E and Fig. 4C, the x axis is labeled “fold dilution” or “l extract” but it would be much more informative to know what concentration of extract is included in the assay. In Figs 3A and 3D, the legend refers to Western blot detection of PER2 and CKId that does not appear in the figure. The text states that there are similar levels of CLOCK and BMAL1 protein in each condition in Fig 3D but the figure shows much less CLOCK and BMAL1 protein in the extract treated with PF671462. Both Fig. 3A and 3D should include a loading control blot as well. Since the change in protein amounts appears to be opposite to the change in binding measured, this does not invalidate the conclusions but the data should be described accurately in the text. 