This research note presents observations on the temporal and spatial distribution of spiny dogfish, Squalus acanthias , in the western North Atlantic Ocean. Specifically the note documents presence and environmental data associated with the capture of spiny dogfish in the Back and Core Sound, North Carolina. While spiny dogfish have been documented later in the year (as late as June 1), associated environmental data have not been published. The findings published are of importance as they document the occurrence of mature female spiny dogfish in water temperatures above previously published thermal thresholds. Given recent management actions, these data are important as spiny dogfish may occur in their southern range well outside of periods where they are sampled. These data are clear and concise and appropriate for publication as a research note. The data are straightforward, and I recommend indexing the article, although the authors should consider the following minor revisions. Abstract: Report ranges and mean lengths for spiny dogfish captured. Length at maturity should state length at 50% maturity. Significant digits for depth should be reported to the nearest tenth of a meter, this should also be corrected throughout the manuscript. Methods : Paragraph two, the authors should clarify if total length measurements are natural total length, or stretch total length. If they are estimating maturity based on length this could affect estimates. Results: Significant digits need to be corrected, again depths should reported to the nearest tenth of a meter, also DO significant digits are reported to the nearest tenth in one instance and the nearest one hundredth in the next. For capture events it isnt necessary to report additional catch (batoids) as these data do not contribute to the note. Discussion: If temperature data are available for the Rulifson et al. (2012) reported June encounters of spiny dogfish, these data should be reported. For Nammack et al reference, report what metric of length at maturity this is (median or length at 50% maturity)