 General comments The present research note entitled:” Mitochondrial genomes of Anopheles arabiensis , An. gambiae and An. coluzzii show no clear species division” is well analysed, reported and written. As already reported in previous study the submitted manuscript suggested the absence of any species-specific differences in the mitogenome of the three species examined. Although the manuscript is not innovative and the research is not based on any previous evidence, the present note confirms previous suggestions by examining the whole mitogenome of 70 specimens from field specimens and find the lack of species or chromosomal form specific markers. Title and abstract Title and abstract are appropriate and summarize well the content of the article. Introduction The introduction gives a good description of the aims of the present study, although I would have added some references to previous studies performed on mtDNA of the examined species (for example Besansky 1997) and why you expected to obtain different results compared to previous studies. Please revise also: “morphologically identical species that can only be distinguished with molecular markers” (Scott et al., 1993; Coetzee et al., 2013) The currently used molecular markers are located within genomic islands of divergence located proximal to the centromeres ( Lee et al. (2014) ; Turner et al. (2005) ) please rephrase the citation and refer it only to detect genomic differences between An.gambiae e and An.coluzzii . Please insert a sentence about chromosomal forms of An.gambiae. Methods Please specified the method for collecting An. arabiensis as you already described for An.gambiae (e.g. indoor specimens, mouth aspirators, PSC collections). Please insert a table with inversion polymorphism of chromosomal forms analyzed. Please add the source of the An. quadriannulatus specimens you included in the phylogenetic analysis. Results Study design is well explained and results are given concisely. Please add in Table 2 also the number of specimens you included for each species in the analysis. Please add in Figure two an explanation of what “lineage” means for An. arabiensis specimens. Please give results (also without table or figure) for each country separately. Discussion Discussion is very concise but deals with most major points of interest. We would just suggest to explain better the conclusion on possible introgression (the more plausible hypothesis) between taxa and to evaluate other possible explanations for the absence of fixed differences between species (e.g. absence for divergent selection, or evolutionary characherestic of mitogenomes). 