In this research, the authors studied the equilibrium unfolding pathway of human aldose reductase (hAR) by spectroscopic methods. Although this pure unfolding study may provide information of how hAR unfolds, the underlying physiological relevance is unclear. Furthermore, the present study needs to be improved in the quality of the data and interpretation. During my preparation of the comments, Professor Uversky and Professor Mueller have published their excellent comments and suggestions. I agree with those points raised in their reports. Below are some additional comments that could be considered by the authors to improve their work. Although the authors have mentioned the importance of hAR in the Abstract and Introduction, especially for that it is an enzyme functions under osmotic stresses, it is unclear for the physiological relevance of the information obtained here using heat and chemical denaturants. I suggest the authors considered the physiologically relevant factors such as osmotic stress in their revised or future work. hAR is an enzyme. I suggest the authors monitor the activity of the enzyme during unfolding to provide information regarding the local structural changes around the active site. I am not convinced by the calculations of the thermodynamic parameters. The equations listed in the manuscript are derived from reverse folding processes. However, the authors did not show that the folding of hAR was reversible or not. The authors concluded that the thermal unfolding of hAR was a two-state process by far-UV CD spectra analysis. However, only one method/probe is difficult for the definition of a two-state transition. It’s better to study the transition with two or more probes and pure two-state transition will give similar transitions as well as thermodynamic parameters for all probes. The authors concluded that hAR undergo a three-state transition during unfolding by chemical denaturants. The present data could not support this statement. The emission maximum wavelength of the Trp fluorescence revealed no populations of any intermediates. An intermediate seems to populate at low denaturant concentrations when observed by Trp fluorescence intensity. However, intrinsic fluorescence intensity is easily affected by numerous environmental factors and is not as reliable as the emission maximum wavelength. Yes, there is an obvious increase in ANS fluorescence. Previously Turoverov and his co-authors have shown that the appearance of off-pathway aggregates, in some cases, can enhance ANS fluorescence. 1 It is necessary to avoid the misleading interpretation by identifying the potential intermediate(s) via more methods. It is unclear whether all the solid lines are fitted data or not. Moreover, it is better to provide the residuals to facilitate the readers to evaluate whether the fitting is appropriate. In Figure 3, the ANS profiles seem to comprise more than one state and are likely to be the sum of at least two states centered at around 1 and 2 M GdnHCl? CD signals are recommended to report in molar ellipticities. The quality of the far-UV CD spectra is not enough. High concentration of denaturants may affect the signals at low wavelengths, generally below 210 nm. However, the low signal-to-noise seems to be affected by other factors. The authors can try to adjust the measuring parameters such as the slit width and number of repetitions. Furthermore, the authors mentioned that all chemicals were Sigma reagent grade. To my experience, GdnHCl with an ultrapure grade will produce much better signals that the lower grades. Note that the impurities or contaminated solvents will greatly affect spectroscopic measurements. Before spectroscopic measurements, the samples should be filtered and degassed. Detailed guidelines of spectroscopic measurements can be found in the paper by Kelly et al. 2 The units of the fluorescence intensities in Figures 2 and 3 are quite different. Are these data normalized by the same method? Furthermore, the spectra of N in panels E-2 should refer to the state in the absence of denaturant. Why the spectrum of N in Figure 2E-2 is different from that in Figure 3E-2? To me, the spectrum of N in Figure 2E-2 is strange. Please verify that the solutions are not affected by contaminants. 