Several human muscle pathologies result from mutations in actin genes. To understand the cellular effects of such alleles, Hayashi and colleagues introduced the relevant mutations from human diseases into a muscle-enriched actin gene in C. elegans , an animal with a simple body plan and behavior. They found that mutant actins localize to muscle fibers but also form aggregates. At least at the low expression level examined, mutant actins did not cause animal movement defects. This is a clear manuscript with interesting potential. However, before it is suitable to be indexed, several points need to be addressed. Major point: The authors should comment on the significant decrease in body bends exhibited by worms expressing GFP-ACT-4(WT). Could this relate to lower expression of this transgene – did this phenotype scale with expression level among the various isolates? Could it relate to the ability of the (lowly expressed) transgene to incorporate into muscle (measure GFP/F-actin staining ratio)? Arguably the relevant comparisons are between mutant and WT transgene, and there was a statistically significant difference in body bends for both these comparisons, though this was an increase. Are there known perturbations that lead to more beats per second than controls? Minor points: The qualitative assay for aggregate formation is unlikely to have the dynamic range necessary to discern among conditions of different severity. Doing so would probably require a quantitative assay such as measuring the range of fluorescence intensity throughout regions of the image, or the proportion of the image occupied by pixels over some intensity threshold. The E100K mutation appears to have severely disrupted muscle fiber organization – the 9-11 prominent F-actin bundles apparent in WT cells are replaced with many more partially-overlapping wispy structures. This effect should be related to the disarray noted by Song et al. , 2011 (Discussion 3 rd sentence). The degree of subcellular morphological perturbation could be quantified with image analysis. It is interesting that despite this dramatic change, animal mobility is normal. It would be nice to note somewhere the origin of 3’ UTR (act-4). “Turkey” should be “Tukey”; “Promotor” should be “promoter”. 