Determining the extent that bumble bees may self-medicate by consuming floral nectar containing antimicrobial secondary plant metabolites when infected with a pathogen is a fascinating line of study. The experiments presented are well conducted and analyzed, and I found the results not entirely surprising or contradictory. There was a temporary effect of nicotine (when provided in sugar syrup) against Crithidia bombi in Bombus terrestris workers. This effect might have been stronger and more long lasting, and even might have cleared the infection, if the dose of nicotine consumed was higher. This could be tested in future experiments using the high- and low-end concentrations found in floral nectar. Even though the infected bees preferred sucrose laced with nicotine in the clever foraging tests and in petri dishes, the authors say the results should be interpreted with caution because the life expectancy of the infected, nicotine-fed bees was not increased relative to controls. But as they also point out, bees dont live very long, and many factors affect worker bee life expectancy. Possibly, at the colony level, reducing the infection level even for a few days in a certain number of workers might slow the rate of horizontal transmission among nest mates; this remains to be tested. I think it would be revealing to test the effects of these alkaloids, or other plant metabolites, on infected queen bumble bees. As Crithidia is also vertically transmitted, it would be interesting to know if the vertical transmission of this parasite could be reduced if the queen ingests nectar that contains antimicrobial metabolites. It also would be interesting to know if the infected workers that collect nectar containing these compounds feed the queen with them, potentially lowering her pathogen load, which would then might allow her to produce more reproductive male and gynes. These types of experiments are more difficult, but could yield more field-relevant results. Yet, the experiments presented here are great first steps in understanding a new area of research on the interaction of pollinators, pathogens and plant compounds. I greatly appreciate that the authors offer a cautionary stance in interpreting their results, but I do think, given the physiological tradeoffs involved in consuming potentially toxic compounds, that small temporary effects on individual bees might translate to larger effects at the colony-level. 