MetaGenSense is intended to help find pathogen data in metagenomic data created through next generation sequencing. Measured data including the sequencing reads and metadata are fed into a Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). The application can fetch that information and pipe it into predefined Galaxy workflows, run them and visualise the output via a framework called KRONA. The introduction to the article is perhaps too long (almost half of the article). There are sections that are not necessarily related to the research presented here, e.g., the paragraph focusing on the assembly problem of next generation sequencing reads. It would be useful, however, that the authors give a more comprehensive introduction into metagenomics as this topic is only covered very briefly at the beginning of the introduction. The section on the software tool itself is very technical. I have trouble identifying a clear train of thought. Also it could be shorter and more precise. The case study does not really seem to be a case study on how the application can be used to actually find pathogen information in metagenomic data but is more like a step by step protocol on how to use the application. I suggest that this kind of information should be moved to the documentation and that instead a concrete biological example is demonstrated in the article. Moreover, the title says that MetaGenSense can visualise its results. However, this is not shown in the article. Therefore I would advise the authors to consider replacing the current figure with a figure demonstrating the results of a concrete biological use case. The discussion and conclusion seem to be a summary rather than a discussion. MetaGenSense seems to lack many of the standard requirements of a quality software product We could not find any documentation. The README file on GitHub does not contain any information. The last update to the code was months ago, suggesting that the program is not being developed and maintained actively. We could not find any tests. We could not find any examples, demos or even screenshots of the interface. Therefore we are not convinced that MetaGenSense adheres to the journals quality standards. We believe that the article should be revisited and documentation, live examples and tests should be added to the software before the article should be indexed.