The authors have reported an interesting case of headache after a lumbar epidural procedure. There is value in reminding anesthesiologists of the potential for pneumocephalus (PC) when air is used for the loss-of-resistance procedure. Their description makes it clear that the patient developed an almost immediate headache, which resolved rather quickly. This was followed by a more chronic, at least partially postural headache starting day 2 after the procedure. While the initial headache was almost certainly due to air injection into the subdural or subarachnoid space and a resulting PC, the subsequent headache may well have been a more classic post-dural puncture headache (PDPH), perhaps with some residual from the PC, given its time course (starting day 2, continuing for the better part of two weeks, which is later and longer than most PC headaches, but exactly what one might expect from a PDPH). The authors mention that PC headaches typically last less than 5 days (the few we have seen have tended to last hours not days). A bit more discussion of this possibility/probability could be in the manuscript. It is possible, especially when one considers that the neurosurgeons considered the PC not significant, that the patient could have been treated with a epidural blood patch to relieve her headache and shorten her hospital stay. In general, PC headaches are not as obviously postural as PDPH, so while certainly symptoms overlap, I am not sure it is fair for the authors to state that the symptoms are The authors suggest that because no CSF was seen with the initial placement the Tuohy needle may have been in the subdural space, and give an anatomic explanation of how air gets form the subdural to the intracerebral subarachnoid space; this is a possible explanation, but it is also possible that the air was injected subarachnoid but the needle withdrawn before CSF was appreciated. It is interesting that Roderick, in 1985 (ref 5 in this case report) reported a PC after injection of ~ 2ml air during attempted spinal anesthesia; in that case too there were problems obtaining CSF; perhaps they were subdural. There are some unimportant issues with English usage that do not detract from understanding the main points of the case report. I am not entirely sure I understand the mechanism of headache from PC as described in the case report. The authors cite fast brain motion and meningeal irritation. Any brain movement must be short-lived, explaining only the immediate, initial headache, and I am not sure how air is much of an Unless the air is of a very significant volume, it seems likely that it has quite small effects after a few hours or a day or two; hence my suspicion this case is more a PDPH than PC headache.