This manuscript aims to do three things. It 1) offer a review of the literature on the effects of news articles about genetics on lay people’s beliefs in genetic determinism, 2) presents a framework for understanding and predicting this interaction, and 3) tests this framework through a (very) brief empirical study. This is an interesting subject of research, though I fear it tries to do too much and ends up not doing any of it particularly well. I think the article will require substantial revisions before it can be considered for publication. I have two main concerns. Firstly, I think the literature review is too long, yet not thorough enough. While the paper makes claims about science communication generally, and about the effect of media article on public attitudes and public understanding of science, the literature that is actually reviewed is very limited and specific, but is discussed at unnecessary length. For example, there are virtually no references to science communication generally, and more importantly, there is no review of the very extensive general literature on the effect of media discussion of science on public attitudes. This seems a large omission, and picking up the small handful of papers that specializes on the issue of the effects of news articles about genetics on lay people’s beliefs is simply too small a field to allow for a meaningful review. Specifically, the literature on framing would be helpful here, as would a more broadly researched, but more succinctly presented discussion on the role and capacity to the media to influence attitudes. My second concern is that I don’t fully see the point of the proposed framework given the results from the survey. As mentioned by another reviewer, “the results of [the] brief study […] seem to disprove such hypothesis.” If the framework is not supported by the study, I’m unsure what the value is spending so much time in developing it and presenting it in the first place. I wish I could be more positive, but I’m not sure what this proposed framework does to advance our understanding in light of the study. I’m not quite sure what would make this a stronger study as I’m unsure of its purpose. Perhaps further empirical tests might reveal that this framework is, indeed, helpful and accurately representative, and this might be a helpful way to move the idea forward. 