In this proof of concept (POC), the authors have implemented the use of blockchain technology to obtain secure, unfalsifiable consent in a clinical trial. Although the authors have a done a good job in explaining the methods of this POC and how they achieved the aims of the study, there are still remain some concerns, which, if addressed, can substantially improve the manuscript. While talking about a public ledger, authors should explain what ‘publically verifiable’ means in the context of a clinical trial. To the understanding from the manuscript, the authors have used the timestamping feature of blockchain as the basis to explain how the verification will work. This is a vital facet of blockchain, but the extent of this in a clinical trial consent would only be limited to the fact that a consent was signed at a particular time. Whether the consent can be ‘verified’ to be legitimate is still unclear. This then boils down to the physical identity crisis, which in itself can be a separate research manuscript. The authors can add a paragraph explaining the limitations of this crucial drawback in detail. So far there is only a brief description in the manuscript. Additionally, a public ledger may be unpopular with patients for enrollment. A detailed explanation on what ‘public’ means and which entities will be able to see the participant’s consent data from the distributed ledger needs to be highlighted. In the introduction, the authors have given examples where the consents have been mishandled. Some of the examples are not specific to the consent mishandling, for example, the DECREASE studies where the concern was of falsifying the data as a whole. The manuscript would look more precise if examples of clinical trials or research studies specific to consent mishandling are given. Secondly, the authors highlight the empowering the patients and improved enrollment in a clinical trial. It would help if authors expand on patient empowering. From the manuscript’s current structure, the patient empowerment remains at same status as it would be in a written consent, to the extent that patients can pull out of the study whenever they want and can see which entities are involved in the study. Hence, a discussion about this crucial aspect is worth including in the manuscript. Thirdly, the general descriptions of blockchain (ie, 'a giant public datastore') are not entirely correct, and the strengths of the technology ('backbone of the circulation of digital assets, powering any kind of services…') are overstated. Furthermore, the unfalsifiable nature of any particular blockchain depends on a distributed deployment, as in many implementations, the person/group owning a majority of the miners could change or alter data. Authors should elaborate on these specifics so that the readers have the understanding of the specific nuances of blockchain. Finally, many of the concerns and issues with consent noted in the introduction (not obtaining IRB approval of new consent forms, etc) are administrative issues – auditing of these updates could be done with the system presented here, but use of blockchain alone would not necessarily prevent all of these issues from occurring. In the methods section, the authors argue on why they opted for bitcoin blockchain (because of stability, immutability, large mining network). Given that the authors rely on smart contracts for future developments, it is difficult to understand why they did not opt for the Ethereum which has the same benefits as those of bitcoin blockchain with added benefit of smart contract platform. The manuscript would improve if the authors give more context on their choice, and also, what they envision would be used in a real-world application of their POC in a clinical trial. The authors state in prior reviews that the exact chaincode/blockchain data cannot be shared for review purposes due to the presence of private information. While this is undoubtedly true, it is difficult to understand, based on the current description, how the authors envision deploying a decentralized system if this is an issue. We agree with concerns from other reviewers regarding how much of a proof of concept was implemented, and concerns with key steps of the process such as identify verification. While it is understood that this is a proof of concept, it would be helpful as a method paper to at least detail how these issues would be resolved in an actual application deployed beyond the proof of concept stage. Another aspect of the blockchain important to discuss is the cost effectiveness. Blockchain is resource intensive technology which requires a lot of computational power. Given that the funding of the many research studies is limited, a calculated investment is always required. If authors can talk a little about the logistics and cost effectiveness of this blockchain setup, it would bring a new dimension to the manuscript. Finally, the manuscript can improve on the language. Even after three revisions, there are typing and grammatical errors which are concerning. Manuscript can improve a lot if the authors can thoroughly proof read the manuscript and revise accordingly. 