This is a well referenced, very interesting paper which attempts and in large part succeeds, in critically examining, and in many cases rejecting common “risk factors/ determinants” of high STI (sexually transmitted infection) rates. The authors have traced a long history in mathematical modelling of primarily HIV and summarised the most common and consistently found explanations of “peak HIV” rates at an ecological level. I think this article is thought provoking and even if one is not entirely convinced by it, it adds much deeper and more critical thought to assumptions of mathematical modellers and epidemiologists about the immediate causes of HIV than I have ever seen. I am glad it is published. I think the paper could be improved in general by addressing two major areas. First, some mention of the empirical study of sexual networks should be made.There are examples from all over the world which the authors may use to strengthen their ultimate hypothesis; that sexual interactions between sexual network members in which some people are infected with STI are the primary and necessary conditions for STI to transmit 1 , 2 . This will help define for their readers very clearly the fact that because ecological findings focus on whole systems, whether national or regional, these studies are more indicative of large networks and should not be regarded as “weaker” evidence as they are in epidemiology. The authors can also argue that the ultimate risk factor on an individual level for acquiring gonorrhoea for example is having unprotected sex with another person with gonorrhea; that is it and that is all. Other factors are moderators of that plain risk; such as use of condoms, cumulative frequency of intercourse, etc. Concurrency or number of sex partners are indirect indicators of the risk itself; because transmission of STI is an interaction which occurs between at minimum two people, the other “factors” are reduced to characteristics or behaviors of individuals within the population, which again are proxies, though more proximal than age, sex, ethnic background or income. The second thing I would be very clear on is the part played by ethnic group. This is again just a proxy for sexual interactions and cultural norms, and may not be a consistent nor accurate marker. However, it is very easy in the discussion of HIV in Africa to “racialize” the epidemic and/or behavior. For example, the effect of the labour policies under apartheid South Africa, where black labourers were forced into a pattern of migrant labor for a year at a time from their rural homes to large urban or mining compounds did much to accelerate sexual interactions which in turn exacerbated HIV spread. Likewise, sexual violence in some parts of Africa is extremely high, and while it is not mentioned here specifically, certainly does contribute to transmission. However, this also is linked to harsh colonial conditions and the authors could make it very clear that this should not be interpreted as being a intrinsically ethnic or cultural characteristic. The successful Ugandan educational intervention is a great demonstration of that. One of the best network explanations of different STI rates in people of different ethnic backgrounds can be found in 3 , pages 689-697. More minor comments follow; Page 2 - I love Figure 1. Page 3, 2nd paragraph - better give credit where credit is due 4 . Page 3, 3rd paragraph - so concurrency may be a marker of connectivity; or a determinant, but one may equally pose that if one has many sex partners the only way to fit them all in is to have concurrent ones.. and that may have an effect also on frequency of intercourse with each partner. Lots of food for thought! Page 4 - wonderful summary! I would love to see a systematic review which includes an exhaustive list with negative findings. Again, one could look for only proximal causes of transmission rather than secondary or structural determinants. Page 5 - you state that “Peak high prevalence HIV is based generally of high quality longitudinal data”. Please justify and provide references. Page 5 - the statements on poverty and socioeconomic status, gender inequality which are not consistently associated with HIV are great; this is because these determinants are only distally linked to transmission. Page 5, paragraph 8 - to describe numbers of partners more accurately I would use the median, range or IQR as the mean implies these distributions are Gaussian, but they are not. The devil is literally in "de tail" Also one may have to look at the penile anal penetration risk of transmission which is not exactly comparable to penile vaginal sex. But I agree in principle. Page 7, paragraph 1 - I would be more accurate here, HSV is certainly treatable, but not as easily diagnosed or treated as the bacterial STI. Page 7, Table 2 - you may find the discussion of ethnic homophily and heterogeneity in networks interesting in 1 , 2 . Great paper, good thinking, and great to challenge convention! 