The authors have assessed hemispheric asymmetry using. CAEPs. /pa/ and /ta/ stimuli in three conditions (mono R, L and dichotic (two orders)) which were used to record CAEPs on normal hearing adults, young adults children with age matched learning disabled children. All participants were right handed individuals. Results revealed a significant hemispheric asymmetry was observed in normal adults and adult children but not in LD children, irrespective of stimuli and conditions (MonL L hemisphere/ right hemisphere; monR R hemisphere/ left hemisphere and DI RH and DI LH). Specific comments Introduction Recent studies were reviewed to strengthen their need. Research questions and hypothesis are missing. I felt purpose needs to still be strengthened on importance of CAEPs and hemispheric asymmetry. In addition, consider to mention the objectives of the study. Method Research design is missing. Justification for stimuli specifically for hemispheric asymmetry is needed. Authors have told that in previous studies similar stimuli were used to assess hemispheric asymmetry thus we also used. This explanation is not correct. Consider to justify. Is the stimuli is normalized? If yes, how have you normalized it? Since CAEP is exogenous potentials it is preferred to give acoustic characteristics of both stimuli (Spectrogram and spectra). These stimuli were presented at 70 dB HL. How these stimuli are calibrated? Consider to write the procedure of calibration. Authors have used high intensity to deliver the stimuli, is there any specific reason? ROI is well explained. Ocular channel is activated? If yes, please specify. I know authors have removed bad channels and bad blocks were visually inspected. An eye blink induces artifacts and has an amplitude similar to that of a response. Results Authors have used appropriate statistical analyses to prove the aim of study. A repeated measure ANOVA with between subject factors as group was used to assess hemispheric asymmetry in each component of CAEP (peak latency and amplitude). I feel it is two way repeated measure (? condition* 2 stimuli) with between subject factor as groups. Thus, I suggest authors to mention the factors (3*2*3). In P1, N1 and P2 latencies what is the post hoc test used? Sometimes authors have used condition and hemispheric asymmetry interchangeably. Consider to maintain the same term through out the manuscript. Stimuli* condition result is mentioned and what about the interaction effect of stimuli* condition* group. Though main effect of ‘group’ is not significant but interaction of stimuli and condition may have an effect on group. Consider to give the result of stimuli* condition* group. In condition there was a significant difference and authors have used paired sample t test. There are three groups (normal, young adult and LD). If these three groups are considered then authors should use alpha corrections. Anyway a significant difference has come but it is prepared to use alpha corrected. In the same figures the waveforms of NH and LD for different condition is required rather than representing individually. Discussion should have been in the heading of a) hemispheric difference on each component of CAEPs Latency Amplitude b) Between groups on on each component of CAEPs Latency Amplitude 