The study describes the results of a survey of 300 patients age 40 years and older attending the Manchester Royal Eye Hospital regarding their use of technology and reasons for not using it. While the use of a simple and short apparently non-validated questionnaire along with a convenience sample limits the value of the results, it nonetheless provides data in an area that is currently underrepresented in the literature, i.e., how technology may be accepted and used in populations with special considerations, like limited eyesight. Most of the following specific suggestions for improvement are minor: Methods, paragraph 2: More details are needed to described the administration of the questionnaire (some of which are actually alluded to in the Discussion), including whether the questionnaire had to be completed on site (and before seeing a provider) and whether help was systematically available to the survey takers. Also, with such a variety of ages and conditions, it would have been helpful to have some measure of eyesight impairment. Was there any attempt to ascertain this? Results, paragraph 1: Gender numbers do not add up. 169 male + 127 female + 3 did not specify =299 (not 300). Results, paragraph 1: It is stated that 44% of patients were in the 66-79 years age category. It would be helpful to give the full breakdown by age, with n’s included, perhaps in Table 1 (which is entitled “Age of patients”, but in fact is "Use of Technology by Age Category”). Results, graphs: Although the graphs are an efficient way to convey the results (and tends to be preferred by readers) compared with tables, given the comment in the Discussion that participants often didn’t answer questions, which may have skewed results), it would be helpful to have the denominators for the percentages reported in the graphs. Minor editorial comments: Discussion, paragraph 3: “the over 80s” should be changed to “participants over age 80” or something less colloquial. Discussion, paragraph 9: would add “relatively” to the description of the sample size as large. 