The topic is interesting. However, I think the package makes simple things which many other similar packages do, and omit some intermediate steps required to refine the analysis. First, the authors should provide a list of thresholding (either single or dual) methods to binarize images. The single Otsu, the minimum algorithm, the two-corner method are some of the algorithm which should be developed. The package could also use some dependancies from other packages to implement these thresholding. For instance, the rtiff package contains the function autoThreshold which implement the Ridler-Calvard thresholding. I also suggest take a look at the caiman package which contains tool for canopy image analysis, see also below. Second, users can also process single channel image or decide to use a single channel (for example, the blue channel is frequently used for canopy images). So the user should have flexibility on choosing the image feature to process (setting the channel, setting the threshold). Canopy images are usually fish eye images, and therefore they require correction for lens projection. In addition, canopy openness should be weighted for zenith angle in fish eye image. Similarly, gap fraction is required for zenith ring. Thus, the packages should allow to work with fish eye (circular image), namely correct for lens distortion, setting the circular inner mask, extract information for zenith angle ranges (inner rings). I suggest to take a look in the caiman package to inherit its functions. An interesting attribute from the packages is the identification of row or column gaps (holes), namely continuous sequences of white pixels. In my view, a very interesting output would be the identification and the labelling of all holes in the image, along with their summary statistics (e.g. number of holes, size of each hole in number of pixels, average, sd and so on). I think the package will improve strongly if authors can implement such function. This would allow the extraction of canopy attributes from images 1 . 