The tool provides additional features to the Open PHACTS platform to simplify the access of interaction information from WikiPathways. Some comments: The authors go into some detail about the MIM/SBGN representations used by WikiPathways. To my understanding, WikiPathways makes use of the format GPML as a data storage format. Some description of the relationship of GPML and the WPRDF format would be nice for readers to understand the data processing involved. Looking at the code repository, the API interface seems to be built using Swagger. Is there the plan to provide supported client packages to access the API from various programming languages? Are users encouraged to produce their own using the swagger-codegen ( https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen ) project? Have the authors had any experience with these auto-generated packages in the context of their API? The sentence "However, the new methods also support interactions with multiple sources and targets.", are these the methods that are elsewhere described as not implemented currently? What entity IDs are acceptable? The examples show ENSEMBL is this the only acceptable ID source? Does the documentation provide any examples for ID conversion from much more common gene symbols, for example? I assume that when "up" or "down" interactions are not specified for return then both are returned is this correct? Are the example interactions (i.e. inhibition, stimulation, conversion) the only ones available in the API? If not, is there a listing of the interaction types with description of the interaction type. It would be more clear to just state the call function name rather than "the first and third calls" and "the api call" in the example queries section. Additional examples of the result output for all described function calls would be helpful for the described API calls. Additional examples that highlight the integrative nature of Open PHACTS would be nice. For example, to show how results of the currently described API calls can paired the other data available, such as the CHEBI data from the platform. 