The authors are addressing an important issue -- the development of foods for children that will not impede their growth, but also not contribute to adiposity, that children will like to eat, and that will withstand pasteurization. In their case they have chosen to add a specific resistant starch (HAM-RS2)- to yogurt. There was a good rationale for them to select this resistant starch as previous studies done in rats, and some done in humans, have shown beneficial results. They performed a series of sensory tests comparing the yogurt with resistant starch to their control yogurt (containing amylopectin). Except for the color of the product all other sensory attributes were rated better for the control than the yogurt containing resistant starch.The statistical analyses appear to be acceptable except there was no stated allowance for multiple T tests. Despite this, it is clear that the children liked the control better than the one containing resistant starch. Instead of calling this product a "bust" the authors have chosen to call this a success as a certain percentage still liked the experimental product sufficiently to eat it. One wonders how the abstract would have read if the resistant starch containing product scores were reversed with the controls. One would imagine that they would have been delighted if not ecstatic. The "clinical trial" in children was important to do, as it provided information as to the acceptability of the resistant starch over time. However, there were only 4 children in this trial and one, who was pre-pubescent (age 6), was different from the others (2) 10 y and (1) 14, and the results from that individual were also different from the other 3. In one way this is really a preliminary test of the resistant starch, not a trial, as there was no control. All 4 children ate the resistant-starch yogurt, in amounts based, in part, on their ages. Again, the results of this trial were disappointing if weight gain was a primary outcome measure. All gained weight, and for some this was substantial. The resistant starch appeared to be fermented to SCFA, but the values for pH and SCFA were reported in a previous paper. If weight gain, or gain of muscle mass and not fat stores was an important endpoint and these children were still growing, the study would have benefitted by a control group of the amylopectin containing yogurt. The title of the paper seems incomplete as it doesnt mention the aim of the pilot study. Ive tried to come up with the purpose of the clinical trial, but the fact that Im unsure what the goal was is impeding me. Is it testing the fermentability of the resistant starch product? If so, it should provide pH and SCFA data. Is it testing whether or not children will eat this product for a month, then it should say that. If its about weight gain/loss then it needed a control. In summary, I think this idea of accepting a paper and then asking experts in the field to comment is excellent, and Im glad to be part of the process. These authors are experts in what they are doing, and they have found some important information about a natural, granular, type 2RS from high-amylose maize (HAM-RS2). Others working in this field can benefit from the fact that they presented their data in what could be characterized as a preliminary study. However, there are two points that bother me about the interpretation of their data. First, they put a very positive spin on the HAM-RS2 intervention, when by almost all accounts this was not a positive outcome. This really should be toned down. Second, the authors make statements about the benefits of fermentability that come across as "facts" when rather this is an open and unresolved issue. For example, when discussing HAM-RS2 they say "decreases plasma cholesterol and triglycerides, increases satiety, increases insulin sensitivity and is anti-adipogenic in adult populations." Although they show several citations that have shown this, they have not reviewed the entire literature, and they make the statement as if it is fact. This needs to be qualified. In a different place they say "People eat for volume and consume fewer calories when food has a lower caloric density." This is Barbara Rollss hypothesis, but not everyone would agree with this statement. In fact, Rolls herself says it mostly applies to men, not women. So, please go back through your comments that are stated as FACTS and perhaps modify them. 