The report is of a small study of 30 people with Alzheimer's disease, 9 of whom died within 1.5 years of baseline assessment. Information is provided on recorded cause of death and participants who died are compared to the remainder on a range of anthropometric, haematological, biochemical and nutritional indices recorded at baseline. I'm all in favour of data being in the public domain; however, the discussion section needs to be fundamentally revised before the paper can be viewed as accepted. The conclusions which can be drawn are very limited by the sample size and do not adequately support the extensive material presented in the discussion, so this should be substantially abbreviated as described below. There are also aspects of the methodolgy which need to be clearer. While it is reasonable to display a breakdown of causes of death, and reasonable to comment on the relatively low proportion of death certificates mentioning AD (which has been described in other samples), it is not appropriate to draw conclusions about dementia-related factors contributing to causes of death. Conditions such as respiratory disease are common causes of death in any older population and the study does not evaluate whether they are any higher in people with dementia than the general population, so it is misleading to be discussing, for example, elevated risks of pneumonia or cancer or whatever. Although I don't object to the authors displaying descriptive data on their baseline covariates stratified according to subsequent death, a study of this size would only be able to identify very large differences at statistical significance; therefore I don't feel that it is appropriate to be discussing the findings in any more detail than a simple presentation of descriptive data. The difference in phosphorus levels is highly likely to represent type 1 statistical error because of the very large number of comparisons made, so it is reasonable not to draw any inferences from this. The rest of the discussion about risk factors for mortality is not justified because the study does not have statistical power to detect these associations and, indeed, no significant associations are identified. It is reasonable to comment on levels of survival in the sample, but I don't think that anything can be concluded about stage of dementia and survival because the numbers are simply not large enough. The repeated description of the study as cross-sectional is misleading. The study took a group of 30 people and followed them up for mortality. It is therefore surely a cohort study? Similarly, I don't understand the sentence in the third-to-last paragraph: "In addition, the information was not collected before the patient’s death due to the improbability of each case." Surely all the information was collected before death (apart from the death certification)? As far as I can tell, the participants were people who were recorded as receiving medications for AD and who were then approached and visited at home. There does not appear to have been any formal evaluation of the diagnosis, apart from the completion of a CDR. Is this correct? It would be helpful if the sample identification and recruitment process was a little more clear. 