The case series reports brain tumors and cesarean delivery (CD) over a five year period in Cleveland Clinics, Ohio. The stated aim was to elucidate management suggestions from previously performed cases in their institution. The case series includes seven patients; 5 with preCD and 2 with postCD diagnosis. The results state that "over half patients underwent CD with craniotomy up to 45 days post CD". Only one woman had craniotomy during pregnancy. Tables 1 and 2 somewhat clarify this confusing information. The authors report in the results that one patient had tumor diagnosed during pregnancy and had peripartum craniotomy, yet table 2 reports three such cases. Table 1 reports the anesthesia drugs used for craniotomy surgery in the seven patients. Since only 3 patients had craniotomy with CD, it is not clear why Apgar scores are reported here for the patients who had post CD craniotomy. Three patients, including one at 22 weeks gestation and two postCD had awake craniotomys. The authors report that fetal monitoring was used in only one of the awake craniotomy patients. It is my understanding that the other two had already delivered at time of craniotomy. The stated study aim was to provide management suggestions for anesthetic management of pregnant patients with brain tumors. I assumed this meant management for the CD. There are few details regarding the CD surgery, and four patients undergoing craniotomy were no longer pregnant at time of the craniotomy. Therefore table 3 also doesn't make sense- it is titled "management of pregnant patients for brain tumor resection" - again, four patients are no longer pregnant. The authors present an algorithm for delivery of women with brain tumors. I could not find in their results any case of VD, all seemed to have CD. I wonder why the two postpartum diagnosed patients had CD? Their tumor was discovered 1 and 3 weeks postpartum. The authors mention that VD is a delivery option, but their study does not bring new evidence for this. The algorithm combines information from other studies and is quite clear, but I wonder if their series adds to our knowledge. For example, stating that propofol was used in six patients and is controversial with newborns is not relevant for the four women who had craniotomy postpartum. Same goes for isoflurane and later - dexmetotomidine. The literature review of pharmacological agents is nicely presented. However again the conclusion reporting safety of des/iso is not particularly relevant, as some women were not pregnant when the drugs were given.