This paper provides an observational report of the number of drug resistant bacteria isolated from infected burn wounds in patients in a hospital in Iraq. Increasing numbers of drug resistant organisms are identified with increasing length of hospital stay. The most commonly identified organism was Pseudomonas aeruginosa , a bacteria that commonly identified in burn wound infections. Overall, the science in this article is sound. Appropriate MDR testing is used and compared to accepted standards. Methods section: It is unclear if an institutional review board approved this study; this needs to be directly mentioned in the methods section. No statistics were performed on this study; however, a simple Student's T test could be performed to determine statistical significance between two groups or analysis of variance (ANOVA) could be performed to show statistically significant differences between the number of isolates depending on length of hospital stay. This could also be done for number and type of drug resistant organisms to show which antibiotic has the least resistance. Including statistics would strengthen this work. Discussion section: Why are biofilms mentioned at all? This seems out of place, especially since no testing was done to determine if these microbes are capable of making biofilms. This either needs to be removed or more appropriately addressed in the context of the study. Conclusions section: This could be strengthened. For example, it seems that a majority of the organisms were not resistant to imipenem. This is an important finding for this hospital and should be mentioned as an antibiotic that could help this facility control MDR infections. It would be helpful if the authors addressed the following questions in this section: What new information does this study provide? Is this important for the hospital’s burn ward? Will this increase awareness of the prevalence of MDR organisms and encourage physicians to use imipenem for treatment of infections? Other comments: Metagenomic sequencing and biofilm testing would both be interesting additions to this study. Metagenomics could be used to determine what other bacteria were present in the infections that were not culturable. 