Here are my comments on this article: Page 3: “ Concerns on reproducibility of science have lead to recent calls for a shift to better practices ” – correct to ‘led’ Page 3: “ Building and quantifying AOPs requires multiscale integration of all available and relevant -omics datasets, ” – drop the ‘-omics’ Page 7: “The table highlights sources of information on in vivo chemical inhalation and individual in vitro chemical toxicity. The type of data available and user accessibility (e.g., open source vs licensing) have also been highlighted.” – User accessibility is not provided in all cases so I suggest adding ‘where known’ to caption Page 8: “and allapplications need to employ sound, reproducible scientific bases and good practices” – please correct to ‘and all applications’ and ‘basis’ Page 9: “Experiments are planned and protocols as well as metadata are recorded for each of the data entry and curated in ISA-Tab files.” – Consider rewording of the Figure 2 caption as meaning is unclear Page 9: “…on organotypic acute human buccal or nasal tissue cultures (i.e., the organotypic buccal and nasal datasets, respectively) …three dimensional (3-D) organotypic buccal and nasal epithelial culture models …in vitro human 3-D buccal or nasal epithelial culture …in vitro human 3-D buccal or nasal epithelial culture” – Consider rewording point 2) as text is repetitive Page 14: “Although this will include formal checks of files’ correctness with respect to the ISA-Tab standard (as already performed, e.g., by ISACreator), equipment data, log files, already-available databases, and computational infrastructure will be interfaced to provide the needed information at least partially.” – Consider rewording as meaning is unclear Page 15: “researchers need to focus on the biological small data” – What is meant by biological small data? Conclusion: “the platform will allow versioning and commenting of protocols” – clarification is needed on the term protocol; is this study protocols or data analysis protocols? Page 9: “Figure 9. Concepts of an intelligent, knowledge mining and visualization platform for systems toxicology.” – Clarification needed on the link between Figure 9 and the contents of this article Page 18: Reference Source – the link to reference 14 is not working Page 19: “ Meyer P, Alexopoulos LG, Bonk T, et al.: Verification of systems biology research in the age of collaborative competition. Nat Biotechnol. 2011; 29(9): 811–5.” – Reference 39 is a duplicate of reference 18 In the Supplementary data: The MESH LOINC entries are missing a description “A vocabulary for clinical care, translational and basic research, and public information and administrative activities.” - … and basic research, public information and administrative activities. “Mainly because of the emerging need of systems toxicology to controlled vocabularies and also the lack of suitable ontologies for this domain, the CSEO prepares the ground for integrative systems-based research in the exposure science.” - …emerging need of systems toxicology for controlled vocabularies… in exposure science. “Metrical units for use in conjunction with PATO” – What is PATO? “ A structured classification of chemical compounds of biological relevance.” – Remove space before A “The set of standardized ontologies used to define the domain-specific knowledge are found in Table 1” – Where is the Table 1 referred to? “Ontology developed to harmonize the toxicology datasets from the pharmaceutical industry made available in the eTox project and allow for comparative data-mining across multiple databases to test hypotheses” - …harmonize the nonclinical toxicology datasets… and allows comparative… multiple datasets to test hypotheses 