This paper, entitled ‘I’m Like You, Just Not In That Way: Tag Networks to Improve Collaborative Filtering’, describes an algorithm to improve the performance of collaborative filtering, by introducing tag groups. In addition, in order to improve the performance of former naive tag-based approaches in metrics recall and satisfaction, the author also constructed trust tag networks and proposed several methods: hybrid approach, mutual clustering coefficient and random walk. It is interesting and innovative to introduce tag groups and tag networks which can avoid complex semantic analyses, and improve the performance of collaborative filtering in some aspects. The author also did well in the data pre-processing and methods discussion. However, the article needs to improve its clarity in the methods introduction. Also, the background of training steps is fuzzy. My technical comments are as follows: In most of the method introductions, the author may pay too much attention to semantic description of these approaches, but ignores their simplicity and clarity, which may seem somewhat confusing. For example, in the section of ‘a random walk’, much semantic description of random walk method in network may push readers to a confusing state. It would be clear and simple by introducing matrix multiplication and probability equations. The same situations happens in the section ‘a hybrid approach’, ‘mutual clustering coefficient’, and so on. My key concern is that all of approaches in this article have a step in the method where half of the documents belonging to target user or tag group are removed, which called the target set. In my mind, this step may mean separating training and testing sets for the recommendation task. However, it seems somewhat obscured. Based on prior experiences, all of training and testing samples are selected from a data set by specific or random ordering at one time. I do not sure whether this removing step is sound, without strong evidence cited to support this method. There are a few minor concerns in this article. For instance, values of metric precision in Table 4 are missing, without specific reasons. Above all, I suggest this paper is revised and submitted again.