The massive presence of sponges is known as playing a leading role in the process of biofiltration of Baikal's water. Recently the cases of sponge disease have been expanded rapidly. The significance of the current study is coming from the attempt to investigate molecular aspects of sponge disease using a systems biology approach. In the present submission the authors provide data on the genome and transcriptome of chloroplasts from symbiotic algae. Metagenomic and metatranscriptomic sequencing data was used for a template-based assembly of the chloroplast genome of algae, and a mapping of sequencing reads to the obtained genome sequence was a subject of interpretation, based on a detection of polymorphic sites. The advantage of the study is the exploration of natural samples, improvement of methods of bioinformatical analysis and provocative ideas. I think that the manuscript deserves to be indexed, but there are concerns which the authors need to address: What was the number of analyzed biological replicas or independent samples? Do the authors expect the same spectra if another sample(s) of sponge tissues would be processed with the same pipeline? What would be the distribution of variations in polymorphic sites in another series of experiments? Were the “healthy”, “diseased” and “dead” samples collected from the same spot? How can the authors be sure that they are dealing with the same species? Could it be that what the authors proposed as “adaptive mutations” is in fact a difference between different subspecies? I will recommend to tone down the conclusions and to discuss possible alternative interpretations. The statement on a presence of adaptive mutations in the chloroplast genome is too strong. It requires confirmation with more independently obtained samples. There is also no evidence that even if these mutations will be confirmed, that they are “true adaptive” mutations and provide the organism with any physiological advantage. Therefore the title is misleading in my opinion. I suggest also to provide more details of the overall design of the study and on novelty in bioinformatics approaches. 