In the first version I reviewed, you said, "This [green] route is dependent on journal or publisher policies on self-archiving (sherpa.ac.uk/romeo)." That was untrue or incomplete and I offered this comment: It overlooks rights retention. Some individual authors retain enough rights to authorize green OA on their own. While this may be fairly rare, rights-retention OA policies at universities are increasingly common. More than 80 institutions in North America, Europe, Africa, and Asia have now adopted rights-retention OA policies. Under these policies, the faculty grant non-exclusive rights to their institution before they sign future publishing contracts. The institution then has permission to make those future articles OA without having to seek permission from publishers. (The institutions also grant the same non-exclusive rights back to authors.) For more detail on rights-retention OA policies, see Stuart Shieber and Peter Suber, "Good Practices for University OA Policies." http://bit.ly/goodoa You revised the text in a way that missed my point and misstated my position: "While academics themselves may have little power in debates regarding copyright, institutes could claim ownership of the work they likely already own by invoking their rights under the work made-for-hire doctrine (Denicola, 2006). However, it is difficult to imagine researchers favoring university-held rather than journal-held copyright, and a system of non-exclusive rights is preferred, as is reflected in OA policies and OA journals (Suber, 2012)." Here's the main point: More than 80 universities around the world have adopted rights-retention OA policies. These policies are adopted by faculty votes, not administrative edicts. At these institutions the rights needed to authorize OA are not seized from faculty by the institution, or claimed by the institution through work-for-hire. These policies presuppose that the rights initially belong to faculty, not the institution. If the institution is to exercise them, faculty must voluntarily grant them. (There are details we needn't go into here, for example, that we're only talking about non-exclusive rights, and that these policies generally include waiver options when faculty don't want the institution to have rights to a given work.) At Harvard, which pioneered this type of policy, four of the school-level votes were unanimous. In short, it's not at all "difficult to imagine researchers favoring university-held...copyright." On the contrary, it's easy to imagine and widely attested. Green OA does not always depend on permission from publishers. Increasingly it depends on rights retention by authors, through carefully drafted and widely supported university policies. That's a fact. My opinion is that that's a good thing. You needn't share my opinion, and needn't mention the fact. But please don't misrepresent the fact or reverse my opinion.