The review of the training activities in the de.NBI network focuses on the description of the courses delivered as well as the contributing centers. Partially owing to the complex set-up of the centers it is a bit short on evaluation of what has worked and what was learned in the process. Including more experiences - courses that were not oversubscribed and those that were would improve the manuscript significantly. I cannot believe that no other lessons were learned after delivering ~200 courses. The discussion of lessons learned is vary valuable to course providers in other infrastructures (such as me). I acknowledge that such critical reviews might not find universal support across the many people involved in the training activities in de.NBI. The structure of the overview can be improved by shortening the sections devoted to the individual centers and instead discussing items that are taught across all centers, such as basic statistics courses. The contribution from the individual centers are too long and frequently include vague or obvious statements (existence of an HPC facility, the online announcement of course and requirements). A stronger editing mandate would be advised. Software developed in a particular center for which training is provided should only be mentioned in the section that discusses the training. There is not usually need to repeat them multiple times in the text. Figures: Figure 1. The composition of the individual centers by cities is difficult even for someone acquainted with the geography of Germany. There is space to include the names of the centers, which could then receive less coverage in the text. Figure 2. Has no content, would recommend to delete. The geographic spread of de.NBI nodes using AAI provides no insight beyond the names. Figure 3. The course title is repeated in caption and should be removed from the graphics. Altogether the whole figure could be represented on a easy to comprehend 3x4 table with a higher data to ink ratio. It would be more interesting to see the number of open seats per course and/or a resolution, maybe at the level of quarters. Figure 4. Pie charts. 4B is only repeating information already included in full in the text. Again, it would be more interesting to see the distribution of the courses at a different level, e.g. to see if some courses are doing very well or whether the numbers are similarly overall. It's not important to learn which courses exactly under perform but more what the course provider thought about the cause and what was done to rectify it. 