 Background The area of the study is highly relevant to sleep medicine and addresses the compounding factors of polypharmacy in a single case study design. The pathology of SAD is well explained with all of the major aetiologies explored (chronobiological and neurobiology and in-utero environment examined). The individual approach of treating each person’s with SAD is outlined – the background discussion is very interesting and relevant to personalised medicine. All current treatment approaches have been discussed so to have the complexities with varying (on-off”) nature of SAD. Difference between first and second generation anti-depressants are discussed in relevance to the impact on sleep quality and sleep architecture. The authors have highlighted this very important fact that SSRIs and SNRs used to treat SAD typically cause sleep issues. This ultimately leads to polypharmacy to treat SAD and sleep related issues. Methodology The methodology to determine sleep and activity monitoring is a well validated tool against the gold standard to study sleep - polysomnography. Descriptive statistics are appropriate in this study and report all appropriate information. A univariate regression model was used to determine all important parameters relevant to sleep (including wake, light, deep and REM). This model is appropriate for the study as it provides clear information on the changes in each of the major sleep patterns in response to the trials run for this single case experimental design. Results of the study The result of the study highlights the fundamental importance of personalised medicine and should be published. They have proven in this polypharmacy patient that Cymbalta at therapeutic (60mg) and sub-therapeutic (30mg doses) compromised the participants sleep quality. Subsequent trials identified that no drug trial showed the following: Reduced sleep wake cycle Reduced light sleep Increase in deep sleep Increase time in REM sleep. Because of these trials the study identified an underlying sleep apnea issue with this patient – again supporting the methodology used in this study and the benefits of these trials to improve patient health and outcome. Discussion The discussion is well balanced and is contrasted to current findings in the literature. Limitations of the study have been well explored. The authors have explored that washout periods were not used in this design, they limited the number of times any one drug combination was provided – Agree with this approach. To-date there are no other studies that could have been included in this section of the paper to support the findings. The only real criticism was the structure - the HRV data and sleep apnea was at the very end of the article. I wonder if this could be early in the paper - this really highlighted the significance of the n-of-1 trial being able to uncover this finding in the patient. It seems that the way this information is presented could be improved. 