The scope of this review does not include proof-reading; I have not commented on grammatical or typographical errors. The authors have written a timely and relevant opinion piece which should be welcomed by the genetic counselling community. The article aims to explore how we might experience advancements in genomic technology as patients, consumers and citizens and urges policy makers to take stock of the human response to and pervasiveness of genomics. I strongly agree with the authors’ conclusions that genomics is a current and important topic for society and in need of further psychosocial research. However, I would ask the authors to consider further illustrating and discussing the points made in the conclusion throughout the article. As a general point, it would be helpful to have a brief statement about the academic disciplinary background of the authors to give the reader a better understanding about the context of the article and an idea about the lens through which their opinions are given. Perhaps the potted history of the emergence of genomic technology in the abstract would sit better in the introduction with some comment from the authors on how the availability and reduced cost of technology is influencing its application. Some overstatement maybe avoided, for example, the countries they quote where genomic technology is being used outside the UK do not suggest global utilisation and maybe using alternative phrasing such as the ‘economically developed world’ would reflect the situation more accurately. As this is an opinion piece, it would have been good to see more critical engagement with the literature that the authors have cited and more of their opinion. Perhaps each quotation cited could be followed by comment from the authors; whether they contest, agree in part, find problematic or endorse what has been said. It would be helpful to have a brief explanation of their understanding of certain terms and concepts, as there are often inter and intra-disciplinary differences in definitions, for example, it would be helpful to know what their understanding is of ‘normative bioethics’. It is welcome to see mention of the disability rights perspective and issues of potential discrimination with references to social science literature. Given that the opinion piece calls for a societal review, discusses sociological constructs such as citizenship and outlines current applications of genomic/genetic technologies, maybe it would be improved by further engagement with social science literature. The authors aim to explore the human response to genetic advancements in genetics. A large proportion of the section headed ‘People as patients’ seems focused more on the technological capacity to offer tests and generate information rather than the human response to those technologies. They make the point well about the shared nature of genetic information but stop short of acknowledging that not everyone has the same approach to knowing this information. The point could be enhanced by relating the discussion to the wealth of genetic counselling research that explores the communication of genetic risk in families, thus considering the implications for patients diagnosed with genetic conditions and those who do and do not want to know. I feel that this is a missed opportunity, if not to explore in detail, given the length of the article, at least to mention how finding out genetic information through mainstream diagnostic tests and/or direct to consumer (DTC) genetic testing may influence the communication dynamics within families about genetic risk and what this might mean to people. The authors seem to have assumed normativity in how genetic/genomic information is cascaded throughout families to ‘patients in waiting’ when in contemporary genetic counselling practice we know that this can be complex and challenging. The article would be enhanced by either making explicit their stance towards the current and future applications of genomics which they have highlighted, or identifying authors who contest or problematize the issues. For example, but not limited to, it would be interesting to know their opinions on: Do they uncritically accept that genomics poses responsibilities (Lucassen and Montgomery, 2017) for individuals and what do they understand those responsibilities to be? What place do they think there is for dissenters or test decliners (if any) in the future genomic society? What do they think about mainstreaming? What do they think about the current and purported future use of DTC genetic testing or the issues this currently raises in genetic counselling? What do they make of the claims about the usefulness of genetic information in, for example, the fitness industry? Do they believe that people are equipped to make distinctions about the veracity of claims? Is there a contrasting point to be made in how clinicians interpret the clinical significance of (make distinctions about) genomic information and translate that into clinical care? The authors flag the important idea that genomic testing may create uncertainty and this point could be enhanced by critically discussing the ways in which genomics dispels and confirms uncertainty and the limitations of what can be known versus what can be done. Addressing these issues would go some way to exploring why policy-makers should approach the pervasiveness of genetics with caution. In summary, I believe the authors could state and argue more clearly the limitations to claims that genomics potentially benefits our health, our lifestyle and our cultural practices. Given further critical engagement with these arguments, the opinion article could provide a strong overview of nascent genomics in the early twenty first century. This is a really useful article by leading and emerging researchers in the genetic counselling field and it would be beneficial to hear the authors’ opinions more explicitly stated. 