This paper provides a description and analysis of a publicly released data-set: an annotation of the emotions expressed by characters in different variants of the movie Forrest Gump, in either audio or audio-visual formats. The data-set is interesting in its own right, and will be eminently useful in conjunction with the fMRI data that this group has previously released, and will continue to release. This data paper goes well beyond a standard description of the data-set, by providing analysis and interpretation of the data. I have just one comment with regards to providing direction for eventual interpretation of the data by users: The conflation of gender differences in perceiving emotions with audio vs. visual distinctions is a real concern, and the authors acknowledge this, but the current description does not provide enough direction on how to deal with this potential confound. I think that it would be helpful if a few sentences about gender differences in perceiving emotion would be added, and some evaluation of what the effects of these differences might be in this data. For example, do differences between AO and AV annotations coincide with predictions from the gender difference literature? It is commendable (and still sadly unusual) that that authors make software that is so easy to use, which reproduces pretty much every single statement they make about the data and produces all the figures. That said, I do have a few comments for improvements of this software: Though not strictly necessary, in this day and age, it would be nice to make the scripts provided compatible with python 3 (from a quick look, it looks like the addition of some parentheses should do the trick, and see more below). Making the code PEP8 compatible (e.g. line-wrapping) would make it easier to read. The authors might disagree, but pymvpa seems like an onerous dependency just to supply some utility functions used in the analysis. I would add `plot_bars`, `xunique_combinations` and `unique_combinations` to the code distributed with the data. Heres a gist of the file I used when my computer refused to compile libsvm: https://gist.github.com/arokem/cd4270a78cbad58c2cd4 As a conclusion from the previous point, a (github) repository with the code used here would be good, for future users of this data/code to be able to make their proposals for improvements to the code via pull requests. The state of the code for this publication could be a tag/release in this repo. Minor: Table 3, the description of HAPPYFOR is: 1) not clear and 2) not capitalized (in contrast to the other descriptions). I am guessing you meant something like: "Like HAPPINESS, but as reflected off another character", or some-such. 