This article summarizes data from a subgroup of individuals surveyed about their use of an Individual Development Plan and other factors. Data on the effectiveness and usefulness of the IDP is important to justify policies that require postdoctoral scholars and PhD students to complete an IDP. The findings are interesting and concisely presented. The authors appropriately acknowledge several limitations to this survey. Overall, this manuscript adds important data to a field that is very difficult to quantify, given the variability in the IDP across institutions and training programs. I do have some questions and suggestions to strengthen this manuscript: As noted by other reviewers, the separation of the Likert scale data into “agree” and “disagree” categories, with “neutral” included in the “disagree” category, has the potential to skew results towards the “disagree” category. It would be helpful to analyze the data with neutral responses listed as a separate category. The survey population demographics as reported in Supplementary File 2 show that the population of respondents was 80.7% white. How do the demographics of the survey population reflect the national postdoc population demographics? The numbers in some categories are likely too small to analyze in a statistically meaningful way, but it would be interesting to determine whether different demographic groups (race, gender, etc) had similar responses regarding the usefulness of the IDP and/or mentoring relationships. I agree with other reviewers that this paper has relatively minimal introduction and discussion to place it in the context of other work. The issues faced by postdocs are not identical to those faced by PhD students, and there are multiple recent publications discussing the problems facing postdocs (for example, The Postdoc Experience Revisited, National Academies Press 2014 1 ; Alberts et al, PNAS 2014 2 ). The data in this manuscript that show that only 22.4% of survey respondents felt that the IDP process was helpful to career development suggest that this process may not be an effective strategy for improving the postdoctoral experience and outcomes. 