This well-written manuscript describes the discovery and characterization of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in moose. These SNPs will be valuable for future research and conservation efforts, as they can be used for animal identification, assigning parentage, and estimating intra- and inter-population genetic variability. The SNP discovery and genotyping are done using well-established and clearly described approaches, and care has been taken to avoid false positive SNPs (requiring that both homozygous genotypes be observed for example). The raw sequencing data is available through the SRA database, while the aligned reads (BAM) files are available via the USDA and Intrepid Bioinformatics sites. The final filtered variants are provided with flanking sequence in the supplementary materials. Larger, less-filtered collections of variants are provided in the form of VCF files, again in the supplementary materials. The clear, detailed manuscript and the raw data and progressively filtered results will make is easy for others to reproduce or make use of the results of this work. Minor comments 1. In the last paragraph of the introduction the authors note the challenge of creating a whole genome assembly for use in SNP discovery, and that the use of an existing reference genome from a related species can be an effective alternative. In the discussion section the authors mention that the cross-species mapping approach, however, has the drawback of targeting conserved regions of the genome. I am curious as to why the authors chose not to employ a technique like RADseq for SNP discovery, as it does not depend on the availability of a reference genome and would allow them to better assess minor allele frequency, through the inclusion of more individuals. Also, RADseq would be equally effective at targeting conserved and non-conserved regions. The reasons for not using RADseq (or its potential value in future studies) could be addressed in the introduction. 2. The figure legends for Figure 2 and Figure 3 could be expanded slightly to explain to readers not familiar with IGV which elements represent reads, coverage, reference sequence. Also, in Figure 3 it isn't clear to me why the sequence of one read is shown (moose 4, second read from top, aligned to the sheep reference). 3. In the Methods section "fastq" is written as "FASTQ" and "fastq". 