In this manuscript, the authors reported their newly developed tools, MSF, for interpreting gene lists from differential gene expression analysis. Their tool differs from existing pathway analysis tools: (1) it can identify concertedly modulated sub-graphs from user-provided gene networks, thus it can accounting for cross-talk between pathways; (2) it can potentially infer the flow of biological information in response to a perturbation from source to sink. Like the gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), no arbitrary p-vale threshold is set to dichotomize whole gene lists before applying MSF analysis, instead all genes from DGEA are ordered by p-values from the smallest to the largest. An algorithm similar to the widely used network propagation algorithm is used for subgraph initialization and extension. The authors applied their tools to analyze an RNA-seq dataset from an Ebola virus infection experiment and showed their tool outperform the other tools. They concluded this tool, fast, robust and easy-to-use, is a good supplement to existing pathway-based analysis tools. However, the overall writing is very problematic and there are quite a few issues needing to be fixed. See the details listed as follows. First of all, the code for the tool is not available via Github. I carefully checked multiple times the Github repository: https://github.com/Modulated-Subgraph-Finder/MSF , however I can't find the ModulatedSubPathFinder.jar file, which is the Java implementation of the proposed tool, MSF. There are too many grammar issues and writing issues. Just mentioned a few, in the first paragraph of Introduction, "mechanism" in Line 6 should be plural, while "stimuli" in Line 14 should be "stimulus", "maybe" in Line 15 should be "may be". Careful proof-reading is strongly recommended. The authors have a few misconceptions. For example, they treated "effectors" and "sinks" equally. In my opinion, effectors include sources, intermediate genes and sinks, i.e., all genes responding to perturbations. The authors think of the significance of statistical tests in the form of p-values as a confidence level of observing an authentic expression change. This might not be correct. Besides small p-values, the magnitude of fold changes is also important metric of authentic expression change. By the way, the fold change of gene expression is always non-negative. The expression of "sign of fold change" is not meaningful. Only log-transformed fold change is signed. The flow of information/idea is not fluent in many places. For example, at the end of the first paragraph of Introduction, the authors mentioned the KEGG and Reactome Pathways. Then at the beginning of the second paragraph, they gave a detailed description of the two pathway databases, which might be unnecessary and disrupted the flow to set up the stage to introduce why their tool is necessary and useful. Some information about how their tool was implemented given in the last paragraph of Introduction should be moved to the Implementation section of Methods. Paragraph 3 under the section of “Case Study”, the DEGA results might better be described immediately after the second sentence of Paragraph 2. Similarly, some information in Conclusion should be move to the section of “Implementation”. The title for the section of "Initial modulated sub-graphs” should be “Initializing modulated sub-graphs “. Under this section, “starting with the most significant one” should be “starting with the next most significant one”. “… not yet in a significantly modulated …” should be “…not yet in the significantly modulated …”. Under the section of “Extending modulated sub-graphs”, it is not clear how the sub-graphs are extended by adding “MORE THAN ONE” gene at a time. If doing this way, there are infinite possibilities. The criterion to accept or reject added genes is not clear. Under the section of “Merging modulated sub-graphs”, the authors mentioned that “After detection and extension of the modulated sub-graphs, they are tested if combined subgraphs SCORE better than on their own.” At this point, no merging has been done yet, how are the combined subgraphs tested? What is the SCORE used here? How can a depth-first search traverse from the FIRST sub-graph to the SECOND sub-graph before they are merged (Aren’t the subgraphs not necessarily connected?)? Under the section of “Finding sources sinks”, “circular loops” should be just “loop”. Paragraph 2 Under “Case Study”, some details about edgeR-based DEGA are missing. How the directed cell signaling interactions ere filtered from the Reaction FIs? Based on what? The directions of edges in right panel of Figure 2 should be showed, because the MSF can generate directed subgraphs. In the last paragraph of the section of “Modulated sub-graphs at 6 hpi”, “This show cast example…” should be “This show case example…”. The Robustness test seemed to show that the MSF is not robust enough to extra noise. What is the authors’ conclusion and explanation? The authors compared the results from their tool to those from the Reactome pathway analysis tool and demonstrated better performance of their tool. Can they also compare the results from their tool to those from the GSEA tools, which don’t set arbitrary cutoff beforehand? The latter comparison might be more convincing. In Discussion, what are “intermediate bottlenecks”? In Conclusion, the authors claimed their tool is “fast, robust and easy-to-use”. However, they did provide evidence to show their tool is fast. The robustness of their tool is not apparent. Issues with figures: all legend titles are too long. In Figure 1, Texts in the flow chart symbols are not well-written. There are inconsistent case issues; “initial” should be “initializing”; symbol for condition test (“checked all interaction?”) should be diamond, not hexagon. Question marks might be added to condition test for readability. In the legend to Figure 1, what does “without exhaustively testing all connected subgraphs” mean? Does it the output from MSF analysis might not be comprehensive? Legends to Figure 3 and 4 are poorly written. Is the Toll-like receptor signaling one of the 149 shared pathways in Figure 4. It is not clearly described in the legend. Limitations of their tool: In their implementation, the fold changes and direction of changes are not taken into account. If a resulting subgraph contains both down-regulated genes and up-regulated genes, how should the users interpret it? The authors didn’t test the sensitivity and specificity of their tool in this manuscript. 