This study aimed to compare the effect and safety of upper pole and non-upper pole single puncture PCNL for treating staghorn stones through a meta-analysis. Five comparative studies were included in this meta-analysis, and the authors found that these two approaches have similar SFR and complication rate. This study is of interest, but I still have some major concerns about it. This study aimed to compare the upper pole and non-upper pole approaches, but the searching keywords only contained “lower pole” and “upper pole”, so how about the middle pole? In the Methods section, the authors did not describe how they extracted the data from eligible studies, and how did the authors deal with the missing data? The Cochrane Risk of Bias assessment tools are used to assess the quality of RCTs, but the included studies in this meta-analysis were not RCTs; in addition, the contents of Table 3 seemed to be the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale, but not Cochrane Risk of Bias assessment tools; please explain it. In the statistical analysis parts, the authors should define the details about the existence of heterogeneity, such as the I 2 50% and P 0.10. In the flow diagram of study selection, the detailed number of excluded studies should also be indicated with the specific reasons. In Table 2 of characteristics of studies, detailed study designs of included studies should be indicated, such as RCT, cohort or case-control studies, but not only the description of retrospective or prospective. Table 2 should describe the baseline characteristics of all eligible studies, such as the study population, study design, gender of patients, stone size, follow-up time, and so on; but not the list of study outcomes. This is because we should first make sure the baseline characteristics of each study were comparable, then we can pool the outcomes. In this study, only binary variables were pooled, and the continuous variables were compared using mean and SD. Actually, the continuous variables could also be pooled using RevMen. In Figure 2, the left side of the forest plot should be “Favours non-upper pole”, but not “Favours upper pole”. Is the definition of SFR the same in all included studies? And what’s the definition of SFR in this meta-analysis? What’s the time of SFR - one month or three months after operation? The authors only compared the SFR and complication rate in this meta-analysis, how about the operation time and hospital stay time? These factors could also impact the recovery of patients. The limitations of this meta-analysis should be pointed out in the Discussion section. 