 The authors describe their system for presenting audio-visual stimuli and making neural recordings, by combining two packages, 'Presentation' and 'Spike2'. It sounds like a very reasonable arrangement for their purposes. But they do not make a case that this system achieves anything special methodologically. People have been doing experiments similar to those they describe for many (20+) years with a variety of different systems. It seems that the advance here is that this system is easy to use/set up. This is very likely to be true provided users do substantially similar experiments. But that’s true for almost any system. How easy would it be to do something else? Without some way of demonstrating in some objective way what the range of the system is, it is impossible to say if there is real methodological contribution here. Smaller questions An important problem is how precisely video events are synchronized with the neurophysiology. The moment at which a display computer requests an image change and the moment at which the first pixels of the new image are actually displayed on their LCD are two different things, and may well not even have a fixed delay (depending on the details of both the display and the rendering). How is this achieved? What is the delay? How variable is it? These crucial parameters are not reported. What is the total loop delay from detecting some event in the A/D stream (eye movement, Spike) and the change in some output (electrical stimulus, image refresh with a new image)? If detecting these events depends upon the Spike2 control script, then delays can be quite long. Implementing them in the Sequencer is much harder. This loop delay potentially places fundamental limits on the range of applications that might be possible (whether gazed contingent displays are possible, or performing cancellation tests with antidromic stimulation). Since the paper objective is to describe a software/hardware system, the details about surgery and training, and most of the results, seem irrelevant. This space would be better used describing measures of the system performance. In principle one might do something similar combining other separate systems e.g. any other commercial electrophysiology system and psychophysics toolbox for the display. What are the merits of the different possibilities? Without comparing the available options, this description is of limited use. 