This is a succinct and generally well written paper reporting experimental data on ligand binding to Mt-trHbN and to two mutants (VG8F anndVG8W)).These latter have been designed to test hypotheses regarding the possible routes by which access is gained to the heme by small neutral gaseous molecules. The experiments and the molecular modelling that supports them, and which provides mechanistic insights, have been carefully performed. The results are of interest to the field as they add to the body of accumulated evidence that proteins, including those with the function of binding small neutral molecules, provide specific, and often dynamic, channels to permit rapid access to the binding site. Furthermore the kinetics of binding are seen to be strongly influenced by single amino acid substitution in the access channels. Although the results support the general conclusions drawn by the authors some clarification of a number of points would be helpful. These are given below. Why in Figs 2A and B does time appear not to start at t=0? In Fig and discussion is it proposed that the water molecule is bound to the iron (common for ferric but not for ferrous iron) or stabilised in that location only by hydrogen binding. It is presumed that for the modelling the iron is in the ferrous state as the authors are discussing CO binding. Although the authors discuss the decomposition of NO catalysed by Mt-trHbN in the presence of oxygen the assays do not make it clear that this is the reaction under study. No mention of the oxygen concentration is made in the legend to Fig 6. It seems oxygen is present to account for the disappearance of NO. From Fig 6 it is stated that NO binds to the protein but is not degraded (e.g. to nitrate via peroxynitrite). Is this because regeneration of the reduced heme (necessary for oxygen binding) is so slow or is it because as ferric heme is reduced by the NADPH/ferredoxin system NO binds before oxygen and thus no turnover occurs as it is known that the NO-ferrous complex does not react with oxygen? In any case it is not made clear to what chemical step the measured kinetics refer. It would improve the manuscript if the authors clarified these points. 