In this study, the authors assessed the inhibitory activities of ginger oil in comparison to ampicillin against Enterococcus faecalis , both against planktonic and biofilm cultures, with the clinical background of analyzing novel treatment ideas for root canal infections caused by E. faecalis . Ginger oil has been shown to exhibit antibacterial effects against E. faecalis in some in vitro studies, but its anti-biofilm activity has not been investigated yet. Although the authors came up with an in principle adequate experimental set-up, the main criticism concerns the fact that only one laboratory strain has been analyzed (ATCC 29212), but no clinical isolates recovered from root canal infections. Clinical isolates usually show a different behavior than laboratory strains concerning antimicrobial susceptibility patterns, making it absolutely necessary to include an adequate number of clinical isolates when drawing conclusion for therapeutic treatments of infections. Further, it remains questionable whether the analyzed concentrations of ginger oil apply as therapeutic dosages. The lowest concentration (range 40 mg/L to 5000 mg/L) analyzed for both ginger oil and ampicillin, the reference substance in this study, is still 40 times higher than the MIC of ampicillin of 1 mg/L for E. faecalis ATCC 29212 1 . Unfortunately, the conclusion drawn from the presented results is in our opinion over-interpreted (mainly due to n=1) and not conclusive from the data presented. As the authors state in the result part, the biofilm inhibitory activity of ginger oil was not strong enough to make it a significant result (quote “activity failed to achieve an acceptable level of inhibition of more than 50%”), contradicting very much the conclusion of the discussion part (quote “Although the activity was not as potent as the effect on suspension culture, ginger oil still produced acceptable inhibitory activities against the pathogen in vitro ”). Ampicillin, a common antibiotic for oral infections and the reference substance, showed stronger effects than ginger oil at all concentrations tested in both of the planktonic and biofilm experiments! Regarding the language, only the sentences in which the meaning was not clear were marked and suggestions for improvement were made. Typos, wrong choices of words and sentence constructions were neglected. Introduction: approved Methods: approved with reservations/not approved due to n=1 Results: approved Discussion: not approved Major comments: Methods: Please include at least three root canal E. faecalis isolates in your study. Further, please state some data/references about therapeutic doses of ginger oil to better understand the suitability of the tested concentrations for therapeutic treatment. Method anti-biofilm assay: We are struggling with your method of choice (OD measurement) for the establishment of the biofilm growth. Firstly, a measurement of the OD value rather assesses the planktonic but not the biofilm state of the bacteria and further does not discriminate between viable and dead cells. We recommend performing a CFU determination of the detached biofilms at day 1, 2, 3 and 4 of biofilm growth 2 to determine the viable cell number. This will tell you how the OD measurement correlates with cell numbers. Also, you might want to consider changing the medium every 24hr to enhance biofilm formation. Secondly, we do not understand why you have chosen a 3-day old biofilm for your subsequent anti-biofilm assay as the highest OD value is observed on day 1 (see Figure 2). Please explain your choice. For the anti-biofilm assay, please also verify for at least one strain that lower OD values (compared to the control) correlate with lower cell numbers and therefore stronger inhibitory effects of ginger oil. Results Bactericidal effects (MBC): If you plated the samples on agar plates to determine the MBC as described in the method section, it would be interesting to see the CFU numbers to see the correlation between OD values and viable bacteria (see above)! Discussion: Disruption is the wrong word because you were analyzing biofilm growth inhibitory, but not biofilm eradicative effects! Also, “we found that ginger oil has lower but comparable antibacterial efficacy compared to ampicillin” is a very contradicting statement and in terms of your results wrong. Ampicillin showed stronger effects than ginger oil at all concentrations tested in both of the planktonic and biofilm experiments! Conclusion: Why do you state 0.04 mg/mL as the MIC of ginger oil for ATCC 29212? At this concentration, only approximately 5% growth inhibition was observed (Fig. 3). Minor comments: Abstract Methods: You state that E. faecalis was grown in anaerobic conditions but this is not described in the method part of the main paper. For MIC testing according to CLSI guidelines, enterococci are grown aerobically (so at 37C and 5 % CO 2 as you stated correctly in the method section). Abstract methods: Please consider revision of the sentence: “Among the antibacterial tests performed were the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentrations using microdilution assays, and anti-biofilm assay on 3-day old pre-form monospecies biofilm on a 94 well-plate.” E.g. “Among the antibacterial tests performed were the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) microdilution assay as well as an anti-biofilm assay on 3-day old pre-formed biofilms on 96 well-plates.” Further, it would be helpful for the reader to clarify which parameter was assessed in your anti-biofilm assay. If I understood your experiments correctly, you assessed the so-called minimum biofilm inhibitory concentration (MBIC 3 ) in contrast to biofilm eradicative effects (aka MBEC). Abstract results: Please consider revision of the sentence. “It was also found that the ginger oil inhibitory activity against E. faecalis was comparably less in anti-biofilm activity than against bacteria cultured in suspension solution .” E.g. “It was also found that the inhibitory activity of ginger oil was lower in biofilm cultures compared to planktonic cultures of E. faecalis .” Introduction: Your introduction is precise and on point. Maybe you could add 1-2 sentences about the definition/meaning and clinical problem of biofilm formation. Introduction: First paragraph, last sentence: “Inevitably, repeated use of calcium hydroxide and sodium hypochlorite as the two most commonly used root canal medicaments and irrigation solution, respectively, has been said to allow E. faecalis to adapt to the sub-lethal environment". Please re-write this sentence as I do not get the meaning. Do you mean E. faecalis is tolerant to sodium hypochloride and calcium hydroxide treatment? Also, please change “Within the past decade, research has begun to explore some beneficial antibacterial activities of herbal medicine against oral pathogens.” Methods: Please state the source of the ginger root as the quality and therefore the reproducibility of the experiments might vary depending on the growth conditions. Method, part culture and maintenance of bacteria: The last sentence (DMSO was used as solvent for ginger oil…) is redundant and does not fit in this paragraph. Method, part broth microdilution assay: This sentence is rather confusing because the two sections you describe are not visible in Figure 1. Please clarify your pipetting scheme. Results: Please make the captions below the figures more informative by including more details about how the results presented in the figure were created (e.g. Figure 2: which strain is shown, how were the biofilms grown,…). 