This article focuses on identifying the presence of a miRNA loci (MIR828) within several cultivars of pineapple. The author leverages prior sequencing data from two studies to annotate a very lowly expressed locus which is apparently MIR828, marking the first example of this miRNA family in Poales. Despite the low expression, the author supports the presence of the miRNA through identification of targeted mRNAs, shown through detection of secondary siRNAs resulting from cleavage by a 22-nt miRNA. They also provide some evidence to speculate about the role miR828 may play in pineapple coloration relative to development. My background is in small RNA annotation and interpretation of function in plants. I believe that this article does a good job identifying a miRNA that is challenging to find in pineapple. I also think that the author does a compelling job proving its actual function through secondary siRNAs. False negatives are always present in the computational annotation of genomes and this type of careful analysis is often needed to find exceptions that are not caught by programs using default settings. I believe the conclusions of this article are true and the results to be adequate, pending some revision. My criticisms of this article mainly have to do with clarity. I think that several changes must be made to make the article more transparent in the analyses performed, the language used to describe it, and the presentation of data. I do not suggest any additional experiments to support their result, but I would like a response and modification to the manuscript based on the following notes: “Analysis of Chen et al’s A. comosus MD-2 cultivar leaf small RNA (sRNA) libraries and stranded RNA-seq libraries from flowers and fruits of F153 and CB5 genotypes establish the existence of aco-miR828 (Extended data: Figure S1) and pri-MIR828 expressions, with the novel observation that pri-MIR828 is properly transcribed in leaves, flowers and fruits yet ~50% of mature miR828 species abundance (0.3 reads per million in leaves; Extended data: Table S1) are 21 nt, while 93% of the equally abundant 22 nt species appear to have undergone non-templated 3’ uridylation of the 21 nt species (Extended data: Table S1).” --- This sentence does not clearly describe what “analysis” has taken place. I need to see the author describe what evidence supports the 3 conclusions listed here, both in writing and with a description of the analysis pipeline in the methods section (see below). It is preferred to include a genome-browser shot showing the read coverage for the pri-miRNA regions listed in supp figure 1, as it can be difficult to identify from a table what the locus actually looks like for the reader. It also appears that many of the rna-seq reads originate from the ‘minus’ strand. This is surprising, as the hairpin is never double stranded. Could you explain this discrepancy? I like that the ShortStack output is included in supp. table 1. However, it is not clear to me what each locus refers to. What is the reference genome for each of these? It appears that cluster_1381 and cluster_1104 are using the Chen et al. sequencing data on the older reference genome. Why have these been shown and can you explain the lack of this locus in the older genome? I’m not sure what these loci are referring to compared to the first locus shown (cluster_4352). Your RPMs for this miRNA locus are extremely low (0.3 RPM), more than 10 fold lower than ShortStacks default locus identification threshold (5 RPM). This is a real lack and makes it challenging to identify this as a miRNA. Lacking a mir-star is also a problem, but might not be surprising for a low-expression locus. As this is a published miRNA you are identifying, I am inclined to agree that it is real. However, it is inappropriate to include an artificial sequence to make ShortStack call it as such, as is done in Supp. Figure 1. Please correct this and clearly identify that this locus lacks mir-star support, though is still likely a miRNA. Consider looking into the package strucVis , an add-on for RNAfold which shows nucleotide-resolution read depth on the folded diagram. I think this would greatly clarify this figure. “Analysis of independent bracteatus cultivar leaf sRNA libraries (NCBI SRA SRR5677552-7; 113.2 million reads) of unknown provenance relative to the subject CB5 genotype failed to identify any MIR828 reads.” --- This is surprising! Did you also try analysis using the F153 reference, considering the provenance of this variety is unknown? I think this is important considering the considerable depth of these libraries, where we might expect around 30 reads coming from this locus. Despite the lack of a locus identified, it might be useful to look directly at the alignment through a browser, to see if any small RNAs are coming from this locus. “...mature miR828 species abundance (0.3 reads per million in leaves; Extended data: Table S1)...” --- Please show the approximate read depth here also, as was shown with the Xiong et al libraries. Figure 1 is labeled as a degradome, when it is actually a plot of 5’ ends of sRNA alignments, thought to be secondary siRNAs. While I agree that secondary siRNAs can be strong evidence of targeting. However, this is entirely distinct from a degradome, which are derived from isolated mRNA degradation products. Please remove references of this as a degradome and correct the language to clearly describe this. This also should contain a citation for one of the following papers: where this evidence was used for confirming targeting (Shahid et al. 2018 1 ), or evidence of secondary sRNAs as a product of miRNA targeting (Allen et al. 2005 2 ). Figure 2 has several critical problems. In general, I think the author must provide more detail in the conclusions and evidence shown in each section of the figure. I have detailed some more specific points as follows: It is deceiving to use bar plots to represent such small numbers of data points. Bars that represent an N of ideally 5 or less are much more informative shown as points representing the actual data. To show error bars (I assume... it is not indicated if these are standard error or deviation) greatly misrepresents the variance of these data. I would like to see these figures redone showing points rather than bars, or at least showing the raw data in a supplementary table (see below). Figure 2B is vague in its description of the test, and replicates involved. The legend describes an N=1 for all stages. If this is true, how can a statistical comparison be made? Stage 1 shows error bars, does this represent N1? Additionally, precisely which samples are being grouped and compared here for the test? This must be made clearer. The interpretation of results in Figure 2C is unclear. There is little to no textual description of what the author concludes from Figure 2 in general and it is mainly confined to one sentence where all three sub-figures are mentioned. This needs to be greatly expanded upon for me to understand what they perceive as the outcome of these analyses. I recommend including *all* of the raw data shown in these charts in supplementary tables in addition to a more clear demonstration of the data-points mentioned above. This allows the reader to clearly identify what is being shown in each. A description of methods is lacking. Though the sequencing data is derived from prior publications, the analysis performed in this paper is new. You need to describe the logical steps taken for each analysis, including processing, tools used in a step, the actual commands used, and data that is output. This would go a long way to clarifying the actual analyses they performed. This needs to be shown for RNA-seq analyses, sRNA-seq analyses, and identification of pri-miRNAs. 