This is a nicely written paper proposing a new and refreshing hypothesis that gonorrhoea screening in a larger proportion of a certain population and subsequent treatment could induce AMR. Although the authors admit that they cannot confirm their hypothesis, they do claim to see an association in support of their claim. There is a multitude of other explanations for the association found which aren't properly discussed and more sound evidence is needed to confirm their statement. It is of interest though to report on their findings. I have some comments to consider though. In the method section it is stated that MSM were compared with women rather than heterosexual men to avoid the problem of misclassification of men who occasionally have sex with men but regard themselves as heterosexual. In the same fashion it is possible that heterosexual women might have sex with bisexual males and thus be exposed to the MSM pharmacoecology described here. Please consider the effect of this option in the light of choosing the control group. The MIC right shift for all 3 antibiotics has decreased from 2010/11 to 2014 in the UK this is attributed to higher dosages of cephalosporins given and the addition of azi to the recommended therapy. This finding can be interpreted as an argument against the hypothesis of the authors; correct treatment of a confirmed infection does not lead to the induction of AMR since the strain is eradicated and cannot develop AMR. It is stated also that ceftriaxone's longer half-life than cefixime may have played a role in preventing MIC drift in Belgium. This is counter intuitive. A longer antimicrobial half life is associated with the induction of AMR due to the prolonged exposure of bacteria to sub therapeutic concentrations of antibiotic during re-exposure. See also: Decreased Azithromycin Susceptibility of Neisseria gonorrhoeae Isolates in Patients Recently Treated with Azithromycin. Wind CM, de Vries E, Schim van der Loeff MF, van Rooijen MS, van Dam AP, Demczuk WHB, Martin I, de Vries HJC. Clin Infect Dis. 2017 Jul 1;65(1):37-45. [Ref-1] In the second paragraph of the discussion it isn't mentioned that: “This explanation stems from the insight that the intensity of exposure to antimicrobials plays a crucial role in the genesis of AMR [ref 21]. Here, the reference is misquoted, Cantas et al specifically address the non-therapeutic and low-level dosage use of antimicrobials that lead to AMR induction. This is not the case in the UK setting where MSM are treated with therapeutic dosages, and only after infection has been confirmed. 