This paper investigates genome architecture differences at the HTT locus. There are several major issues with this study. The small sample size is the biggest issue. In my opinion it is too small to draw any conclusions. How a disease progression marker can be deducted from 3 presymptomatic samples (early disease state?) and 3 symptomatic samples is not clear. If the differences in chromosomal structure are indeed different around the HTT locus, what would be the functional consequence, and then this should be validated. Upon treatment, would this chromosomal then reverse? So far there is no evidence from brain tissue and fibroblast cells that there is a major difference in transcription from the wild type and mutant allele. “Although historically considered a monogenic disease, extensive research into the underlying pathology of HD suggests that the mechanisms leading to disease onset and progression are more complex than originally thought”. This is not a correct statement. It is a genetic disease; no polyQ expansion, no HD. But there are genetic modifiers that can influence onset and maybe progression. “HD is considered a paradigm of a disease characterized by epigenetic dysregulation”. This statement is not correct. HD is characterised by dysregulation in many cellular processes, and epigenetic deregulation is only one of them. The number of samples is really too small. I have worked with human tissue for many years, and in my opinion these group sizes are too small. There are only 3 presymptomatic patients and 7 symptomatic. Furthermore, a CAG repeat range of 40-48 is not enough to say something about progression or severity. There is no appropriately age-matched control group for the presymptomatic HD group (Figure 1D). “Peak-called ChIP-seq data for H3K4me3 from 12 (6 HD and 6 control samples) post-mortem prefontal cortex brain samples (bed format) was obtained (GSE68952)34. In addition, Bigwig tracks of ChIP-seq data for H3K27ac and H3K36me3 from HD iPSC-derived neural cell lines and control cell lines". So all the histone modification data that was used to identify zones of interest and to identify high probability folding interactions was based on data from neuronal cells/tissue. Is there anything known about how these histone modifications in brain relate to histone modifications in blood cells? I think this is a very important issue and potential pitfall of this paper. For practical reasons, 20 interactions were selected from the identified 61 high probability chromatin interactions. Was this selection done randomly, for technical reasons, or were there any selection criteria? Please add this to the Methods section. Figure 2A is obsolete because the same samples are all used for Figure 2B. This figure can be removed from the paper. It is not very informative. All the relevant information is already in the table. Figure 3 illustrates that there are not enough samples in this study. The group size is much too small to include figures like this. Nothing is significant and the variability is large. Figure 4: The constitutive interactions in A is much weaker in the HD-Symp, group and in 4B much weaker in the HC group. How constitutive are these interactions? This Figure shows a summary. When I look at the individual data. Figure 8, the variability in the samples again is too large. What were the results for the individual presymp-HD? Figure 8 and 9: If I look at I6 for all the symp-HD samples, it was present in 3 and absent in 4, so in the majority it is absent. However in Figure 9 it is shown that interaction 6 is present in HD-symp. Since there is such a variation in absence and presence of interactions within the individual HD samples, there should also be a figure in the paper regarding the absence and presence of the interactions in the individual control samples. Also for the constitutive interactions. 