This is the first reported outbreak of HFMD from Bangladesh. This article will add some valuable information about distribution and burden of HFMD. Following observations has been made regarding this manuscript: In abstract (background): “We report a localized outbreak of childhood HFMD for the first time from Bangladesh, diagnosed only based on clinical features due to gross lack in laboratory-diagnostic facilities.” The word “gross” should be removed from this sentence. In abstract (results): please clarify and rewrite this sentence “Age did not differ with sex (P=0.98) In Introduction “Severe cases occur red with a low incidence (3.2% to 8.5%) and fatalities are rare”, the word “red” should be replaced by “rarely” In results (demographic information), the sentence “Notably, children from mid-income-HHs contracted significantly more HFMD which was more among the first siblings (P0.01)” should be rewritten as “HFMD cases were significantly more common among children from mid-income households and in the first siblings (p 0.001) In results (assessment of symptoms) in the sentence “Similarly, papulo-vascular rashes weremore common in fall…” papulovascular should be replaced with papulo-vesicular. The sentence should be replaced by “The three major sign/symptoms of HFMD were more prevalent on days where 0.0 mm precipitation was recorded.” In the same section “Time to recover from HFMD varies with age of the patient”. In the sentence “More young children (5 years) recovered in 5 days (63/74, 85%) than older peers (≥5 years) (47/69, 69%) who were more likely to recover in 5 days) (P0.05). In results (Clinico-epidemiological perspectives) section, the sentence “However, we neither observed such high incidences of sever disease alike from Vietnam (8.5%) nor recorded any fatal case in like others reporting as ‘none’ or ‘rare’ looks out of context and should be removed altogether or moved to complications section. If moved to the complications section, this sentence should also be rewritten as “In our series, we neither observed high incidence of severe disease, nor recorded any fatality.” Then comparison with data from other countries may be done. While discussing severe disease and death, citation from Xing et al should be included, as his group published the largest epidemiologic study to date and showed the rate of severe disease and death in patients affected by HFMD (Xing W., Liao Q., Viboud C. Hand, foot, and mouth disease in China, 2008-12: an epidemiological study 1 ) In results (Clinico-epidemiological perspectives) section, the sentence “Moderate-to-high fever, painful oral ulcer and itchy-painful rash were directly proportional to younger children which remain consistent with other findings” should be rewritten as “Moderate-to-high fever, painful oral ulcer and itchy, painful rash were more common in younger children; this finding is consistent with other studies”. In results (Clinico-epidemiological perspectives) section, the sentence “This observation led us to postulate variation in body temperature led us to postulate that fever itself should not be considered as the sole symptom to confirm HFMD, rather this remain consistent with Van Pham et al. 8 though others reported high fever in HFMD-cases5,9.” is redundant and should be removed altogether. This is unnecessary repetition of a statement made in the same para (Moderate-to-high fever remains an important, but not mandatory or principal sign of HFMD). In results (Clinico-epidemiological perspectives) section, citation is needed for the sentence “Literature reveals papulo-vesicular rash as the most important characteristic symptoms for HFMD often manifesting as painful chicken-pox-like rashes in 60% cases (Figure 3) though the rest 40% had it less painful or painless.” In results (Clinico-epidemiological perspectives) section, the sentence “Since pain remains subjective in younger children in expressing pain intensity, we categorized HFMD cases based on having no history of recent pain issues, facial expression of child on slight touch on rash/oral ulcer including mother’s impression plus clinician’s rational judgement.” is redundant and should be removed altogether. Pain assessment/scoring tool has been described in detail in the Methods section. In results (Clinico-epidemiological perspectives) section, the sentence “However, the exact reason in 22% less pain or painless oral ulcers/blisters remain unclear.” should be rewritten as “However, the exact reason of less pain/painless oral ulcers/blisters in 22% cases in our study remain unclear.” In Laboratory Diagnosis for HFMD, the sentences “Laboratory diagnosis is usually not essential12,23 to confirm a readily diagnosed HFMD case based on rational judgement of existing clinical features. Even, lab diagnosis often remains unnecessary19” should be rewritten as “Laboratory diagnosis often remain unnecessary to make a diagnosis of HFMD. Use of WHO clinical case definition and exclusion of differential diagnosis is adequate in most cases.” Reference number 12 may be omitted as authors of that article used RT PCR for virus isolation in 7 cases. The para “Furthermore, raised blood glucose level may be due to other viral diseases rather than HFMD, and may confound by other infections and/or inflammatory processes. Moreover, drawing intravenous blood from younger children possessing thin veins may be extremely difficult if not possible particularly in primary care health centers in grass-root level. Children often exhibits agitation when attempts are made to draw blood showing grossly non-compliance and non-cooperative” is redundant and should be removed. In complications, the sentence “Our finding yielded three cases (2.09%) complications of mild-to-moderate severity who we had to pay particular attention to” should be rewritten as “In our study, three cases (2.09%) developed complications of mild to moderate severity requiring special care”. 