The authors have presented an interesting and careful study on drug promiscuity as analyzed through available activity databases. The authors also illustrate the different conclusions that can be drawn based on the quality of the data analyzed. The discrepancies they point out highlight the importance of high-quality data when evaluating the promiscuity of drugs. The manuscript is clear and well-written, the methods are scientifically sound, and the analysis is thorough and clearly presented. Comments: Compounds with multiple K i or IC 50 measurements for the same target were retained if all these values fell within the same order." Should this read the same order of magnitude.? Surprisingly, for 282 drugs (~54%), no increase in promiscuity was detected on the basis of high-confidence activity records. It would increase the impact of this article if the authors explained why this finding is surprising. For example, do these compounds represent drugs that were highly optimized for a single target? There were only 14 drugs with an increase in promiscuity rates by 10 or more targets. As above, the authors might want to add their thoughts as to why these drugs have such high promiscuity rates. For example, are they kinase inhibitors which had known broad kinase panel activity and the complete scope of their kinase activity is only now coming to light? Suggestions for minor modifications: The dataset has been made publicly available through a DOI link. The link was broken when I attempted to follow it and look at the data. This link should be fixed. The authors have not provided any summary of the criteria used to determine what constitutes activity of a compound at a target (e.g. 10 M cut-off? 100 M?). If a strict cut-off cannot be given for each dataset, it is suggested that authors reported the range of activities reported in each dataset (one for the high-confidence data set, and one for each of the two low-confidence data sets). The authors mention that all the compounds were converted into SMILES strings during data analysis. It is suggested that the authors screen the SMILES list against a REOS/PAINS/etc. filters. It would be interesting to see if any of the high promiscuity compounds could be flagged as having substructures that could be responsible for non-specific activity. Or would have impeded the development of these drugs had they been prepared after cheminformatic filtering came into vogue. These suggested modifications would help increase the impact of this manuscript and could be of great interest to the drug discovery community.