In this paper, Sharvit, Vuilleumier and Corradi-Dell’Acqua draw on evidence from two recent studies (Sharvit et al. (2018 1 ) and Fazeli and Bchel (2018 2 )) to suggest that the middle-anterior part of the insula cortex encodes sensory-specific expectancy effects of pain while the posterior insula process nociceptive inputs. Both investigations employ within-subjects designs to examine whether the brain shows sensory-specific expectancy effects. Cues predict the intensity or unpleasantness of pain or a different modality (olfactory or aversive images), and cues about one modality are occasionally followed by the other outcome. The authors of each paper make conclusions about cross-modal versus sensory-specific effects, which are summarized in the current review with a focus on effects within the insula. The paper is well-written and covers important issues regarding whether the insula processes expectation of general unpleasantness or pain-specific expectation. This question is timely and relevant for a large body of work asking whether brain responses are specific to pain or whether responses in regions like the insula reflect domain-general processes, such as salience or unpleasantness (Legrain et al. (2011 3 ). The review is a useful addition to the literature on pain and sensory specificity. However, certain issues that should be addressed in this review to benefit future investigations on the question of expectancy effects and modality specificity. In our opinion, the authors need to be more cautious in making conclusions regarding sensory specificity since neither study included comprehensive tests for specificity. First, they did not evaluate potentially confounding factors between pain and non-pain stimuli such as stimulus-related salience, arousal, uncertainty (the degree of learned association between cue and outcome), and threat/aversiveness. For example, a modality-specific expectancy effect in the anterior insula might be influenced by the lower level of uncertainty in the congruent conditions compared to incongruent conditions. The insula is also a core region of the salience network and affected by the salience of the stimulus (Menon and Uddin (2010 4 )) as well as threat value (Wiech et al. (2010 5 )) which might differ between pain and the other modality (i.e. pain has the potential to cause harm, whereas odors do not). Since these factors were not measured or controlled in either study, it should be noted that those factors might contribute to the effect of expectancy in the insula as well. Second, Fazeli and Bchel (2018 2 ) did not evaluate sensory-specific or sensory-general processing of expectancy in response to visual stimuli paired with either pain or visual cues. If the effect of expectancy on insula activity is truly sensory-specific and does not affect the expectancy effect on a stimulus of another modality, the same phenomenon should be found in the non-pain modality. Finally, Sharvit et al. (2018 1 ) trained with outcome-specific cues during conditioning, and tested responses to crossed cues only in the test phase. This may have led to differences in the cross-modal cue pairs, only because those were novel in the test phase, which is also related to the issue of uncertainty mentioned above. Finally, we think the authors should also consider that within-subjects tests of sensory specificity may lead to very different conclusions from between-subjects designs, wherein subjects would be randomly assigned to experience a single outcome modality and modalities would vary across groups. When individuals experience multiple outcomes, this engenders both value-based learning (expectations about intensity/unpleasantness) and sensory learning (expectations about outcome identity). Some regions respond similarly to both types of learning (e.g. dopaminergic neurons involved in value-based prediction error respond when outcome identity changes and value is held constant (Takahashi et al. (2017 6 ) and Chang et al. (2017 7 )), whereas other brain regions respond to value irrespective of outcome identity (OFC; Padoa-Schioppa et al. (2008 8 )) or sensory outcome irrespective of value (lateral OFC; Boorman et al. (2016 9 )). In the two papers reviewed here, cues denote both outcome type (i.e. pain vs. odor/image) and outcome value (i.e. unpleasantness/intensity), which requires both types of learning. While this is theoretically interesting, the question Sharvit and co-authors focus on here is whether value-based learning (i.e. expectancy-based modulation) is sensory specific . A purer test of this question would be to use a between-subjects design to compare value-based processing across modalities, i.e. whether brain responses are similar when pain is preceded by pain expectancy cues and when olfactory/visual outcomes are paired with expectancy cues in those domains. When both forms of learning are combined, differences might emerge that reflect sensory learning, rather than purely testing whether value-learning is sensory-specific. The authors should acknowledge this alternative in the present review. In addition to the two conceptual issues above, we have several minor suggestions: Several terms should be defined or explained more precisely (either in a box or early in the manuscript). This includes: “sensory specificity”; the distinction between ‘unpleasant events’, ‘negative experiences’, and ‘threat’; and the relationship between Sharvit’s manipulation of ‘unpleasantness’ (Sharvit et al. (2018 1 )) and Fazeli’s manipulation of ‘intensity’ (Fazeli and Bchel (2018 2 )). The manuscript would benefit from more description of the two original study paradigms and how they differ (e.g. conditioning, instructions, test phases). The review focuses on findings in the insula, yet both papers also found important effects outside of this region (Sharvit et al. (2018 1 ) found interesting and similar cue predictive effects in vmPFC and TPJ, and Fazeli and B chel (Fazeli and Bchel (2018 2 )) showed intensity and expectancy effects in ACC in addition to the insula). Since insula has a strong relationship (functional and anatomical) with those regions in pain processing and modulation, the authors should acknowledge that other regions show similar effects and also discuss differences. 