This article is much improved. The literature review is far more comprehensive and the Methods section has also been expanded. The reader is now able to appreciate and evaluate the research more thoroughly and objectively. The primary remaining weaknesses still lie in some of the descriptions of the methods used. Of most concern is the assessment of parent fidelity. The authors have now disclosed that “The SLP assesses parent fidelity in carrying out the activities/routines that had been agreed upon in the previous session, by asking the parents how frequently they engaged in the activities/ routines during the preceding week.” (p. 5; italics added). However, assessment of the quality of the parent treatment does not appear to be measured. It is possible that this is done through the review of the “..up to three home videos up to 2 minutes in length” that the parents submit (weekly?). However, the content of these videos is not currently described in the article. It is also important to know how many videos, of what lengths, were actually received for the participants described in this report and what they revealed about these specific parents’ fidelity to the content/quality of the treatment protocol. Another aspect of the methods that should be clarified relates to the MBL and SSL calculations. The authors report that 15% of the infants’ “scores” were “double-scored” by other team members (p. 7) with differences over 10% resolved by consensus (if needed). However, it’s not clear what this means. Were the transcripts re-transcribed, recoded for MBL and SSL, and the scores (means) then recalculated? Or was the “double-scoring” only recoding of each vocalization with respect to MBL or SSL and then recalculating the means of each? If only the calculation of the means was redone (no re-transcribing or recoding), that is not sufficient. At least the MBL and SSL coding should be redone for reliability’s sake. The MBL and SSL comparisons to TD children should also be explained in more detail. For example, how many TD children were in the comparison samples? What were the characteristics of those children? In addition, the MBL and SSL scores for the participants in this study were based on “multiple 5-minute audio segments with the highest occurrence of child utterances ” (p. 6; italics added). Was this selection process of segments with many utterances also used in the TD comparison samples? If not, this difference could at least partially account for the apparently superior performance of some of the children with CG in comparison to the TD samples. In addition, it is stated earlier on the same page that “a set of at least 50 utterances is compiled” for each participant. Do the authors really mean 50 utterances or do they mean 50 vocalizations? It would be helpful to specify how many minutes were required for each of the participants reported in this study to amass 50 utterances and how many vocalizations they produced per utterance. We find it mysterious that [d] could be shaped from a raspberry (page 5, column 1, 2 nd paragraph in Materials and Procedures, last sentence). Please correct or clarify. The figures are much easier to interpret now, but we wonder if boxplots (comparing treated CG participants vs. control participant vs. TDs) might be more revelatory (either instead of the current figures or as well as the current figures), since they would show the distributions of scores better. Other questions also remain to be answered. For example, it would be helpful if the review of the literature included information about the ages at which deficits in speech, language, fine motor, and gross motor skills typically appear in children with CG. Are the children in this study younger than the ages of emergence of those deficits or are the problems typically identified very early on? We have reviewed the article in detail and have quite a few specific suggestions for improving the writing style and clarity. These are listed below. Many of these relate to long, wordy, complex sentences that would be much more reader-friendly if they were shortened, re-organized, or broken into multiple sentences. Only the most egregious cases are listed here; the authors are encouraged to read through the ms. to identify other sentences that could be clarified in these ways. Only the first several words of the sentence are provided in the list below to indicate sentences that should be simplified. Pg. 3, Column 1, paragraph 1, line 9 – run-on sentence: “There is strong evidence that …”. Pg. 3, column 2, 1 st full paragraph, 13 lines up from bottom: “… no study included children younger than 12 months or targeted prelinguistic skills.” This should read, “younger than 12 months and targeted prelinguistic skills.” There have certainly been studies, particularly in ASD, that have addressed prelinguistic skills beyond 12 months of age. Pg. 3, column 2, 1 st full paragraph, 8 lines up from end of paragraph – long sentence: “Going even further back in the developmental trajectory, …”. Pg. 3, column 2, last paragraph, 8 lines up: long sentence - “Despite rigorous dietary management…”. Pg. 3-4, last sentence on p. 3 going over to p. 4: long sentence - “Speech disorders were reported…”. Pg. 4, column 1, line 9: State clearly what is the current “conventional management”? Pg. 4, column 1, 1 st full paragraph, 1 st sentence: Replace “children” with “infants.” (“…designed for children…”). Same for other references of participants as “children” throughout the ms. Pg. 4, column 1, 1 st full paragraph, last sentence: Insert “other”: “…then progresses through all other prelinguistic and…” (because eye contact and pre-babble vocalizations are also prelinguistic stages). Pg. 4, Last paragraph, 4 lines up: Awkwardly worded - “In all five families…”. Pg. 5, 1 st sentence of Materials and Procedures: Insert the word “intervention”, or something like that, after “with expertise in early childhood ______.” Pg. 5, Materials and procedures paragraph 2, 14 lines up: long sentence - “Note that there is considerable…”. Pg. 5, column 1, last paragraph, 1 st sentence: long sentence - “Because in young infants…”. Pg. 6, column 1, 1 st full paragraph, sentence 1: Move “Specifically”: “To assess speech sound development and language growth specifically, we use…” Pg. 6, column 1, 1 st full paragraph, 15 lines down: long sentence - “A score of 1 is…” Pg. 9, column 2, line 4: Awkwardly worded - “Our fully powered clinical trial, recently…” Also, insert “more”: “…is likely to provide more conclusive evidence…” Pg. 9, column 2, 2 nd paragraph of Discussion, line 1: Change “speech sound production” to “vocal production” since this includes pre-babble? 