I consider the publication of Awori RM, Ng'ang'a PN, Nyongesa LN and Amugune NO, entitled as “ Mursamacin: a novel class of antibiotics from soil-dwelling roundworms of Central Kenya that inhibits methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ” is as follows as a well conducted research. I have read this submission. I believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. I accept it but some little missing information should be added to get my approval (see details). The subject of paper is extremely important, since the “super bugs”, that is the dramatically increasing numbers of multiresistant pathogens is a real danger for mankind and pose new challenge to the antibiotics researcher, and the research concept outline in this publication is excellent. As for the title: it is appropriate for the content of the article. The abstract represents a suitable summary of the work. As for the article content: the design, methods and analysis of the results from the study has been properly explained and they are appropriate for the topic being studied. The information for the conclusions: the conclusions are sensible, well-balanced and justified on the basis of the results of the study. Enough information has been provided to be able to replicate the experiment. The data are presented in a usable format and all the data we need to understand has been provided. Some detail: The paper reports the discovery of a new, heat stable antimicrobial (probably peptide) complex effective against the “superbug” MRSA in both in vitro tests and in larger scale. It is a very important discovery, even if we are still rather far to get a commercial product. The conception and the applied methods are suitable, and the discovery and proper molecular identification of the antibiotic producing Xenorhabdus griffiniae from Kenya is very fortunate and great. I think that the quality of the research and the article is scientifically sound. I have only one important question: Table 1: The reader need the definition how the “Standardized MIC" values were calculated from the “Average MICs”. It seems to be a result of a statistical calculation, but I cannot be seen the source as mentioned. I have two remarks concerning the content: Fig 4 and the related text in “Methods” and “Results and discussions” chapters: Some details related to “high performance liquid chromatographic analysis” is badly missing, such as the specific name of the method, the data of column, the eluting media, and at least an approximated molecular size of the two active fraction 1,862 and 2775. If my question got an answer and my remark were taken into consideration, I would give my full Approval.