I enjoyed reading this and approve it. This is a very useful article for many instructors, particularly those who remain sceptical of the value that can be added from digital tools, and those who are interested in adopting them but unsure of how to introduce them and use them effectively. The timeline presented is interesting as it shows that, as the title suggests, big changes can take place through a series of small steps; this should be reassuring to those who hope to update their approach to teaching. The article provides a narrative account of ten years of innovation in a large course, with explanations of what was tried, its success or not, and whether it has been continued as part of the course. I particularly appreciate the indications that tools and approaches must change as technologies and students’ experiences change – instructors must keep adopting and adapting. A few key points: Facebook, unlike many institutional LMSs, is optimized for mobile devices and user-friendly – even those most sceptical of social network sites should recognize that their design and technology is superior. I appreciate that the question of “What about students/ instructors who for some reason refuse to use Facebook?” is addressed. By providing the same announcements via LMS, the students who chose to exclude themselves from the Facebook discussions are not disserviced, other than by their own choosing. I feel that it is essential for students to develop their professional skills in a structured environment, and incorporating group work on tablet PCs and whiteboards is an excellent approach. I particularly agree with this statements, “ Where students are given an open-ended group task, they use the technology available to them in a variety of ways that suit their learning style and expertise……Each student brings with them knowledge of different tools, so that together their power to create and innovate is far greater than them working alone .” This is exactly the type of student-centered, problem-based learning that needs to be supported and that digital tools can support. I’m curious, what is the topic / question they are addressing in the mindmap? I also appreciate the distinction that is made between blogs and the reflective essays written for the instructor that are a common component of a course. It is easy to believe that the quality of the thought and presentation would be enhanced through the more open platform. I look forward to sharing this article, as it demystifies the uses and benefits of the digital tools that ought to be a part of every instructional environment.