Zoonotic transmission of Ebola virus (EBOV) to humans causes a severe haemorrhagic fever in affected humans. Neither vaccines nor therapeutics are available at present. To devise antiviral strategies, it is important to understand the pathogenicity and molecular basis of EBOV infection. Among all the 7 proteins including NP, VP35, VP40, GP, VP30, VP24 and L of EBOV, structural proteins VP24 and VP35 have already been found playing a key role in interference with proper functioning of host interferon system. Present computational analysis offered insights into potentially underlying mechanisms of VP24. Suggestions for revision: The title seems too long. Single-point mutation in VP24 ---one of the key molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenicity of filovirus. The writing needs to be substantially improved. There are grammar errors, illogical expression, inaccurate, undefined and misleading descriptions, and some biased or questionable conclusions. Just take the abstract as an example where questionable words by the authors were marked in bold and my opinion labeled in italics . Immune response suppression is crucial for viral invasion. The protein VP24 is pivotal in achieving this in Ebola although interestingly the mechanism of immune suppression is different in the closely related Marburg virus [Here there is no error, just that the Marburg virus came out suddenly. Maybe the authors want to say: The protein VP24 is pivotal in achieving this in both Ebola and the closely related Marburg virus, although interestingly the mechanism of immune suppression is different] . Here, we illustrate [Illustrated? How? Computationally or experimentally? That is important for a comprehensive and clear understanding of this article] that a possible molecular basis [if its really just a possible basis, whats the value to publish a thing? And whats the value of your computational analysis？May be should be one of the key molecular basis] for this difference emanates from two alpha helical structures (5 and 6) in VP24 involved in binding human karyopherin (KPNA) (PDBid:4U2X), wherein the Ebola and Marburg viruses have distinctly different charged properties in 5. 6 is absent in Marburg, and [here, the subject is missing. Who/what has a different hydrophobic moment? 5 or 6 or something else?] has a different hydrophobic moment in the Reston Ebola (REBOV) species, which is surprisingly [what makes non-pathogenic in humans so surprising? The authors know why, and I know why, because we know background information related to Ebola, but the point is, you know and I know doesnt necessarily mean all the readers know why. The background information should be clearly presented with the least words. In all the 5 Ebola species, outbreaks of ZEBOV, SEBOV, CIEBOV and BEBOV have been recorded. However, REBOV has just been detected in swine] non-pathogenic in humans [the only one non-pathogenic in humans out of 5 Ebola species including ZEBOV, SEBOV, CIEBOV and BEBOV. This information actually should be given in the beginning of this abstract] . Based on the hypothesis that REBOV is not immunosuppressive, which is in turn is [here are two ? what does in turn mean?] due to its inability to bind KPNA, we show [ showed] by docking KPNA [which species? Human, mice or pigs?] to the REBOV VP24 that the single amino acid substitution R140S [what does mean? substitution of R to S at 140 residue? ] is responsible for this difference between REBOV and Zaire Ebola strains [just based on the analysis of only one protein VP24, could we safely conclude that is responsible for this difference between REBOV and Zaire Ebola? Do we have 100% confidence that there is absolutely no other mechanism within VP24 and provided by other proteins, say VP35? This just presents your direct analyzed results including what properties changed, including electrical charge, hydrophobic or hydrophilic, and their binding property to STAT1] . Such a scenario of getting a virulent REBOV through a single mutation is particularly worrisome, since the REBOV, once found only in monkeys, has been recently detected in pigs. We also reiterate the potential of using these helices as potential epitopes for generating protective antibodies against Ebola. The abstract should be logically organized, starting from background information to methods, direct analyzed results, conclusion and finally the significance of present research. In the introduction , some key information is missing which is indispensable for clear, accurate and logical understanding of the following analysis, related discussion and correlation between analysis and observed facts. For example: ​ There are Five EBOV species that have been defined, Zaire ebolavirus (ZEBOV), Sudan ebolavirus (SEBOV), Cote dIvoire ebolavirus (CIEBOV), Bundibugyo ebolavirus (BEBOV) and Reston ebolavirus (REBOV). They have shown different pathogenicity up to date. Outbreaks of ZEBOV, SEBOV, CIEBOV and BEBOV have been recorded. However, REBOV has just been detected in swine. In Ebola, the crucial role of host immune system evasion is accomplished by two proteins: VP35 and VP24. ---What about Marburg? Its also dependent on VP35 and VP24 or just on VP24? because we are going to compare between Ebola and Marburg. ​ The main part of the article - computer modeling and analysis of VP24 and its interactions to other molecules - is reliable and sufficient. However, what makes the present analysis valuable is whether these analysis explain observed facts including pathogenicity between Marburg and Ebola virus, and among different Ebola species, and what about experimental findings by others? In other words, are there any experimental observations supporting present analysis? In the Conclusion part of this article, the authors did not actually conclude their main analyzed results and corresponding significance. This is actually a discussion. About the discussion: ​ As both VP35 and VP24 contribute to immune evasion as described in , how could you get an accurate and reliable conclusion just based on the analysis of VP24? Change your angle of view. All previous experimental observations and conclusions by other scientists about VP24 should be included in discussion, giving a comprehensive and impartial comparative analysis. However, some key studies are obviously missing in this part. For example: The IFN system can protect immune-competent mice from lethal EBOV infection. Adaptation of ZEBOV to lethal infection of mice was associated with mutations in VP24 and NP ( Ebihara et al. , 2006 ). However, both wild-type VP24 and VP24 of the mouse-adapted (MA) strain were able to bind to human and mouse NP-1 importins and to disrupt the interaction with PY-STAT1 ( Reid et al. , 2007 ). Similar findings were documented for VP24 of REBOV, which is believed to be non-pathogenic for humans, and it was shown that ZEBOV, REBOV and MA VP24 can suppress IFN-b-induced gene expression ( Reid et al., 2007 ). Thus, alterations in VP24 interference with the IFN response might not account for the acquisition of virulence of MA ZEBOV in mice and for the lack of virulence of REBOV in humans, respectively. These findings are opposites of the present statement. However, the different, even opposite opinions on the same topic by different scientists are normal phenomenon in scientific community. The most important thing is how to analyze, to explain these differences and finally get a scientific conclusion and evaluation of you own work, without ignoring those opposite findings or opinions. 