Defining how tolerance is lost in Type 1 diabetes (T1D) will significantly contribute to our understanding of autoimmune dysregulation and the generation of beta-cell-specific effector T cell responses. Previous studies by the Tarbell lab demonstrated that DCIR2 + tolerogenic dendritic cells could promote self-tolerance to autoreactive CD4 T cells partly due to the upregulation of the transcription factor Zbtb32 in CD4 T cells. Overexpression of Zbtb32 in CD4 T cells was effective in delaying T1D by decreasing T cell proliferation and IFN-gamma synthesis. To further confirm the role of Zbtb32 in autoimmune diabetes, the current manuscript by Coley, et al. attempts to test the hypothesis that loss of Zbtb32 will exacerbate diabetogenic T cell responses and accelerate T1D in newly derived NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice. Contrary to their hypothesis, the data presented displays a moderate acceleration in spontaneous diabetes in male NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice, but no difference in female mice. In addition, there were no significant differences observed in activation markers, IFN-gamma synthesis, or proliferation between CD4, CD8, NK, and B cells in NOD and NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice. The manuscript is well-written, results are interesting, and the conclusions are supported by the provided data. While the majority of the data is “negative”, the results are insightful and informative to the T1D research community. However, there are minor concerns that need to be addressed with the manuscript in its current form: Zbtb32 is a negative regulator of GATA3, did the authors ever examine GATA3 expression levels and GATA3-dependent signaling pathways to determine if Th2 cytokine responses were elevated in NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice? The spontaneous incidence of T1D in female mice was stopped at 35 weeks of age, but the male incidence stopped at 45 weeks of age, if the female incidence was extended to the same time point, was there a difference? I agree with the authors’ discussion concerning strain differences and potential compensatory mutations that may account for the absence of accelerated T1D in NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice in contrast to other inbred mouse models. Out of curiosity, was EAE ever induced in NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice to determine if this mouse may exhibit an increased susceptibility to ascending paralysis? The figure legend for 4 needs to be consistent since the symbols are different for NOD and NOD.Zbtb32 -/- mice. 