This very well written manuscript describes the protocol for a quasi-experimental study using controlled interrupted time series. The study is currently being conducted in Brazil. The selected design is an innovative use of the controlled interrupted time series which can leverage routinely collected surveillance data to seek to address causal questions of interest. Moreover, the intervention being evaluated, namely the deployment of Wolbachia mosquitoes with the goal to reduce arboviral disease incidence, is innovative and shows great promise. I have two main comments: A desire to see more justification for why randomization was not possible. The difficulties of randomization in this setting are mostly described but, as you’ll see from my more detailed comments below, it’s not absolutely convincing that randomization would not have been possible here, even within the interrupted time series design. Because the measurement of incidence of the arbobviruses of interest is mostly through surveillance data and it may be difficult to blind communities to the use of Wolbachia , how can it be determined that in the treatment zones post- Wolbachia release any smaller incidence is not just related to the fact that there is lower reporting as community members expect the incidence of those viruses to go down? I have a big concern about the possibility of differential assessment of outcomes in treated and control zones. Can the authors elaborate on this in relevant places in the text? Here I offer some more minor points that may help with clarity for the reader: Abstract It could help the reader if when “dengue, chikungunya and Zika” are first mentioned in the abstract, they are also named as arboviruses i.e. to help readers not necessarily familiar with them to be certain that all three fall in to this class of viruses. Background Based on the title referring to arboviruses, as a reader, I was expecting the first sentence or so to at least mention of arbovirus. Would it be possible to do so? This could be achieved very easily by saying something like “ The global incidence of the arbovirus dengue has increased dramatically in recent decades .” In the 4 th paragraph referring to yellow fever, please clarify if is an arbovirus. The last sentence of the 6 th paragraph: “Laboratory data indicate a similar reduction in the competence of Wolbachia -carrying Ae. aegypti for transmitting other viruses including Zika, chikungunya, yellow fever and Mayaro”. If all listed are arboviruses, please edit “viruses” to “arboviruses”. In the 9 th paragraph, I very much appreciate the rationale that there was demand for scale-up of implementation of the Wolbachia releases. I would appreciate a little more clarity on why randomization was not possible since, given that not all areas of the study will receive the treatment during the study, the scale-up argument doesn’t seem sufficient to justify no randomization. I can very well imagine that there are many compelling reasons to not randomize, some of which are alluded to, and so it would help to be even clearer about this e.g. was it because of the existing partnerships and infrastructure making certain areas better for release than others? What else? Some of this is sort of implied in the text and it would be valuable to have just a few more explicit sentences regarding this. Related to my previous comments on arboviruses, in the 10 th paragraph where it is stated: “Here we describe a protocol for evaluating the effect of large scale non-randomized Wolbachia releases on the incidence of dengue, Zika and chikungunya in the municipalities of Niteri and Rio de Janeiro.”, again, it could really help the reader to edit this sentence to something like “…on the incidence of three arboviruses, namely dengue, Zika and chikungunya, in the……”. Also, see a later comment based on the discussion as to why yellow fever is not also included in the study. Methods – Study design Why do the two stated objectives only relate to dengue? It will be important to make clear in the manuscript as it is strange that the overall goals are related to three arboviruses but the objectives only related to one of them. Table 1: Are zones 1-3 in Niteroi and zones 1-3.2 in Rio the release areas? If so, please more clearly label this in the table as it is not immediately obvious to me when I look at the table even though I infer that it is the case. Perhaps add a sub-heading of “release areas” above the rows where the names of the release zones are provided. Methods – Study setting and population Overall, the rationale appears reasonable for the use of controlled interrupted time series but, in reference to my comments above, please look for some opportunities to be even clearer about why randomization could not be used. An interrupted time series design could still be adopted, but one with randomization could offer even stronger evidence. “In Rio de Janeiro, two administrative areas adjacent to the release area have been designated a priori as a comparative control zone (Figure 1), based on comparable sociodemographic characteristics and synchronous historical dengue time series (Figure 2 and Table 1).” I do not see any information on these SES characteristics except for population whereas I see the “synchronous historical dengue time series” data in Figure 2, which is really helpful. Can more info on SES be added to the appendix or is the data presented the extent of the available data? As a reader, I would want that information when judging the validity of the comparisons between treatment and control areas. Incidentally, is no historical data available on Zika and Chikungunga? If it is available, it would be really valuable to see that compared between treated and control. I see in the last paragraph of pg 6 that some such data is available so why not include it in the current manuscript? Controlled interrupted time series It is stated: “Zone-level ITS analyses will be performed 12 months after completion of releases in each zone, and each 12 months thereafter, with release zones considered ‘treated’ for the purpose of this analysis based on completion of releases, regardless of the long-term Wolbachia monitoring results.” What does “performed 12 months after completion”? Is it literally about the timing of running the analyses, even though data from each month will be used? The reason I ask for clarification is that on first read I thought that this meant there was a switch to only using data at 12 months after completion of the releases. Also, what is the time frame for control areas where there is no release? Please be more specific. “Aggregate release area level analyses will be performed for each municipality 12 months after completion of releases in the last zone and each 12 months thereafter.” What are municipalities? Please define this term when it is first introduced as I don’t see this term defined elsewhere. Is it city i.e. Rio and Niteroi? If so, why not just use the same term throughout i.e. municipality or city, and only choose one of those terms? Regarding analyses, I recognize that there may not be space but it would be beneficial to provide some more details including: Model diagnostics to be used e.g. what happens if there is even more dispersion than can be accommodated than the proposed negative binomial models? How will contrasts be made between the treated and control communities? As far as I can tell, this is not specified, though perhaps I’m missing it? Please specific which parameters will be used to estimate the “treatment” effect. How will the fact that the control zones are not randomized be accounted for in modelling i.e. although the set of control zones were selected to be comparable on average to those treated based on historical dengue incidence and SES, what about other factors that may be different between the treated and control zones? Will there be a “fake” interruption in the series for the control areas? It doesn’t seem necessary and may be problematic but would be valuable to describe explicitly what will be done in the time series modelling for the control zones. Discussion The discussion starts with a sentence on dengue, zika and yellow fever. Why is yellow fever not included in the outcome measures for the proposed study? Overall, this is a fascinating study and a great use of an interrupted time series. 