The manuscript by Chandler et al describes the sequencing, assembly and annotation of the Nippostrongylus brasiliensis mitochondrial genome using Nanopore sequencing technology. The comparison of the resulting assembly with other N. brasiliensis data from the parasite sequencing initatitive of the Sanger Institute and also with mitochondrial genomes from other nematodes support that the produced assembly is of high quality. In general, the structure of the article is a bit unusual. Methods and Results sections are combined, each part has multiple subsections that are not really connected. Some parts of the paper deal with the mitochondrial genome of N. brasiliensis other parts focus on very specific aspects of Nanopore sequencing. I would recommend to concentrate on the mitochondrial genome of N. brasiliensis and keep the nanopore-specific questions for a separate methodological paper. Section: Introduction The Introduction basically describes the lifecycle of N. brasiliensis and the mode of infection. The authors might consider writing a more general introduction about nematodes, parasites, .. that it is important to study these parasites to develop treatments. In addtion, there are multiple related parasites that are later part of the phylogenetic analysis. It would be good to give some information about those ones as well. e.g. what are their hosts? Section: Current reference genome Please provide the Genbank entry for the NCBI reference genome or provide the assembly that has been used for this study as supplemental data. Otherwise, it will be hard to reproduce the results. Section: Scientific justification please explain what a "read until” methodology is and provide some reference for the use of ONT MinION in studies of infectious disease outbreak. Is the N. brasiliensis isolate that was used for sequencing have a strain ID? If yes, please specify and at least register a biosample for it and give the accession number. Was it the same isolate that was used for the NCBI reference genome. Section: Whole-genome assembly with Canu How much sequencing data was obtained? Please provide some more details about the assembly results. How many Contigs, total size. For readers, that would like to use Nanopore technology to sequence their genomes it would be interesting to compare the quality of of the mitochondrial genome with nuclear contigs. I guess, that the lower coverage of nuclear contigs should also result in higher number mismatches with regard to the reference genome. A major finding of the paper could be that based on current nanopore technology, it only makes sense to do the multicopy mitochondrial genome. Such a statement could help people to plan their projects. Section: Error correction and circularisation How many sites had to be corrected. Error correction only makes sense, if the WTSI data is from the same isolate. Please clarify if this is the case. If it is the same isolate, there does the 2% mismatches come from in the "Whole-genome assembly with Canu" section. Section: Mitochondrial genome annotation "The amino acid associated with each tRNA was identified using BWA-MEM to map annotated tRNA sequences from Oesophagostomum columbianum, N. americanus, Strongylus vulgaris, and A. duodenale." Using BWA-mem to annotate tRNAs from other species sounds unusual. Do you have a reference where the performance of this methodology has ever been evaluated? Section: Phylogenetic analyses Please provide more information about the alignment, how many sites? amount of missing data? Please provide references for what is called "the classical morphological and global molecular phylogenies" Section: Read mapping/ Event mapping /Raw signal mapping (Table 3, Fig 4 and 5) These sections seem to examine very specific aspects of the Nanopore sequencing technology and do not add any addtional insights for the presented mitochondrial genome. I also have problems in understanding what kind of questions are asked. It seems to me, as if the authors try to examine whether Nanopore data has a preference for the template or complement strand or whether there is a bias for coding or non-coding sequences. How well the sequencing signal corresponds to the basecalls in the final assembly and what features correlate with variation in sequencing signals. The presented results are not conclusive (no statistical tests have been done to assess the significance of the results) and are not really related to the rest of the manuscript. I would recommend to use this and other comparable data for a separate more methodological paper. One additional feature that could be tested would be how differences raw and ideal event current, sequencing coverage depend on GC content. Minor comments Section: DNA extraction and library preparation The first paragraph should probably labeled as "Worm culturing" or something else. It has nothing to do with DNA extraction or library preparation Section: MinION sequencing "sequenced at 60 bases per second with a yield of about 200 Mb" does that mean per sequencing run? This section sounds a bit like a promotion of MinION sequencing. I would recommend to reduce it only to the parts that are relevant for the current paper. high through-put sequencing - high-throughput I wonder why the title has to have the information that R9 signal has been used. Probably most readers have heard about Nanopore sequencing but do not have a clue what R9 signal is. I would recommend to put this detailed information into the methods section but remove it from the title. 