This is an interesting re-analysis of published data on rapid test sensitivity, making the case that the rapid test might be more sensitive than previously thought, because of inaccuracy of the gold standard. Major comment I rated the article "approved with reservations" because I believe the current description of methodology is inadequate. It is not sufficient to refer to an online application for further details. The methods section of this article should provide technical details, for example the likelihood function, and any other information that would be needed for independent replication of the results using a different software package. This information should be sufficient to reveal assumptions that have been made in the model. The basic idea of a Bayesian model for two tests is not complex and can easily be programmed, my point is that the author of this article is responsible for explaining what he has done, and it is not satisfactory to say that the data were plugged into an online tool. Other comments I do not oppose the idea of questioning the sensitivity of PCR. There are other studies using serology and PCR which show that many influenza virus infections occur (based on observed rises in antibody titers) but are not detectable by RT-PCR. However, I am not convinced by this work alone that the reason for apparent low rapid test sensitivity is because PCR is an imperfect gold standard. I think the author should propose additional studies that could be done to confirm whether PCR is indeed an imperfect gold standard for the rapid test. I would suggest the author to be more cautious in his enthusiasm for his alternative explanation, in the absence of stronger evidence for that explanation. I am not sure if the author is aware that other studies of rapid test sensitivity have examined the viral load in respiratory swabs, and found that rapid test sensitivity tends to be lower in specimens with lower viral load, and specifically the detection threshold seems to be around 1-2 logs higher for rapid tests than for PCR 1 . I would view this observation as reasonably good evidence for poorer sensitivity of rapid tests compared to PCR. Wouldn't it be useful to do further analysis of specimens that are positive by the rapid test but negative by PCR? What kind of analysis is suggested? References 1. Cheng CK, Cowling BJ, Chan KH, Fang VJ, et al.: Factors affecting QuickVue Influenza A + B rapid test performance in the community setting. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis . 2009; 65 (1): 35-41 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: I have published work on the sensitivity of rapid diagnostic tests including QuickVue. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Cowling B. Reviewer Report For: Better than we thought? The diagnostic performance of an influenza point-of-care test in children, a Bayesian re-analysis [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :53 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10848.r20688 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-53/v1#referee-response-20688 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Tremblay N. Reviewer Report For: Better than we thought? The diagnostic performance of an influenza point-of-care test in children, a Bayesian re-analysis [version 1; peer review: 1 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :53 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10848.r20109 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-53/v1#referee-response-20109 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 10 Feb 2017 Nicolas Tremblay , Unité d'immunovirologie moléculaire, Centre de recherche du Centre hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada Not Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10848.r20109 In this report, Lee uses a Bayesian latent class model to estimate the specificity and sensitivity of QuickVue Point-Of-Care-Test for Influenza A B. The author concludes that, based on his retrospective analysis of two studies (Gordon et al, 2009; Harnden ... Continue reading READ ALL 