 Overview. The authors present a well-controlled immaculately-conceived and artfully interpreted paper on proteomic and genomic responses of the mammalian placenta to the most commonly administered drug in the world, paracetemol. The results of this paper are quite profound and long overdue. There are few are very few studies that attempt as complete an evaluation of drug response and in an organ specific manner. This authorship team has exploited the most pertinent drug interfaces for chemoprotection of the fetus to glimpse the system of toxicologicologic protection of the developing fetus and brain. They exploit two well known pharmacologically highly regulated barrier interfaces: the placenta and BBB. As experts on barrier development they have the right expertise to measure the developmental role and robustness of these understudied barrier interfaces to the drug paracetemol. Tylenol (as known by the US brand name) is a ubiquitous pharmacologic agent used world-wide for the abrogation of pain and systemic suppression of inflammation. While deemed one of the safest medications ever invented because of its common utilization by every age group and gender, and its long standing well-described clinical toxicities suggests that it has been vetted for safety over and over. But with the right question and under the correct experimental circumstance profound novel sensitivities in the physiology of mammals can be discovered. Such is the insight of this manuscript. Of note. The paper is very complete. They demonstrate both acute and chronic changes to the placenta transcriptome with strong statistical relevance. Interestingly the chronic and acute genetic changes have few if any overlapping genes suggesting that long term toxicologic homeostasis may have very different effects to fetal development than single dosing. Thus, as noted by the authors, the use for the control of acute inflammatory responses may be warranted, but chronic ingestion any substance should be view with caution when the developing fetus is concerned. Conclusion. This paper is well conceived, clearly written and expertly interpreted. Safety profiles of drugs are in flux and whether vertebrate homeostatic metabolic responses to drug exposure, acute or chronic, is truly benign is an open question. These authors clearly demonstrate, by the discovery of soluble protein changes in dosing of paracetamol, that there is more to learn about drug toxicology, in particular at the chemoprotective interfaces of the body, in this case the placenta and BBB. While the consequences of these proteomic changes are unclear they are corroborated by profound compensations in the transcriptional profiles of the placenta. Interestingly, the placental barrier does the lion share of compensation as the BBB of pups is nearly unchanged. This is a reassuring finding for the developing brain, but leaves many unanswered questions about how the fetus may affect maternal physiology (as noted by the authors). The implications of this study are profound and not only for the use of paracetamol. In this paper they describe a road map for the study of all drugs that could have maternal fetal interactions and provide the physiologic and genomic insights to back up their assertions. Indeed their proposed experiments in pregnant women to follow up on their findings would be very important to the management of pregnancy and to the field of maternal/fetal physiology as a whole. I love this paper. BRAVO! Major Issues None. Minor Issues. None. Typos. None. 