This is a great article that used an online survey to explore the perception and views of SSA respondents in the need for HTA, demand for HTA and supply of HTA. Survey response rate was low, however responses were from participants across 14 countries in SSA thus fairly representative of the HTA landscape in SSA. Almost half of the respondents were from Ghana, where progress has been made towards the use of HTA in the health system. Respondents considered HTA was most importantly needed for informing the design of basic health benefits package (for national health insurance schemes) and development of clinical guidelines and disease management pathways. Stakeholders perceived as potential users of HTA were those from the ministry of health, public health insurance bodies. Whilst some respondents were of the view that they could provide expertise and skills for HTA, the majority were of the view that there were limited local human capacity, data and other infrastructures to support HTA. Specific comments to improving the research paper are summarised below: The title of the article is suggestive of assessing capacity for HTA in terms of data, human and other infrastructure for HTA. However, the results are indicative of assessing what respondents perceived as the potential use, potential users and production of and barriers to producing HTA. The abstract mentions 51 respondents completing the survey but the results note that only 30 fully completed. The authors should note whether partially completed surveys were included in the analysis or otherwise and provide justification for the choice. It will be informative to provide a list of the countries that responded to the survey and also a list of where they worked. Given that the majority of respondents were from Ghana, perhaps authors should provide some reasons/speculations as to why this was the case. Could it be as a result of Ghanaian respondents being more aware of HTA due to the recent involvement with iDSi projects for HTA and progress made towards using HTA for formal decision making in the country? The authors should comment on whether the responses are likely to be biased by the general knowledge and awareness of respondents about HTA. Members of AfHEA and the majority of African health economists and policy analysts are mainly involved in health financing and not economic evaluation and HTA. It will be interesting to know the differences in responses between respondents from Ghana countries that may have some ongoing work towards the use of HTA for health decision making and those that do not. Another area to consider is the differences in responses between respondents according to their area of work. There are some studies from SSA that have explored the perceptions of decision-makers towards the use economic evaluations and HTA for decision making that covered the themes presented in this paper that the authors could have cited to support their findings. One study in Ghana (Addo et al. , 2020 1 ) and the other Ethiopia (Zegeye et al. , 2017 2 ). The discussion mentions Ghana transitioning from reliance upon donor assistance for health. Perhaps the authors should add more context and how that may contribute to the current landscape of HTA in Ghana. Lastly, the authors mention refining the survey tool in future iterations as it appears some questions were not entirely understood. Was this limitation considered in the data analysis? This point should be noted as a limitation of the study as it may have affected the responses and subsequent results presented in this paper. Also the authors should note what 'refinement' they intend to make to the survey tool - is it content wise, or rewording, etc. 