This is an opinion piece, so I reviewed it as such. The paper discusses a few possible directions for improving the scientific process. I largely agree with the expressed opinions. That said, I think that the text remains quite general and vague at times. For example, with respect to the second issue, what do you mean with ‘tutorials which are independently created rather than centrally edited’? About the third issue: what is your specific suggestion? That researchers should better frame their work before starting it (as to what methodology and statistical approach they will use), and adhere to that when writing the report? This is unclear. Further comments: In the abstract, the statement ‘warring among different perspective’ may need a bit more clarity. The paragraph where the second issue is explained, could start with ‘Secondly’. (The first issue is introduced with ‘firstly’, the third issue with ‘finally’.) Table 1: too concise in my opinion. On what N are the p-valus based? Are the Cohen’s d values observed ones? A bit more information on severity tests might be useful. Perhaps columns that belong together (p and Decision; BF and Evidence; if I’m correct) may be put together more clearly. The paragraph starting with ‘such enemy will be difficult to defeat’ is quite vague. E.g. what do you mean with terms like ‘tragedy of the commons’, ‘asymmetric information sharing’, ‘rationality of the enterprise’, and others? Pre-print servers (line 2 of p3): do you refer to repositories like arXiv? Regarding scientific structures and peer-review: my issue is that peer review is very important (I am afraid that reviewers are sometimes the only people who check the contents of a study report), but it remains a largely uncredited – almost secret – endeavor. Don’t you agree that it still needs to be made more official, e.g. that universities do not only demand their researchers to publish papers, but also to deliver decent peer review reports? For example, when I started my tenure track, the university told me what they expected in terms of publication output, grants, and PhD guidance, but they said nothing about peer review, and they never evaluated me on these terms. A decent peer review should almost count as much as publishing a paper? 'Factions' (bottom of first column on p3): what is that? Would the STRATOS initiative ( www.stratos-initiative.org ), coordinated by Willi Sauerbrei from Freiburg, be in line with the second issue? It brings together experts on different methodological topics in the context of observational studies, with the aim to provide guidance on how to address these topics. (I am a member of this initiative.) 