The revision of the manuscript is based on an extensive rewrite of the underlying software environment. Platform independence has been enhanced significantly by the use of a Docker container for producing the reference results. The instructions for the software environment have been improved as well. Moreover, using the authors' Docker image does not require me to accept any license conditions. My main criticism of this work has been resolved: I can easily reproduce the authors' results, and I feel confident that others can do it as well. The manuscript itself has also improved significantly, and most issues raised by the two reviewers have been addressed satisfactorily. The only aspect which I still consider unsatisfactory is the discussion of numerical discrepancies. The manuscript still mentions a "numeric tolerance of 1e-6", without saying if this is an absolute or a relative tolerance. An inspection of the Python script check_output.py reveals that this tolerance value is not used explicitly there. The reference and actual values are compared using the NumPy function allclose(), which, according to its documentation , applies an absolute tolerance of 1.e-8 when called as in the script. The authors should (1) use an explicit threshold in their script, rather than relying on a default value that may change in future versions of NumPy and (2) quote this same value in the manuscript. Furthermore, the only explanation given for the choice of threshold is "The threshold in the ‘check_output.py’ script is simply selected to catch the presence of any numerical difference between the test run and the reference run." Catching any numerical difference would imply a threshold of zero. The purpose of a threshold is to distinguish between "small" differences that are most likely due to platform-dependent roundoff from "significant" differences whose cause needs to be investigated. The choice of threshold therefore depends both on the numerical algorithms (potential for roundoff discrepancies) and on the scientific interpretation of the results (how big must a change be to influence the conclusions?), which is what should be explained in the article.