Thank you for the opportunity to review the manuscript by Rinchai et al , entitled “Finger stick blood collection for gene expression profiling and storage of tempus blood RNA tubes”. Blood gene expression profiling has led to rapid advances in our understanding of a range of pathological conditions, including cancer, autoimmune disease and infectious disease. Blood RNA stabilisation tubes have greatly advanced the ease and standardisation of blood collection for such studies. Developing this methodology further by enabling reduced blood volume collection by non-trained phlebotomists or even study participants themselves would facilitate more detailed investigations at greater frequency and more pertinent time points, for example during times of disease exacerbation, and by removing the necessity to visit healthcare settings. This article describes such a procedure, describing the collection of 50l blood in a capillary tube, collected into Tempus Tube stabilisation reagent. This paper therefore provides an important contribution to the blood transcriptomics field. However, the manuscript could be improved if the following points are addressed. The authors are suggesting that this sample collection method could be rolled out for home-based testing. However, the Tempus Tube RNA stabilisation reagent is hazardous according to the MSDS. This should be mentioned in the manuscript under the precautions section, whilst also addressing this limitation in terms of suitability for extensive roll-out for personal sample collection. Whilst the manuscript, including the figure and the accompanying video, are very explicit about the blood sample collection into the capillary tube, the preparation of the sample collection tubes in advance is not described. Including this under the preparation steps would be very helpful, as from the video it is difficult to see the Tempus reagent already in the tube. The paper would be substantially improved by the inclusion of some RNA quality data, although the authors indicate RNA extraction will be published in a separate manuscript. But it would be reassuring to see some quantity and quality indicators in this manuscript, or the inclusion of some downstream analysis data to demonstrate that reasonable quality RNA can be generated. I agree with reviewer Angela Vinturache that the paper does not show much data regarding the storage of Tempus tubes as described in the paper title, except for a note about storage at -20 o C being better than -80 o C. In our experience, we get good yields of RNA from Tempus Tubes when samples have been stored at -80 o C, as normally recommended for long-term RNA storage, believed to be due to inactivation of RNAses. A comment on why -20 o C is better would be useful. Overall I think this is an important manuscript which could stimulate the expansion of blood-based transcriptomics for disease analysis and treatment monitoring, and recommend that it is indexed, subject to addressing the reservations (particularly point 1) described above. 