The paper by Combs and Eisen extends the previously published dataset of RNA-seq measurements in cryo-sliced Drosophila embryos to mutants of patterning genes. As the authors state, most common methods for gene expression measurements are either limited in throughput or average over spatial coordinates. The development and application of an experiential approach addressing this gap is therefore of high interest. Datasets produced with this approach are an extremely valuable resource to diverse studies in the community. In the presented application the author go beyond the characterization of wild type embryos to the examination of Zelda, Hunchback and Bicoid mutants. This study thus offers the opportunity to examine the contribution of these key factors to the formation of spatial patterns of gene expression in the early embryo. That said, the description of the analyses carried out and the presentation of the results could be improved to further facilitate the usefulness of this dataset and of the approach. While the analyses focuses on comparison between samples (and here a single slice from a single embryo at a single time point can be considered a sample) the authors provide little information on how these comparisons are done. It would be beneficial to specifically note what type of assumptions are made in the analysis, how samples are normalized with respect to one another and how these normalizations influence the quantitative nature of the statements that can be made. For example, does the analysis performed implicitly assume that the total number of RNA produced (and captured) in each slice is the same? Can the authors address more extensively how they deal with differences in the exact number and size of slices. As patterns are then normalized to their maximal level prior to comparison between conditions, it seems genes are not assumed to maintain the same maximal activity yet claims about absolute changes in level cannot be made; can the authors clarify if this is indeed the case. Given these issues, it would be useful to include a more explicit description how a “uniform” vs a “patterned” gene is defined. Maybe the authors could show this graphically using an average plot of all of the heat map data for the genes classified this way. A clarification of the quantitative meaning of phrases as a “greatly perturbed pattern”, “Higher expression everywhere” or “same response in absolute level”, would help elucidate the insights obtained from the data. It would also be useful if the authors provided a more extensive explanation of their usage of EMD, a method that was not employed in their analysis in their 2013 paper. This can be included the in methods/supplemental information. How would the similarity in the changes between genes/mutants ascertained with this measure compare to others measures (e.g. correlating patterns or changes in patterns). In Figure 10, could the summation of the EMD scores mask some of the signal? (is the result the same for each EMD score?). What is the initial diversity in patterns among genes that belong to the same set in this analysis (i.e. sharing a similar ChIP binding pattern)? The authors present figure 10 as an investigation of how genes with binding sites for the same TFs respond to perturbation (assuming “patterned responses” means responses to mutation), but only discuss their wild-type patterns. This is a good example of the heatmaps having too much information to be illustrative. It is difficult to relate the EMD to physical changes in patterns of target genes. It's not obvious, based on the barplot and the heatmaps in the figure, what it is about these expression patterns that resulted in these two groups of genes being significantly different from each other. Maybe a better explanation of the EMD would clarify this. It is not directly clear mathematically how EMD measures how quantitatively different two groups are. For example, only two cohorts of TFs showed a significant difference in the EMD of the genes in their group; the histograms show the distributions of EMDs in genes with each cohort of TF binding sites vs. the EMDs in the total dataset; it looks like the two significantly different groups are both skewed toward higher EMDs than the total dataset, but it is unclear what makes them different from each other, based on the figure and the explanations provided. Additionally, despite showing the replicates in most figures, I still find it hard to assess to what extent are patterns variable between replicates (due to both biological and technical reasons) and what is the magnitude of these differences compared to those observed in the mutants. For instance in Figure 4A, do the zld replicates show bigger differences than most of the other presented comparisons? How is the significance of the differences between the presented distributions should be assessed? While the large heatmaps are useful for initially appreciating the scope of the method and for showing overall patterns, it is difficult to assess the change in a pattern for a specific gene (or subset of genes). Possibly presetting the data in each mutant genotype as the change from wild-type would help in that regard? The legend of the figures can be more elaborate and clearer. For example I am not sure I understand the analyses presented in Figure 6. Is the pattern or the change in pattern averaged and presented? The replicates in this figure seem quite different from one another, and it is hard to see how the “changes recapitulate known TF localization and function”, as stated in the title. Isn’t averaging over the 100 genes with largest changes masking the patterning changes (unless they are highly similar among all of these genes)? Only some of the colors presented are mentioned in the legend. There is a reference to panels A-D but these do not appear in the figure. Some figures include “G20”, yet only in a supplementary figure legend it is specified that it indicates the bicoid overexpression line. Finally, as the method is still rather new, and it is very hard to assess experimental error, can the authors pick one of the more surprising observations, like a gene with increased expression in the posterior in bcd mutant, and provide a control experiment with an alternative method (e.g. in situ ) demonstrating at least a qualitative agreement?