I had initially understood that the title of this study could be: " Correlation between promoter methylation and miRNA regulation of target genes." Which in simpler terms could mean that miRNA targeted genes tend to have more hypomethylated promoters (or hypermethylated maybe) than expected by chance. In the current form it is still unclear to me how the data actually support this conclusion. The lack of illustration makes the article hard to follow, the author present the results of statistical tests without providing a clear description of what effect he is actually evaluating. And on further reading it seems that the objective of this study is largely incomprehensible to me. The first question comes in the datset compilation: how was it done and what were the criteria used to accept or reject data used in the study? A figure representing the process of dataset generation would be welcome. The author states: “ I tested profiles from this dataset to confirm that obtained results were not research group dependent. ” How was this done? It is well known that biological experiments on a genome scale are inherently noisy so results even within the same group will not be the exact replicate of one another. What was considered acceptable to create a dataset compendium? Was any normalization applied? Was there an a posteriori check that the independent sets were behaving in the same way as the compendium? If not, would the same conclusion have been obtained by analyzing them separately? Is only part of the data driving the conclusion and can it be explained by the different cell lines? Elsewhere, the author states “ It should be noted that genes that were not the targets of any miRNAs were totally excluded from the analysis ” which makes me think that I totally missed the initial point of this work as I thought the objective was to test the hypothesis that promoter methylation status was related to miRNA targeting of the produced messenger. In this, genes that are not targets of miRNA would be useful as a control group. Even if the author is trying to demonstrate a relationship between the amount of miRNA regulation and methylation, non-target genes would be an essential control. The second question arises from the choice of the values used for methylation. The author states: “ I employed a method in which total methylation values were used(..) because I found that P-values computed when using methylation data were more strongly correlated to the P-values calculated from target gene miRNA regulation data, which is likely due to the fact that the frequency of CpGs is also related to miRNA targeting ” and later: “ βi was the ratio of methylated sites to unmethylated sites, (...) were deposited in the public datasets used, their use could not be avoided; however, as a result, the correlation with target gene miRNA regulation was substantially decreased. An explanation for this is noted above. ” “Obtaining a better P-value”, is not an acceptable rationale for changing the way the methylation of a promoter is “typically represented”. The reason why the association between CpG island associated genes and miRNA targeting explains the difference in P-values between using total methylation values and proportion of methylated sites, is not obvious. It hints at a different behavior between CpG and non CpG promoters, would it not then make sense to process them separately? It seems that the two ways of representing the data mean very different things and that decision could greatly affect the conclusions that can be extracted from the results. If I understand correctly, with the absolute number method a promoter with 2/3 methylated sites would be counted the same as a 2/10 yet in one case one could consider the first to be 66% methylated and the other 20%. The implication of this choice on the results of the study should be discussed more thoroughly. In table 1, if the top part is indeed calculated with ratio and bottom with absolute, what were the thresholds to be counted as hypomethylated in each case? What does the “number of miRNA” actually represent? The author indicates that he multiplied the number of miRNA (1971) by the number of cell lines included (271). What does this product represent in the end? Why were the datapoints not aggregated by promoter and/or miRNA in the context of this study? Table 3 for example is symptomatic of how the lack of illustration makes the article hard to follow: “ P-values that represent the difference of promoter methylation between miRNA target genes and miRNA non-target genes. ” The P-value doesn't represent a “difference in promoter methylation”, it evaluates the likelihood of the observation happening by chance given the dataset distribution. But what is the observation here? Are promoters of genes targeted by miRNA 60% methylated vs 58% for the non targeted? (is it 10 vs 87?) Are we considering a very slight effect with a very strong statistical significance or a very obvious strong effect for which the statistical test is not even needed to be convinced of the solidity of the result? Moreover, just below that table the author explains why he doesn't discriminate between hypo and hypermethylation of promoters. That makes table 3 very puzzling; is this P-value evaluating the likelihood of miRNA targeted gene promoters to be significantly BOTH over and/or under methylated relative to non-targeted genes? Table 4 has been added as a response to my previous comment however it seems to bring further question as to what “miRNA-targeted-gene promoter methylation” really means. My first comment is that this control should not constitute a separate table but an additional entry in the original table. Secondly, there are many ways to generate random shuffling of the data that will destroy the “signal”, however for a random shuffling to be a valid control of the biological significance of the observation, the randomization should be performed in a way that preserves at least part of the actual data structure. For example, if one works on a scale free distribution and discovers biological associations within this distribution, one would not generate a shuffled set as control that would have a gaussian distribution but instead would have to preserve the scale-free distribution. In this case, no details are provided regarding what steps have been taken to ensure that the randomization preserved any of the original data structure. It is hard to believe what part of the data structure is conserved in this randomization when in the actual data between 72% to 92% of the 500,000 items studied are found to be significant (Table 1) and only 3 to 6 /500,000 have that characteristic in Table 4. Similarly, in Table 5 “ Correlation coefficients between P-values(..) ” it is unclear what the numbers actually represent. I am familiar with measuring the P-value of a correlation coefficient through multiple randomly shuffled distributions to insure the significance of the observed correlation. But it is unclear to me what a correlation between P-values actually represents since they could well be associated with opposite effects. Finally, Figure 1 that should bear the take home message doesn't provide a better idea of what the conclusions of the paper are: the top part shows two genes targeted by different numbers of miRNA having different levels of methylation. From this it seems that the correlation found is actually between the amount of regulatory miRNA and hypomethylation, but how this was derived from table 1 and 2 is totally unclear. What happens in the boxed part of the figure is even more confusing as it shows a young cell, with 3 (expressed?) genes, becoming a senescent cell, expressing only one with methylation unchanged even though the amount of mir-548 targeting is represented higher. Meanwhile, the opposite is the case for the differentiation scheme. All the represented promoters (?) in the box seem to be hypomethylated regardless of the number of miRNA targeting the corresponding mRNA in total opposition to what the study seems to claim. I think overall the methodology and lack of illustrations obfuscate the point for readers. Non-specialists and specialists alike will find it hard to follow the author’s reasoning for want of clarity in the methods used. A scientific paper should strive to present the data in a way that can convince experts of the field and also explain to non specialists how the observed results lead to the presented conclusions. I feel that on both accounts this manuscript is not reaching these goals.