Very much improved, thank you! Although not relevant to reviewing this manuscript, I feel there is a debate to be had about the relative merits of genetic counsellors as opposed to other disability oriented health professionals (who see many more disabled children and their families with both acquired and genetically driven disabilities), third sector support groups, virtual/online/interactive resources, others, to best support families who are considered to be in need. A strong focus on health and social outcomes would have a priority. Perhaps, something a well designed research study could investigate? It would also be helpful to understand what hard-pressed parents (the ones who rarely engage in research!) actually want, what are their priorities. Addressing their social circumstances by other means, through education (a generational issue) and social care (more immediate) might improve their self-perception and sense of control over these difficult matters, and, vitally, their children's developmental outcomes. A few minor comments: 1. A formal definition of ID in the intro (alongside the given definition of DD) would be valuable. 2. Diagnostic yields achieved 50-70% WITH (not UNTIL) the advent of arrays and sequencing. 3. "...often results in an extended period of coping and adaptation...", but surely the coping is life long? Suggest say "protracted period for acceptance and adaptation". 'Referral criteria': The family have lower levels of perceived control/increased levels of uncertainty - How would this be formally and equitably assessed? Is the LOT-R validated for perceived control? It was designed more to assess optimism vs pessimism, is this a valid surrogate of personal control? The family have a lack of social support - Designing a fair and equitable disability oriented social deprivation risk assessment tool would be enormously challenging, history shows. The affected person has a novel or very rare diagnosis about which little information is known - very difficult to equitably delineate this. Rare does not equate with complexity of care, extent of disability, impact on family. Consider the huge variation in presentation children diagnosed with the same CNV syndrome. The affected person remains undiagnosed. - S hould always be in follow-up and/or a research study. 4. Generally, try not to cite the same reference multiple times, ie Lipinski 2006, Madeo 2012, Middleton 2015. Use other sources.