This article presented the finding of Indonesian herbal extracts for preventing and treating fish diseases. This article might be indexed after several major issues are addressed: Are Boesenbergia pandurata (BP), Solanum ferox (SF) and Zingiber Zerumbet (ZZ) typical plants in Borneo? Are the plants not found in the other parts of Indonesia? If yes, please replace the "Borneo" with "Indonesia" in the title and throughout the article. Write one sentence of background in the Abstract. Describe systematically in the Abstract: how to prepare the extracts, design experiment, feed preparation, infection, data collecting (hematology, non-specific immune etc.) and data analysis. Write the exact concentration for the extract in mg/kg feed instead of ml/kg. Using units of ml/kg feed is not appropriate as the exact concentrations are not known. Write systematically the results in the Abstract as described in the Methods. The units are written inconsistently: format (.../...., .... per ...., .... .... -1 ). “Antibody titre” is a term to evaluate the effect of vaccines. To evaluate the effect of immunostimulants, we should use the term "Natural Agglutination" as we are not evaluating the specific antibody. No data are presented for Antibody titre/Natural Agglutination, even though this parameter is described in the Methods. The authors are confused by the terms of phagocytic activity and phagocytic index. Phagocytic index is not described before either in the Abstract or Materials and Methods. However, the authors describe phagocytic activity in Materials and Methods. Phagocytic index and phagocytic activity are two different parameters. Please refer to some of the recommended references. Add deviation standard for each bar in all graphs. Add the notation in each bar of all graphs and values in tables to show insignificant or significant difference based on DMRT test results. Discussion: please interpret properly and add additional explanation about why the extracts affect the immune system of fish and increase the SR and RPS. Describe the possible constituents in the extracts by citing the previous publications. Add these references in the Introduction, Materials and Methods, and Discussion: Yudiati et al. (2016 1 ), Isnansetyo et al. (2016 2 ) and Isnansetyo et al. (2015 3 ). Some grammatical errors were found. 