This paper reports the results of a qualitative study into the perceived effectiveness of the Software Sustainability Institute's Fellowship program between 2012-2016; a programme that provides fellows with financial support to attend a range of events to help build awareness in sustainable software engineering "best" practice and processes relevant to research software. The authors suggest that the results of the study reveal that the fellowship programme supports communities of best practice and knowledge transfer in the development of sustainable research software. However, this position is not sufficiently supported by the anecdotal evidence reported in the paper. This was an extremely interesting paper to read; hopefully the first of many by the authors or the Institute that examine the efficacy of the programme and the impact of the Software Sustainability Institute in transforming the development of research software as a whole. The topic is of significant interest to those working in the field of research software engineering - especially potential fellows - and of general interest to the broader software engineering community as a whole as it pertains to having identified individuals that practice and promote sustainable software engineering "best" practice with a particular focus on research software as a first-class research object. The paper attempts to address a pertinent question regarding the efficacy of the fellowship programme as a mechanism for gathering intelligence about research and software from all disciplines and identifying and communicating good software best practice in a range of different domains. The paper would benefit enormously from a background section that included the motivation for the creation of the Software Sustainability Institute in the first instance i.e. unsustainability of academic software, and linking this to the study by Hettrick et al. 2014 1 who demonstrated the importance of software in research. In addition, the paper would also benefit from introducing and defining key terms and concepts for readers unfamiliar with the topic of software sustainability and linking these to emerging themes being driven forward by leading researchers and groups in the fields of requirements engineering, software architectures, HCI, and software engineering in general that address software sustainability. The overall research methodology is described in sufficient detail. It is somewhat surprising and disappointing that critical demographic data has not been reported in the paper including the recipient's job role and their institutions at the time the fellowships were awarded, as this information is already publicly available and free to harvest should anyone be interested in doing so; this would seem to be a major oversight and the rationale in the paper for its exclusion would appear to be rather weak. In addition, the paper would have benefited enormously by including data related to recipient’s track record and how have they promoted software sustainability prior to the fellowship programme as a comparison; this would have provided a baseline to establish how the programme transformed the recipients into ambassadors of good software practice in their domains. However, without having established what good or best practice means in the first instance, any claims are challenging at best to determine. It is worth noting that not all fellows are research software engineers. As such, some analysis on the range of the recipient's job role would have been interesting since the programme is designed to promote diversity to people at different stages in their career. The results of their analysis revealed a number of interesting findings. However, the main result revealed a worrying trend in that the primary outcome is simply an improvement in the status of beneficiaries of the fellowship programme. This raises serious questions as to whether the programme has failed to achieve its primary aim as a key driver of the programme is the promotion of sustainable software engineering practice to produce verifiable, shareable and useful research output. The paper also contains several unsubstantiated statements to support a number of claims regarding the perceived benefits of the programme. The claim by one recipient that the collective fellowship in their domain has had a global impact cannot be substantiated and is at best anecdotal. Similarly, it is unclear how the programme helped recipients become "better" scientists. Against what baseline is this improvement being measured? Without any control mechanism in the study, it is impossible to demonstrate with any certainty that the perceived benefits of the programme could not have been achieved in another way. It would have been interesting for the study to have considered what better sustainability practice means in practice and identify the range of sustainability issues that the variety of communities face. The use of a distributed version control system and commenting code does not in itself make software sustainable. Based on the results of this study the primary benefits of the fellowship programme are the sole recipients themselves. The benefits to the broader community outside the echo chamber have yet to be established and provide a fruitful area for further research. Overall this was an interesting study of an exciting fellowship programme that lays the foundation for future assessment of the programme as a whole in order to assess the wider benefits to the broader community at large. 