The manuscript titled “ Prediction of recombinant Mycobacterium tuberculosis α-crystallin oligomer chaperone activity using polynomial graphs ” by Gautam Krishnan and Utpal Roy demonstrated the relationship between various higher-order oligomers of Acr and its relation to the prevention of aggregation of insulin B chain as a function of its chaperone activity, predicted using a mathematical polynomial graph. Earlier reports showed that Acr exists in multiple higher-order oligomers, which is related to their chaperone functions. Acr is a vital chaperone protein expressed majorly in the stationary phase as well as in hypoxic conditions. It is required for the survival of M. tb in macrophages; thus, it is a critical virulence effector. The authors utilize the previously known pieces of information and use of polynomial graphs in the prediction of Acr oligomers and its relation to its chaperone activity. They devised a novel way to predict Acr chaperone activity and its relation to the oligomeric state of the Acr. The manuscript is well written, organized, and presented. Few minor concerns which are mentioned below should be addressed before finalizing the manuscript for indexing. Introduction: The last sentence of the first paragraph needs revision. Minor grammatical error is present. Results: Acr of Mycobacterium tuberculosis exists in multiple oligomeric states, as reported earlier, and also mentioned by the authors in the introduction section. As shown in the denaturing gel picture, only prominent SDS resistant dimeric or trimeric forms are visible, other oligomers are present only in minute quantity. Is the dimeric form being the stable and primary oligomeric state of Acr in M. tb ? The authors should also label gel pictures indicating Molecular weight standards and various oligomers. How the authors calculated the percentage of various oligomers of Acr? Whether they used three gels run with samples purified in different batches or the results given are from a single gel? The sentence starting under the heading “Chaperone activity at 60C” needs revision. The authors should revise the sentence. 