Brysbaert et al. describe an API for their RINspector tool for the analysis of residue interaction networks (RINs). This API allows RIN analysis in an automated fashion (batch mode), controlled from any programming language that can perform HTTP requests. The authors provide two use cases as an example. The article is sound and well-written. I have only minor comments pertaining the didactic value of the paper: I feel the authors could lower the barrier for users of the software, by explaining better what it is good for and how to get it running. The running time of the use cases should be reported, to demonstrate the amount of human time saved. The use case example scripts are available from the Git repository, but this is not mentioned, and the repository itself is not easy to browse. Direct links would be better. The software relies heavily on Cytoscape, its app store, and it's cyREST technology, and the authors assume that the reader has good knowledge of these. However, Cytoscape is not much used in the protein structure community. I recommend that the authors include a link to a short install manual for Cytoscape, cyREST and RINspector, plus any other necessary steps that must be performed before the example scripts can be run. It deserves some explanation that the RINspector API is not meant to (and in fact, unable to) provide any kind of web service. The reason why might be well-known within the Cytoscape community, but again, Cytoscape is not very well known among structural biologists, and I have never used it myself. From what I understand, the cyREST technology is very poorly named, since it is not a proper (i.e. stateless) REST protocol at all. Instead, it seems to be a technology to send state-manipulating commands (load data; analyze current data; etc.) over HTTP to a running instance of Cytoscape. The RINspector API follows this state-manipulating paradigm. In addition, it seems that Cytoscape cannot run behind a web server because it always runs a GUI. 