In their manuscript entitled " ABSScan: In silico alanine scanning mutagenesis for binding site residues in proteinligand complex", the authors have discussed the development of an in silico workflow for the prediction of important residues for ligand recognition in a given protein-ligand complex. In our opinion, the ABS-Scan tool has been designed and validated satisfactorily. The online web-server is intuitive, fast and easy to use. In the present version of the paper and the software tool, the authors have incorporated the recommendations provided by the previous referees, many of which in our opinion are relevant. We have the following suggestions. The authors state that 288 of the total 343 protein-ligand complexes from the CSAR dataset, 135 of the 195 protein-ligand complexes from the PDBbind dataset and 54 of the 79 experimental datasets could be processes by ABS-Scan. Although, the authors mention in their responses to referee comments of version 1 of the manuscript, that ABS-Scan rejected some protein-ligand complexes due to unusual atom types or missing protein/ligand atoms or unusual convention for ligand atoms, it would probably be helpful for users to determine the kind of protein-ligand complexes that are suitable/unsuitable for prediction using ABS-Scan if authors could discuss this aspect in a sufficiently detailed manner. Was there anything in particular or common in the rejected complexes from the three datasets used for validation? It would be great if they could possibly provide the list of the rejected complexes and the reason for rejection, similar to what they have done for the protein-ligand complexes which were used for validation of the ABS-Scan tool. It is usually seen that short peptide ligands are present as a separate chain in the protein structure files. Particularly for these cases, there is no option in the web-interface of ABS-Scan to enter the other chain as ligand. Can you please elaborate how your software tool handles such protein-ligand complexes? While providing the G values for the mutated residues, we think it would be a useful if the ABS-Scan server also provides some indication of evolutionary conservation of the residue. This would allow the users to translate ABS-Scan results from already known or docked protein-ligand complexes to other homologs of the same protein family. 