The authors report a case of a 52 year old diabetic lady with complications, presenting with pyelonephritis. Cultures were negative and she was treated with antibiotics that were regularly escalated. She was also found to have bilateral sensorineural deafness on audiometry. Elevated liver enzymes prompted testing for scrub typhus and the IgM came back positive, leading to initiation of doxycycline and defervescence within hours. For any case report, the diagnosis must be as robust as possible and an effort made to rule out other possible diagnoses. I agree with the other review that malaria should be ruled out. Other diagnoses to be excluded include leptospirosis, biliary infection or pancreatitis. Other background information would be useful e.g. antibiotics used pre-admission, occupation, freshwater contact, rodent contact, agricultural work, insect bites, alcohol intake and past history of scrub typhus. The basis for the diagnosis of scrub typhus used in this report is limited. A "'Scrub IgM positive" does not inform the reader of what serological test or method was used, where the test was performed, what diagnostic cut-off was used to determine a positive result and whether this cut-off has been validated for the population which the patient belongs to. I suspect the test used was the InBios Scrub Typhus IgM ELISA, in which case the OD value and how the diagnostic cut-off was reached should be stated so the reader can form their own opinion on the strength of diagnosis. The diagnosis of scrub typhus is not straightforward 1 . Antibody-detection tests (IFA, ELISAs) have inherent weaknesses, such as the presence of circulating antibodies in individuals within an endemic area where repeated exposure occurs, leading to false positive results. Acute and convalescent samples can give a clearer picture and a rise in antibody titre to = 4 times is usually part of the diagnostic criteria. Is a convalescent blood sample available to compare IgM serology results? Culture and PCR will be more specific and will greatly improve the certainty of diagnosis but may not be available. Scrub typhus can cause AKI, glomerulonephritis and nephrotic syndrome so pyelonephritis is possible 2 , 3 . However, the diagnostic case for scrub typhus must be more robust than currently presented. Additionally, one could argue that the general trend was that she was improving when doxycycline was initiated on day 6 as observed on the fever chart, which would go against severe scrub typhus with a renal complication. Two main lessons can be drawn from this report. Firstly, in regions where scrub typhus is endemic and accurate diagnostic assays are unavailable, empirical treatment with doxycycline should be considered. Secondly, antibody-detection assays for scrub typhus have inherent weaknesses and until paired antigen/IgM tests are available, acute and convalescent samples are recommended for diagnostic confirmation. In this report, the evidence for scrub typhus infection is currently limited and the conclusion that this diagnosis is established should be delayed until further diagnostic information is available. 