This case report describes an unusual complication of chronic catecholamine excess due to a pheochromocytoma in a young patient. Although the symptoms of catecholamine excess had been present for over a decade, the diagnosis was missed even after he suffered a myocardial infarction 3 years prior to the diagnosis. It addresses an important topic, the necessity of screening for secondary causes of atherosclerosis and hypertension in young individuals. Below are more specific comments by section: Abstract: The conclusion that catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy may be irreversible if there is structural damage to myocytes despite adequate medical and surgical treatment of a pheochromocytoma is a heavy statement, considering the fact that stress induced cardiomyopathy is usually self-limiting. In the current case the reason for the irreversible damage was primarily the prolonged severe catecholamine excess that had remained undiagnosed for many years. Introduction: More information about the pathophysiology of accelerated atherosclerosis and cardiac injury due to chronic catecholamine excess would be useful. Clinical findings: The authors should explain why long acting alpha adrenergic blockade agents were used instead of other short acting agents. In severe cases of catecholamine induced cardiomyopathy with low EF, use of short acting iv calcium channel blockers (nicardipine), is by far safer (short acting, easy to titrate, fast clearance, etc). The authors should also mention whether screening for other genetic mutations (especially SDH) has been performed. Discussion: The discussion should focus on the following areas: The necessity of close monitoring post adrenalectomy in cases of catecholamine producing tumors associated with cardiac complications. Selection of adrenergic receptor blockers or other anti-hypertensive medications in patients with cardiomyopathy. Review of the recovery time of cardiomyopathy post successful surgical removal of catecholamine producing tumors. 