Summary: This paper reports the construction of some vectors to express various sialidases with the ultimate intention of generating transgenic chickens expressing these genes. The strategy is intended to protect chickens against influenza virus by eliminating the receptor for the virus. The vectors were tested transiently in 293T cells and then in stable MDCK cell lines. Expression of the influenza NA and S.typhimurium NA reduced alpha 2-3 sialic acid levels at the cell surface as judged by lectin staining. I see very little of publishable merit at this stage of the work and the quality of the text requires substantial improvement. Specific comments: Abstract: 1. H5N1 is not showing increasing infection/adaptation for humans. 2. I suggest the authors consider the increased threat posed by H7N9 which is arguably of far more concern at present. Introduction: 3. The cumulative case count for H5N1 is 454 deaths out of 860 total cases. It is unlikely that the case count of a disease with this high case fatality rate has caused "several thousand" cases and "some with fatal outcome". The wording here is very imprecise. 4. The citation is from 2005 and totally inappropriate. See: http://www.who.int/influenza/human_animal_interface/2018_03_02_tableH5N1.pdf?ua=1 5. Seasonal flu vaccination is primarily used to protect individuals in high risk groups. Its impact on spread in the general population is probably insignificant. Methods: 6. The construction details for RFP-P2A-infNA are not provided. 7. The method for the determination of the lentivector titre is unclear. The analysis by FACS is OK, but what are the authors referring to when they mention "The viral titre corresponded to the number of colonies developed at the highest dilution?" 8. What exactly do they mean by "three serial infections"? 9. Typo: they used ~1x10 4 , not 1x10 -4 MDCK cells. Note: I could not access all the supplementary info (even on the Harvard Dataverse). Results: 10. d_infNA-RFP is not defined, but presumably it is the inactive E262D. 11. Surely a typo for the SD value here: infNA-RFP - 4.725(983) 12. Before making more complex speculations regarding the inactivity of the hNeu3 and Act.v.Sia constructs, the authors should demonstrate they are expressed in the correct compartment. RFP expression merely shows the mRNA were translated. 13. Another typo for the SD: infNA- RFP, +dox - 1.468 (439)? 14. The consistent apparent activity of the N1 neuraminidase acting on non-transduced cells, could more simply be an indication that the protein is being secreted. The lack of data on protein localisation does not help with the interpretation. The "slip-stream" explanation hypothesising that many more cells are transduced than were apparent in the photos is possible, but not very credible as this would also need the lentivirus titre/transduction efficiency to be much higher for the infNA vector. 15. Little consideration regarding the topology of their constructs has been given. Discussion: 16. The discussion is quite superficial. The authors might like to mention related approaches such as DAS181 and the discussions regarding this general approach 1 17. There are reports that de-sialylation does not completely abrogate influenza infectivity. A point perhaps worth mentioning briefly. 18. They may wish to mention more about the possible physiological consequences e.g. the potential impact on the MCE of constitutively expressing a sialidase 2 19. The choice of appropriate promoter is not discussed in any detail. Presumably the intention is to restrict expression to relevant tissues i.e. the respiratory and GI tract in the case of poultry. Do they have a particular promoter in mind? 20. The practicalities of using a Dox-inducible promoter are not considered. Is the intention to treat flocks continuously with Dox to prevent infection, or to respond prophylactically to an outbreak in a nearby location? The use of Dox in this way is undesirable for several reasons. 