It is an interesting work providing new information on the issue of thrombocytosis in colon cancer patients. It contains relevant clinicopathologic parameters, however, there is no data on ethnicity, smoking habits, inflammatory processes, comorbidities, or medications of the studied patients, all which might have impact on platelet count (Msaouel et al. , 2014) . The main factors that can influence the platelet count should at least be discussed. In Figure 1. the Authors discussed the mean platelet count according to the depth of tumor invasion. Although it might change statistically significantly, the mean platelet count remains much within the normal range, therefore, the conclusion that we identified a mild, T stage-dependant increase in mean platelet count is not well-founded. One of the most critical aspects of the investigation is the number of patients, especially in stage II, as disproportionately firm conclusions have been drawn regarding correlation between overall survival and thrombocytosis on the basis of only four patients with thrombocytosis in stage II. Another weakness of the study is the lack of information on the precise localizations of the primary tumors, as this in itself may be of prognostic value, e.g. Majek et al. (2012) . Although neoadjuvant treatment has been mentioned, it was not discussed in details, similarly, adjuvant treatments in advanced cases were not detailed either.These issues should be discussed in the "Discussion". In Figure 2. the value of HR is not in accordance with the HR in the legend. In the 4 th line of the Discussion there is a mistake with the Ref. 3., this most probably is the Ref. 5. Similarly, in the 18 th line of the Discussion the Ref. 6. most probably is the Ref. 8. In conclusion, this study yielded clinically very interesting results that might have therapeutic consequence, however, these results need to be confirmed in a much larger cohort of colorectal patients. All in all, in my opinion this manuscript is acceptable for indexation, but only after corrections and completions based on the above mentioned comments.