This paper provides a complete and detailed recipe for calculating evolutionary rates and structural features of residues in proteins, and for correlating site-specific evolutionary rates with structural features. Such analysis is important for better understanding of protein structure-evolution relationships at the residue level. This paper describes all the computational steps in detail including the required computer programs and their installation, provides scripts to run the different programs and to process the results, and introduces a repository with all the scripts. This paper very clearly explains the steps needed to fully perform such analyses. The computational pipeline provided is expected to become a useful resource to the scientific community. This paper could potentially benefit from addressing a few minor issues described below. 1. While the paper aims to describe a complete analysis, the initial step of how to properly collect protein sequences for subsequent evolutionary analyses is not described. For the sake of completeness and to help interested readers to perform such analyses from scratch, it will be beneficial to at least mention this step (and preferably provide a more detailed description). 2. A full and automated procedure for analyzing relative amino acid rates already exists with the ConSurf server. At the same time, the second protocol described in this paper can be especially useful for site-specific codon rate calculations, which is not included in ConSurf. It will be beneficial to provide more context regarding other available procedures and how the procedure described in this paper complements these other available procedures. 3. It will be beneficial to include the scripts for normalizing the inferred relative rates as well as for finding the sequence in the MSA with smallest number of gaps. These steps are described in the paper but it appears that the corresponding scripts are not included. 4. The file name of the output for Step 1 of Protocol 4 (pdb_id.map.csv) is not described in the text. 5. It is unclear how the order of the lines in the output pdb_id.rates_features.csv is decided. Because this is the final output of the entire analysis, it will be useful to organize this output as clearly as possible. 