In the current manuscript, the authors present the first draft genome assembly for the argan tree Argania spinosa , a tree with significant ecological as well as commercial importance. The authors have used a hybrid assembly approach, combing data from both Illumina short-reads and PacBio long-reads technology. Use of such hybrid approaches is welcome, as they can combine the advantages offered by different technological platforms. Based on a k-mer analysis, the authors also provide a reasonable estimate of the genome-size and the level of heterozygosity. These are important metrics to report, as they can guide the methods to be used for genome assembly, as well as for interpretation of the assembled genome sequence. The draft genome has been satisfactorily assembled, using state of the art computational methods, and it contains 89% of the predicted core genes as defined in the BUSCO software. It is hoped that in their future studies, the authors will follow up with more improvements to the draft genome, including gene annotations using transcriptomic data. Overall, manuscript provides valuable information and sequence resources that will be useful to the scientific community. I have only 1 major and 6 minor comments/suggestions that I think the authors should be able to address. Major reservation: 1. Both Illumina as well as PacBio reads have been processed and trimmed before being used as an input to the MaSuRCA software. However, the instructions for the MaSuRCA software explicitly ask for NOT using any third-party tools, or performing any trimming, cleaning or error correction on Illumina reads, as it will most likely lead to a deteriorated assembly (See https://github.com/alekseyzimin/masurca#overview). It is therefore strongly suggested that the authors try an assembly with the raw Illumina reads directly, as it might lead to a better assembly. If such an analysis was already performed but the assembly was worse than the current version, please provide this information in the manuscript. Minor comment/suggestion: 1. For PacBio data, please specify the form of processed reads that were input to the MaSuRCA software: were they the raw PacBio reads, or the Circular Consensus Sequence (CCS) reads? 2. The authors report that the genomic DNA was size-selected for fragments above 2kb. What was the approximate maximum size of input DNA for PacBio library preparation. Also, what was the maximum size of PacBio reads (e.g after the CCS step) ? 3. The raw coverage obtained from Illumina data is reported as 160X. But as per my calculations, based on number of trimmed bases in table 1 and a estimated genome size of 573 Mb, I obtain 135,539,587,270 / 573,000,000 = 236X. Please correct or explain further. 4. In addition to the observed heterozygosity, the repeat content of the genome could be an important reason for a fragmented assembly. The k-mer analysis can also be used to estimate the % of genome that is comprised of repeats. It will be great if this estimate is provided. 5. For the BUSCO analysis, the authors report using the Arabidopsis lineage-specific orthologous groups. However, from the BUSCO manual, the only valid value for the lineage parameter seems to be “embryophyta_odb9”, which internally uses Arabidopsis hmms for Augustus-based gene predictions, but the member proteins are form multiple species. If this is the lineage parameter the authors used, please specifiy it as “embryophyta_odb9” rather than Arabidopsis, or provide more details on how the Arabidopsis BUSCO groups were determined. 6. The genome sequences of the organelles mitochondria and chloroplast are also very important in investigating the biology of any species, and also serve as important resource for evolutionary and phylogenetic studies. Therefore, it will be great if instead of completely removing the organellar genomes, the authors provide them as separate set of sequences, in separate files and ideally as separate GenBank entries. 