Methodologically, this study is sound although it should be noted that, with respect to intracranial volume (ICV) estimations, there was apparently no correction for height and weight (a flaw in the Ruigrok et al, 2014 review which these authors themselves acknowledge). Matching of participants for levels of education is also a welcome addition to standard practice. My substantive comments are confined to observations on the disconnect between the findings as reported in the paper itself and those inferred in the abstract (and indeed in the title of the paper). The paper is entitled Sex differences in cortical and subcortical human brain anatomy and the abstract includes the sentence; Significant sex differences were observed. Yet if we look at what was actually found, at the very least the abstract should report very few significant sex differences were observed and, by rights, the paper should be entitled: On the failure to find sex differences Or Few sex differences in cortical and subcortical human brain anatomy A brief summary of the results of the search for sex differences follows: Looking at whole hemisphere sex differences in cortical thickness, area and folding, it is reported that there were no sex differences in thickness and folding, and a correlation with area was reduced to a trend when there was a correction for ICV (pg. 6). Looking at sex differences in cranial structures there were no differences in thickness and folding (pg. 6) There were sex differences in frontal lobe area (MF), but no area differences at the parcel level in any lobe (pg. 6) and no significant sex by hemisphere interactions in any parcel in any lobe in thickness, area or BED (pg. 7) Of the 7 subcortical structures, only the amygdala showed significant sex differences ( MF). The authors acknowledge in their discussion Sex differences are generally small in the current study (pg.7 ) and that effect sizes were small (pg8) and even our sex difference results resemble those of researchers who found that individual difference in overall brain size explain far more variance in brain anatomy that do residual difference due to sex. (pg. 8). On balance, the findings of this paper are that there are very few, if any, substantive, sex differences and, when appropriate corrections are made, these may well disappear. I would draw the authors (and indeed any readers) attention to the coverage of this type of issue raised in a recent paper from our group (Rippon et al. , 2014). My concerns are that, given the title and the claims in the Abstract, this paper will be taken as an addition to the body of evidence proving that there are reliably identifiable differences between the brains of females and males. I think the authors should be invited to recast their paper to acknowledge the difficulties they have encountered in demonstrating any Sex Differences in cortical and subcortical human brain anatomy. 