The authors present the results of a small retrospective case series of children with systemic lupus studied by Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring (ABPM). Their major finding is that these patients have blunted nocturnal BP dipping, which has been associated with adverse cardiovascular risk. This is a novel finding that while needing to be confirmed in a larger, prospective study, could have major implications for the clinical management of children with SLE. One issue that requires clarification is how the authors characterize the study population. In several places in the paper they state that the SLE patients dont have nephritis, but in reality, about half had a history of nephritis. The authors should restate the description of the SLE patients to clarify that these children were not currently being treated for active nephritis. There are actually some interesting differences in the children with and without a history of nephritis that could be explored in more detail - for example, the ABPM parameters in Table 2 could be further divided into groups of those with and without a history of nephritis. How would that division then affect the results of the other analyses performed? Another major issue that requires greater exploration is the effect of prednisone treatment on BP dipping. All of the SLE patients were on prednisone and it is likely that this affected the dipping patterns. This needs to be explicitly acknowledged in the discussion, and some discussion of prior studies (if they exist) exploring the effect of corticosteroids on the circadian variation of BP needs to be added. Minor suggestions: add the number of subjects to the abstract (it only gives the number of non-SLE controls) shorten the introduction by 50% (first 2 paragraphs and the first 2/3 of the third paragraph could be deleted) I dont think the sensitivity analysis adds anything; this could probably be deleted as well it is unlikely that specific laboratory findings would affect BP outcomes, could some of this information be removed as well? 