This study addresses the important question whether children with epilepsy who have mental health difficulties are appropriately identified and managed. It concludes that there is “ inconsistency and inadequacy of mental health provision for children and young people with epilepsy ”. In the discussion the authors add “This study revealed that the majority of young people with mental health needs in epilepsy services were not receiving any intervention” and that “a large gap in mental health provision exists within this group”. The authors mention the “inadequacy” of some of the interventions received by some of the 16 children. The study was conducted in 6 different paediatric epilepsy clinics, covering a large geographical area over 6 months; therefore should be well placed to address the issue of possible variability and inconsistency in accessing mental health services and treatments provided. However, there are some limitations to the methodology of this study that may influence the conclusions the authors have reached. Methodology Sample bias: The study was conducted as part of a feasibility study carried out in paediatric epilepsy clinics. Not all children with epilepsy in the UK are seen in a paediatric epilepsy clinic, there is a proportion of children with epilepsy (in the UK these usually are children with less complex epilepsy) that are seen by general paediatricians. Therefore, it should be clear that the findings apply to a selected population of children with epilepsy (probably children with more complex epilepsy). The authors made this clear in the abstract, but because the frequency of mental health problems is higher in children with epilepsy who have other neurological conditions or changes in the MRI than in children with less complex epilepsy, I think it would be worth marking this point in the discussion. The next issue is that we are told that the SDQ was completed as part of routine practice and that there were 121 SDQs that screened positive. It would be useful to know the total number of patients and the percentage of SDQs completed out of the total number of patients. It could be that not all potential participants completed the SDQ. If the ones that did not complete the SDQ are the parents whose children had mental health problems and are receiving appropriate treatment. I must say that, from a clinician’s perspective this explanation seems unlikely, but the paper is research and therefore this possibility needs to be mentioned as a limitation because it will affect the conclusions reached. The next issue is that of 121 cases with positive screen in the SDQ only 46 completed the DAWBA. It is impossible to know why more than 50% of parents did not complete it. Could it be because at least some of them are receiving treatment and are improving? If these were the case it would certainly affect the conclusions. It may not be possible to know this now, but this should be mentioned in the discussion as a limitation. Discussion There is not a section regarding limitations of the study and, in my opinion, there should be, with the conclusions reviewed taking into account the limitations. The authors talk about the inadequacy of some of the interventions received by the 16 children. They take NICE guidelines as “gold standard”. Although, in my opinion, this is a good starting point, there are many disorders for which NICE does not have specific recommendations and, even if there was a guideline for a condition, we do not treat conditions, we treat children. Therefore, one cannot conclude that a treatment given was “inadequate” without knowing much more about that particular child, family and other factors that may influence the decision regarding treatment offered… Suggestions The study will benefit from a limitations section in the discussion and reviewing /curtailing their conclusions in the light of these. 