This position paper addresses the current state of computational science (the term is not defined, but appears to mean the use of computational models as an essential means of scientific investigation). As the author says, "the central question in computational science is: why should we trust the results of a non-trivial computation?". At the moment, the answer appears to be: "we probably shouldnt", clearly an unsatisfactory state of affairs. This is a point which has been made before, and the paper references a number of previous attempts to come to grips with it. The authors own approach is based on the introduction of an interesting conceptual distinction: between models and tools. It is then argued that many of the problems in todays computational science arise because of "blurring the distinction". That the distinction is not unproblematic is illustrated by the following difficulty. On page 4, tools are defined to be "both physical objects and mathematical theorems or procedures (e.g. calculus or algebra)". Later, we read: "the conclusion of a scientific study needs to be independent of a specific tool to deserve the name ". On the previous page, however, we have the example of a description of the solar system as a set of differential equations. This seems to be crucially dependent on calculus. Is it therefore not scientific? As this example shows, the paper is sure to provide food for thought and for debate. We find that it does contribute to highlighting and clarifying the problems we encounter in computational science, and as such it deserves to be published and to reach a wider audience. There is one error which must be corrected before that, however: namely, on page 3, where the functions "sin" and "cos" are said to be uncomputable, by virtue of being transcendent. In fact, it is well known that they are computable (as are all functions that can be expressed by power series, which is one of the examples in Turings 1936 paper). If the author has a different notion of computability in mind, then it should be stated explicitly. (See the labels [Approx0], [Approx1] and [Approx2] below for some more details.) Another somewhat strange statement (but not an error) is that "heuristic methods that involve random choices [...] do not produce a unique result for a given input and therefore do not qualify as scientific models". One would think that they do, in fact, produce a unique result: namely a probability distribution, and that computer simulations can be used to sample this distribution to whatever precision necessary. There are, additionally, a number of infelicities which might be addressed before publication, such anthropomorphic expressions ("computers help with collecting..., evaluating, ..., and communicating" instead of "computers are used for collecting ..., evaluating, ..., and communicating"), or the less-than-helpful figure 1, which does not seem to bring anything over its one line description in the caption. Some detailed comments: Abstract: "As a consequence, these crucial pieces of information have disappeared from the scientific record." We suggest some reformulation. It is not that they have first been there and later "disappeared" but rather they were absent all along and now (with more complexity developing) they are increasingly difficult (or impossible) to generate from what is in "the scientific record". [Approx0] "But this solution contains transcendental functions (sines and cosines), which are not computable and therefore must be replaced by computable approximations, e.g. power-series expansions." Reformulate: perhaps move the text from [Approx2] up and reformulate. "... there are known algorithms that can find ... in finite time to any specified precision." [Approx1] "they cannot make predictions that are immediately comparable to observed data": All observed data is of finite precision so it can be claimed that comparing model results to observed data is often (but not always) feasible. "The very fact that a program runs and produces results proves that the model specification is complete and unambiguous, ..." The semantics of some languages (like C) is ambiguous (non-deterministic). "... the importance of correctly identifying, understanding and documenting approximations." We strongly agree with this part and think it would be worth pointing to interval arithmetic as one way to handle this problem. [Approx2] "It is even a computable model in the sense of computability theory, in that there are known algorithms that can find the global minimum in finite time to any specified precision." Note that this looks inconsistent within the paper: earlier (at [Approx0]) you claim that sin and cos are not computable, but with this definition they are. It would be preferable to skip "of course" here: "This doesnt mean of course that knowledge is lost rapidly." := "This doesnt mean that knowledge is lost rapidly." "tools that very similar in spirit" := "tools that are very similar in spirit". 