The mismatch negativity (MMN) represents the cortical response to sound deviance in an otherwise uniform stimulation. This component of auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) has gained large interest in clinical neurophysiology. In order to understand underlying cortical mechanisms of the MMN, it is of great importance to further establish animal models that allow, for example, investigation into the effects of pharmacological interventions on MMN generation. Given this, the study of Gurevicius and co-workers addresses an important issue of clinical neurophysiology. In their study, AEPs in response to standard tones and deviants were recorded from the hippocampus and parietal cortex of awake, freely moving rats. However, as a main finding, a MMN-like signal could not be observed. Overall, I think the study would benefit from a clearer description of the relation between MMN findings in humans and animals, a clearer outline of the study purpose, the clarification of some methodological details, re-calculation of the amplitude values, and some stronger focus on significant results (rather than on null-findings). I have the following additional comments: The relation between human and animal MMN data is not sufficiently described: Invasive AEP recordings in humans did not reveal any evidence that the MMN is generated in the hippocampus ( Halgren et al., 1995 ; Kropotov et al., 1995 ; 2000 ; McCarthy et al., 1989 ; Rosburg et al., 2007 ). In contrast, MMN-like signals in humans have been recorded from the temporal cortex ( Kropotov et al., 1995 ; 2000 ) and in some few instances also from the frontal cortex ( Rosburg et al., 2005 ). Consequently, I find it a little surprising that the authors did not observe a MMN-like hippocampal signal in rats. Moreover, it is not fully clear to me whether the authors doubt the value of other, already established animal models on MMN generation, like the mice model of Umbricht et al. ( 2005 ) or the cat model of Csepe et al. ( 1987 ). The study is entitled as “ Short- and long-term habituation… ”, and indeed much space is dedicated to the description on how the recorded AEPs varied from one recording day to the next or from one experiment to the next. However, it is not evident what the authors actually mean by ‘short-term’ and ‘long-term’. In human recordings, ‘short-term decrement’ is usually conceptualized as response decrease from one stimulus to the next. For this kind of decrement, it has been argued that it reflects a consequence of refractoriness (rather than a process of habituation) ( Barry et al., 1992 ; Budd et al., 1998 ; Rosburg et al. , 2004 ; 2006 ; 2010 ; 2013 ). However, Gurevicius and co-workers did not assess this kind of response decrements, concentrating exclusively on different forms of long-term decrement. Such long-term decrements might reflect a process of habituation, albeit further studies are warranted to support this notion ( Rosburg et al., 2002). In consequence, the title of the study should be modified. Furthermore, I propose that the term ‘long-term decrement’ should be used, rather than ‘long-term habituation’. The authors present only exemplary AEP data, but no grand average data. Since the statistics are based on group data, the grand average AEP data need to be depicted (at least across experiment 1). Full evaluation of the study is not possible on the basis of exemplary data. Moreover, there are a couple of technical details that require clarification: (a) The morphology of the depicted AEPs in the hippocampal and cortical recordings look rather similar. Based on the study of Ruusuvirta et al. ( 2013 ), I would have expected to find clear phase differences between the two recording sites. (b) Related to this issue, the choice of the active and reference electrode sites needs to be justified. Is the parietal electrode assumed to record activity from the auditory cortex? Is the frontal reference electrode assumed to be electrically silent for auditory stimulation? (c) Only analog filtering of the recordings (1-1000 Hz) is mentioned. Were data additionally offline-filtered? (d) The authors mention that some recordings were excluded due to “poor signal” (p.2). What were the exact criteria for excluding data? (e) The authors do not describe how the data were screened for artefacts and how artefacts were handled. (f) According to the text, Table 1 refers to correlations between peak latency values. Is this really the case? Moreover, it is not clear on what data Tables 1 and 2 are based. Finally, the peak labels in Table 1 do not correspond to the labels used in the rest of the study. (g) The authors should describe how the stimulus intensity was measured. The N40, P60, and P110 peaks were defined as maximum deviations from the baseline. This kind of quantification introduces a bias for obtaining higher (absolute) amplitude values for AEPs to deviants than to standards because the noise levels affect peak amplitude measures (the maximum peak amplitude is increased by the overlying noise signal, and the noise level decreases with the number of trials, used for calculating the AEP). Thus, the peaks should be quantified as mean amplitudes instead. Moreover, the authors should not imply the existence of differences when the statistical analysis revealed non-significant results (e.g. “ the P110 showed a similar, but non-significant trend [F(2,6) = 1.9, p = 0.24] ”, p. 4). Scopolamine had no differential effect on the AEPs to standards and deviants, but scopolamine resulted in general reductions of AEP components (N40, P60). However, the current study cannot differentiate whether this effect is due to peripheral or central effects of the drug. In human recordings, scopolamine administration often leads to delayed AEP responses, in particular of the N100 (e.g. Pekkonen et al., 2005 ), but not to an amplitude reduction. One study even described an enhancement of middle-latency auditory evoked neuromagnetic fields ( Jskelainen et al. , 1999 ). This divergence between human and animal data should be discussed. There were some AEP differences between standards and deviants in the 2 nd experiment. For evaluation, these differences should be depicted as waveform. 