Given the growing problem of antibiotic resistance across bacterial pathogens, Multi Drug Resistant (MDR) transporters are an intrinsically important group of bacterial proteins. However, unlike other resistance protein families where precise characterization is possible (i.e. B-lactamases), and while we can often "see" MDR transporters in bacterial genomes due to sequence similarity, it is nearly impossible at the present time to accurately annotate what antibiotic substrates these transporters act on. As genome sequences pile up, and whole genome sequences begin to be used to predict drug resistances/sensitivities in clinical settings, the it becomes increasingly important to accurately describe the roles of MDR transporter complexes. The article from McDermott et al . focuses on using grammar based alignment free approaches in order to predict and classify MDR protein complexes, and develops a program called PILGram for this purpose. The authors do a good job of describing the problem they are addressing throughout the introduction, and giving examples of the utility of grammar based approaches to an audience that is likely not well versed in these analyses. Realistically, the results are not exceptional. The model does a great job of predicting ser/thr phosphatase patterns, but current approaches using similarity based searches do a pretty good job as well. The model does slightly worse than conventional methods with the prediction of zinc-fingers, likely because of their unstructured nature, but taking the consensus using grammar based approaches is still on par with other widely used methods. The authors dont improve on predictions for these two classes with grammar based methods, but they provide a good demonstration that such models can work on par with conventional analyses. I think its important to develop both sequence based and sequence independent approaches and that these go hand in hand rather than act in a mutually exclusive way. The rubber meets the road when the authors try to predict novel MDR classes, and the results are not great. While numerically, the data seems to show that PILGram is able to be trained to identify MDR transporters with levels of accuracy above randomness, it misses a lot. On the other hand, so do conventional analyses, which is what makes this an interesting problem to tackle. Moreover, the authors use a metagenomic dataset (nicely done by the way, I wasnt expecting that) to try and predict novel MDR transporters. The data do suggest that PILGram can pick up something of a signal within these metagenomes compared to a soil sample, which is encouraging. However, Im left with a bit of an unenthusiastic taste in my mouth when I see the table of "high confidence novel transporter proteins" and 3 of the 5 are annotated as some kind of transporters, and the other two are FtsH and a related protein. The authors do point out that its likely that at least one of these is a true positive (my guess, its not either of the last two), but it would be good in the discussion if the authors could further flesh out what differentiates the data that PILGram is giving you from simply looking through the annotations for "transporter" proteins given that 3 of 5 are likely transporting something based on the JGI annotation. Said more plainly, it would be good if the authors could describe what PILGram is telling them about the first three genes in table 4 that the annotations dont. I think this would really wrap the story up better. My overall impression is that this is a solid paper, albeit without really exceptional results. However, utilization of these sequence alignment independent grammar models and pipelines and descriptions for how they behave on real world data is a step forward and therefore worthy of being published. The data is solid, and the authors do a good job of describing the limitations. We need anything and everything possible to be able to predict MDR proteins given the large amounts of genome data that are going to be piling up. PILGram will only get better with larger training sets. Slight side note...Im wondering whether glc-1 from C.elegans should be included in the training set for the "Prediction of multi-drug resistance transporters dataset" table. Seems weird to me given that these are bacterial proteins.