In this paper, the authors aim to investigate the effect of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy associated mutations MYH7C 9123T and ACTC1 G301A on Ca 2+ transients using hiPSCs- derived cardiomyocytes. To this end, the authors established hiPSCs reporters by introducing a CAG promotor-controlled calcium indicator (R-GECO1.0) into the AAVS1 locus through CRISPR/Cas9 nickase-mediated genome editing. Among 24 clones, 20 were found to successfully express the transgene with variation from about 0 to 99.5%. Upon differentiation to cardiomyocytes, even clones with high expression levels demonstrated significant silencing of the transgene to 13.03% or 1.33%. By creating also an AAVS1 targeted doxycycline inducible HOXA9-T2A-mScarlet iPSCs reporter, the authors investigated the silencing over the time course during mesoderm lineage commitment. It was shown that both mRNA and protein levels of the transgenes were relatively high on day 2 and abruptly decreased from day 4 during both cardiomyocyte and hematopoietic differentiation. Despite the silencing of R-GECO1.0 in the AAVS1 locus, Ca 2+ live image by confocal laser line scan microscopy at the single cell level detected abnormal Ca 2+ transients in cardiomyocytes derived from hiPSCs reporters harboring MYH7C or ACTC1 mutation s compared to wildtype or isogenic control. In addition, this abnormality could be rescued by pharmacological inhibiting intercellular level of Na+ and Ca 2+ . This study shows that iPSC reporter line is of importance for disease modelling. This study presented an important issue in AAVS1 -targeted transgene expression in iPSCs and mesoderm lineage although the mechanisms for the silencing are not clear. The variable expression and silencing in mesoderm differentiation shown here are in line with previous reports that the AAVS1 is not a true safe harbor for cells differentiated to hematopoietic cells (e.g. PMID: 31773990) and endoderm (e.g. PMID: 26455413); and, hence, the findings are not fully novel. Specific comments: The authors did not mention why for they compared wild-type ( MYH7 WT/WT ), heterozygous ( MYH7 WT/MUT ) and homozygous ( MYH7 MUT/MUT ) for the c. MYH7 C9123T mutation, but no homozygous mutant line for ACTC1 G301A . In Fig 2A, the expression of R-GECO in ACTC1 WT/MUT clones (1/5 with about 50% cells) was lower than in ACTC1 WT/WT clones. Is this chance or due to the mutation? In Fig 2A, it would be better to show R-GECO in red and OCT4 in green to retain consistency with other images. In Fig 3C, immunostaining in the upper images showed R-GECO in red while in the lower ones R-GECO is stained in green, which is difficult to follow. It is interesting to see that puromycin enrichment of the iPSCs over 3 passages increased R-GECO1.0 expression in MYH7 MUT/MUT 15, did the author also tried puromycin enrichment in MYH7 WT/MUT ? In the introduction, the authors mention that a doxycycline-inducible HOXA9-T2A-mScarlet cassette targeted in the AAVS1 locus of hiPSCs is used for modulating HOXA9 during hematopoietic differentiation. However, this iPSC reporter is also used for cardiomyocyte differentiation (Fig 4A). It is unclear whether there is specific reason why this reporter line is used instead of AAVS1 -CAG R-GECO iPSCs. It is better to present RTqPCR result using a ∆Ct method for Fig. 4 as fold changes are confusing especially in the context of transgene expression (the biological relevance of fold change is unclear unless one knows the base line transcript levels before gene activation). In Fig 6 - Western Blot (Extended data), to test the peptide cleavage of P2A and T2A, the authors state that P2A is less efficient than T2A, as NpHR expression (following a P2A) was barely visible. The authors should provide positive control to exclude that the antibody for NpHR did not work. Southern blots should be performed to make sure that clones tested in this study were targeted in the corrected locus, and silencing was not due to random integration. 