The authors of “Oral mucositis patients undergoing radiotherapy for head and neck cancer: An observational cross-sectional study” reported the occurrence of oral mucositis in 50 patients undergoing radiotherapy for head and neck cancer in Iraq. They estimated the incidence of oral mucositis and the related grade (assessed by WHO scale) by age, gender, type of tumor, type of therapy and smoking habit. The study is interesting but I have some suggestions to improve the clarity of the paper and the impact of the results and their interpretation: Risk factors: why do the authors provide specific analysis for smoker patients and not for drinkers or for those with viral infections? Exclusion criteria: how many patients were excluded from 30 th April to 10 th September 2017? Data collection: it is not clear how they collect data (they asked patients to fill in a questionnaire, they extract data from medical records, …). Table 1: there are not only patients' demographic data (change title); add p value description in the text; 86% of men where smokers and 43% of women (change phrase in the text and modify in the Discussion). Occurrence of OM by age: the suggestion is described 15-44, 45-65 and ≥65 years old. Table 2: it is not clear if p value 0.355 refers to OM or in Grade III OM for smoker/non smoker; it could be more informative to show % of OM in every type of tumor (17/18=94,4% of OM in nasopharynx patients, 1/11=9,1% in larynx patients…). Figure 3: clarify the meaning of x-axis; the meaning is, for example: 3 patients broke treatment after 6 weeks from the first RT? Table 3: are the authors sure that the only reason to break treatment is OM? In the Discussion they reported: “that in most of the times the break is decided by patients themselves”. This aspect needs to be more detailed: how many times does it happen? In which way did they break the treatment? Was OM the only reason for breaking the treatment? All differences by sub groups are not significant (add a comment in the text). Recommendations: are not related with results reported in the article (especially for n. 2 and 3). In general, the English needs to be revised. 