Drs. Chaponnier and Gabbiani report production and validation of monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize alpha-skeletal muscle actin (aSKA) or alpha-cardiac alpha actin (aCAA), which are different only in a few amino acids at the N-terminus. The new antibody against aSKA (10D2) is IgG2a, while anti-aCAA (22D3) is IgG1, which allows researchers to perform double staining in immunohistochemistry to distinguish these closely related actin isoforms. The validation in immunohistochemistry using rat tissues clearly demonstrates specific labeling of different subsets of cells by the isoform-specific antibodies. These antibodies should be outstanding resources to characterize actin isoform expression and subcellular localization in muscle development, regeneration, and diseases, as well as to investigate functions of actin isoforms. I have a few suggestions for a revision mostly for clarification purposes. In abstract and introduction, “higher vertebrates” should be more clearly defined. Classification of six actin isoforms in 3 subgroups applies to mammals and birds. It should be useful for researchers who use non-mammalian or non-avian species to state whether this classification applies to other vertebrates. A recent analysis by Gunning et al . 1 indicates that zebrafish has 10 muscle actins, suggesting some gene duplications and isoform divergence in fish. Page 3, left column, 3 rd paragraph, “sarcomers” should be “sarcomeres”. In Materials and Methods “Antibody production and details”, this section should also include description of how the monoclonal antibodies were prepared after the clonal selection has been completed, which should include whether the antibodies were finally prepared in culture media with or without serum or in ascites, and whether protein concentrations were determined. Also In Materials and Methods “Antibody production and details”, the selection process includes screening using Western blotting using extracts from several different tissues. To improve transparency of the validation process, representative images of the Western blots preferably showing a wide molecular weight range should be included to demonstrate specificity. References 1. Gunning PW, Ghoshdastider U, Whitaker S, Popp D, et al.: The evolution of compositionally and functionally distinct actin filaments. J Cell Sci . 2015; 128 (11): 2009-19 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Ono S. Reviewer Report For: Monoclonal antibodies against muscle actin isoforms: epitope identification and analysis of isoform expression by immunoblot and immunostaining in normal and regenerating skeletal muscle [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :416 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8771.r13217 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-416/v1#referee-response-13217 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 01 Jun 2016 Christine Chaponnier , University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland 01 Jun 2016 Author Response Your careful review and suggestions for improving the report are highly appreciated. Please find below our answers to your questions. a) We have modified the abstract accordingly. ... Continue reading Your careful review and suggestions for improving the report are highly appreciated. Please find below our answers to your questions. a) We have modified the abstract accordingly. b) Concerning the amino acid sequences in zebrafish, the situation is very confusing. Search in databases gives the following results: Actin, alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q6DHS1-1 Ac-DDEESTALVC Actin, alpha cardiac muscle 1 [Danio rerio] Q6IQR3-1 Ac-DDDETTALVC Actin, alpha 1, skeletal muscle Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q9I8V1-1 Ac-DDEETTALVC According to the available sequence (although not reviewed), the N-terminus sequence of alpha 1, skeletal muscle in Zebrafish is identical to the alpha cardiac actin in mammals and birds!!! Furthermore, the N-terminus of alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta and of alpha cardiac muscle are different compared to the α-SMA and α-CAA human and bird sequence. sarcomers changed for sarcomeres. Additional informations have been included in the "Material and Methods" section. Yes the final antibody is obtained and used in “hybridoma supernatant” in the culture media with FCS for two reasons: a) Ascites production is not allowed in Switzerland for years. b) Hybridoma supernatants production is anyway privileged, as ascites are very often contaminated with unrelated antibodies with production time. c) Protein concentration was not determined precisely (in general, between 0.1-10 μg/ml). However, the dilution to be used is indicated in the report. We provide a new figure (Supplemental figure 1), with raw data of Western blots on different tissue extracts, showing the specificity of the antibodies. Your careful review and suggestions for improving the report are highly appreciated. Please find below our answers to your questions. a) We have modified the abstract accordingly. b) Concerning the amino acid sequences in zebrafish, the situation is very confusing. Search in databases gives the following results: Actin, alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q6DHS1-1 Ac-DDEESTALVC Actin, alpha cardiac muscle 1 [Danio rerio] Q6IQR3-1 Ac-DDDETTALVC Actin, alpha 1, skeletal muscle Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q9I8V1-1 Ac-DDEETTALVC According to the available sequence (although not reviewed), the N-terminus sequence of alpha 1, skeletal muscle in Zebrafish is identical to the alpha cardiac actin in mammals and birds!!! Furthermore, the N-terminus of alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta and of alpha cardiac muscle are different compared to the α-SMA and α-CAA human and bird sequence. sarcomers changed for sarcomeres. Additional informations have been included in the "Material and Methods" section. Yes the final antibody is obtained and used in “hybridoma supernatant” in the culture media with FCS for two reasons: a) Ascites production is not allowed in Switzerland for years. b) Hybridoma supernatants production is anyway privileged, as ascites are very often contaminated with unrelated antibodies with production time. c) Protein concentration was not determined precisely (in general, between 0.1-10 μg/ml). However, the dilution to be used is indicated in the report. We provide a new figure (Supplemental figure 1), with raw data of Western blots on different tissue extracts, showing the specificity of the antibodies. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 01 Jun 2016 Christine Chaponnier , University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland 01 Jun 2016 Author Response Your careful review and suggestions for improving the report are highly appreciated. Please find below our answers to your questions. a) We have modified the abstract accordingly. ... Continue reading Your careful review and suggestions for improving the report are highly appreciated. Please find below our answers to your questions. a) We have modified the abstract accordingly. b) Concerning the amino acid sequences in zebrafish, the situation is very confusing. Search in databases gives the following results: Actin, alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q6DHS1-1 Ac-DDEESTALVC Actin, alpha cardiac muscle 1 [Danio rerio] Q6IQR3-1 Ac-DDDETTALVC Actin, alpha 1, skeletal muscle Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q9I8V1-1 Ac-DDEETTALVC According to the available sequence (although not reviewed), the N-terminus sequence of alpha 1, skeletal muscle in Zebrafish is identical to the alpha cardiac actin in mammals and birds!!! Furthermore, the N-terminus of alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta and of alpha cardiac muscle are different compared to the α-SMA and α-CAA human and bird sequence. sarcomers changed for sarcomeres. Additional informations have been included in the "Material and Methods" section. Yes the final antibody is obtained and used in “hybridoma supernatant” in the culture media with FCS for two reasons: a) Ascites production is not allowed in Switzerland for years. b) Hybridoma supernatants production is anyway privileged, as ascites are very often contaminated with unrelated antibodies with production time. c) Protein concentration was not determined precisely (in general, between 0.1-10 μg/ml). However, the dilution to be used is indicated in the report. We provide a new figure (Supplemental figure 1), with raw data of Western blots on different tissue extracts, showing the specificity of the antibodies. Your careful review and suggestions for improving the report are highly appreciated. Please find below our answers to your questions. a) We have modified the abstract accordingly. b) Concerning the amino acid sequences in zebrafish, the situation is very confusing. Search in databases gives the following results: Actin, alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q6DHS1-1 Ac-DDEESTALVC Actin, alpha cardiac muscle 1 [Danio rerio] Q6IQR3-1 Ac-DDDETTALVC Actin, alpha 1, skeletal muscle Danio rerio (Zebrafish) (Brachydanio rerio) Q9I8V1-1 Ac-DDEETTALVC According to the available sequence (although not reviewed), the N-terminus sequence of alpha 1, skeletal muscle in Zebrafish is identical to the alpha cardiac actin in mammals and birds!!! Furthermore, the N-terminus of alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta and of alpha cardiac muscle are different compared to the α-SMA and α-CAA human and bird sequence. sarcomers changed for sarcomeres. Additional informations have been included in the "Material and Methods" section. Yes the final antibody is obtained and used in “hybridoma supernatant” in the culture media with FCS for two reasons: a) Ascites production is not allowed in Switzerland for years. b) Hybridoma supernatants production is anyway privileged, as ascites are very often contaminated with unrelated antibodies with production time. c) Protein concentration was not determined precisely (in general, between 0.1-10 μg/ml). However, the dilution to be used is indicated in the report. We provide a new figure (Supplemental figure 1), with raw data of Western blots on different tissue extracts, showing the specificity of the antibodies. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Skalli O. Reviewer Report For: Monoclonal antibodies against muscle actin isoforms: epitope identification and analysis of isoform expression by immunoblot and immunostaining in normal and regenerating skeletal muscle [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :416 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8771.r13310 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-416/v1#referee-response-13310 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 11 Apr 2016 Omar Skalli , Department of Biological Sciences, Integrated Microscopy Center(IMC), University of Memphis, Memphis, TN, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8771.r13310 The paper by Chaponnier and Gabbiani reports the production of two monoclonal antibodies, one specific for skeletal actin and the other for cardiac actin. Being able to obtain these antibodies is a momentous accomplishment given that these two actin isoforms ... Continue reading READ ALL 