search.bioPreprint is a useful tool for the scientific community and this article nicely outlines the key features and use cases for the service. A particular strength of the tool is the site maintenance and quality control by the University of Pittsburgh Health Sciences Library System. Also, the flexibility to incorporate new preprint servers due to continued site support is a benefit. The development of a bookmarklet for this purpose is novel, convenient and very useful. I have a few comments for authors to address: There is no mention in the abstract that preprints can be found through Google Scholar. While there is a temporary bug associated with Google Scholar’s treatment of subsequently published preprints (documented in the following blog posts by Dr. Wilke), preprints are indeed searchable across platforms through Google Scholar. Please mention this and note any benefits of your tool. Google Scholar is mentioned on p2 but only in the context of indexing peer reviewed publications. http://serialmentor.com/blog/2014/11/1/the-google-scholar-preprint-bug http://serialmentor.com/blog/2015/10/8/Google-Scholar-bug-redux The search results on search.bioPreprint are ordered by relevance with no option to re-sort. After some time searching using search.bioPreprint, the need to sort results by date became quickly evident. Likely, many users will be interested to know what new preprints are available across platforms since a previous search. A search term on Google Scholar followed by “preprint” and one click on the “sort by date” link produces date-sorted preprints from multiple sources (biorxiv, arrive, peerj etc). Similarly, while prepubmed.org also does not have sort functionality, the default ordering appears to be by date. I am unsure how difficult sort functionality would be to implement but some mention of this issue and any plans to implement such a feature in the future is recommended. Outside of benefits to readers, an additional benefit I can see to a cross-platform preprint search engine is that it becomes easier for journal editors to identify/solicit submission of preprints and for grant reviewers to find preprints prior to journal publication. While these are also benefits of preprints in general, which is outside the scope of this article, authors may want to include this additional motivation/rationale as these are also particular benefits of a cross-platform tool. For example, a reviewer may be more likely to read a pending publication if they don’t need to search many different sites. It seems the mention of prepubmed.org in the text is limited to a discussion of priority. Since search.bioPreprint is sold as a one-stop shop, I would have instead liked to see a concise comparison with the other cross-platform searches (prepubmed and also Google Scholar) to help users clearly identify any feature differences or benefits of using search.Biopreprint. The unique features of search.Biopreprint are described throughout the article but a concise comparison or table of features/search result data would be advantageous to readers. This article was posted on both F1000Research and bioRxiv. Interestingly, only the bioRxiv version appears as a search result on both search.bioPreprint and Google Scholar, while prepubmed finds both versions. I am curious if some modification by the quality check team would fix this problem or if there is some inherent limitation of search.bioPreprint for preprints posted on more than one server. Overall, this article clearly describes usage and features of a new tool for cross-platform preprint search that appears to have the advantages of continuous maintenance, useful topic filtering and associated bookmarklet. 