This paper makes an important contribution to the literature about engagement with botany in formal schooling. It presents a project that harnesses the enthusiasm of practicing scientists and the power of the internet to enable children (and their teachers) to learn about plants and practical science in an enabling environment. The paper presents an interesting lexical analysis of the comments of a very large sample of participating children and draws out conclusions that will be of value to those individuals who care about the botanical (and wider scientific literacy) of the next generation. I found the discussion around figure 2 and the interaction between the affective domain and cognitive domains in the context of growth particularly interesting. It complements the findings of others who have suggested that pedagogies which enhance this interaction are particularly effective and should be a focus of those of us trying to re-connect children and young people with plants and animals in the natural world. I do have some very minor suggestions for alterations to the current version of the manuscript that the authors might like to consider: Lexical analysis is not particularly common and I think therefore that it will be unfamiliar to the much of the readership of this paper. For this reason I suggest that the authors might provide a little more detail in the description of figure 1. For example, four key nodes are highlighted in the text (plants; scientist mentor; growing and experiments) but from the figure (at the resolution provided) a reader might see/infer five (plants; scientist mentor; experiment or lab project; personal pleasure in growth or plant; grow or growth; and, group or team). Perhaps a little more text to expand the methods section to explain how the four that are used were chosen (what cut off criterion was applied for example) and how these relate to the figures would be helpful. I feel that the sentence The network of comments that students made about liking most their mentor shows strong connections is a little difficult to follow and suggest that it might be helpfully re-worded to improve the clarity of the message. 