This software tool article presents the Octave/MATLAB toolbox "NOCAD" for networks analysis. NOCAD implements various standard measures on networks and their nodes (density, betweenness, centrality...). Its main novelty stands in the ``dynamical-systems-based'' tools to analyse (static) networks that it provides. This article can be seen as a companion paper of the reference 19 1 from the same authors (It could be stated somewhere in the text). The ideas implemented in the toolbox are interesting, but I feel that their presentation has to be improved. First, I suggest you get your text proof-read by a native speaker. Second, many concepts used in the manuscript should be at least briefly recalled. Third, the article lacks a detailed description of the input (in the general sense, including user interaction) of the toolbox. The basic input seems to be the incidence matrix of a directed network but, if I well understood, the toolbox allows to set input and output nodes and has network design capabilities. Another major concern is that though one of the aims of the article is to draw attention of life science researchers, it does not present clearly how the toolbox can be used on biological networks and on which kind of biological networks it can be applied. Real biological examples should be actually more than welcome in the "Use cases" section, which contains only toy examples. Without such examples, I am afraid that the article fails to draw attention of its expected audience. In particular, I am wondering in what extent the toolbox can be used on standard biological datasets, e.g., PPI networks can have thousands vertices. Please find below some detailed comments: Abstract The abstract has to be extended in order to give a better idea of the content of the article. Introduction The introduction does not reflect well what follows and the topic of the paper. You should start by briefly introducing the general ideas of dynamical analysis of networks, precise in what sense you use the term "driver node", which is sometimes used in a biological context etc. First mention of dynamical system comes at the end of the second paragraph and could be developed (e.g. by briefly recalling ideas of [7] 2 ) while biological examples may not need to be as much detailed. The description of previous software sounds good. It may take place a dedicated section. Method The method section should recall the notions of controllability and observability and the general principles of ``dynamical analysis'' (it can be brief, something like the two first subsections of the section "Results" of [19] 1 ). In the current version, I don't think that this part can be understood without reading your reference [19] 1 . You should state explicitly which are the inputs of your toolbox, the accepted formats etc. I found the paragraph about the modularity of the toolbox is not very useful. It could be shortened or even discarded. Subsection "Operation" ("Installation"?) is OK. Use cases If I well understood, the input is the incidence matrix A from which are computed the matrices B, C and D as illustrated with the first example. It should be interesting to apply the approach on a biological network, for instance a protein-protein interaction network or a regulatory network, in order to illustrate the interest of the results obtained in this context. In the second example (Figure 3), input and output nodes seem to be set arbitrarily in order to get a system complex-enough to show the function of the second module of the toolbox (incidence matrix is the same as that of the first example). Is it possible to illustrate the toolbox with an example in which the input and outputs are not fixed? I am actually concerned with the fact that the use cases do not really show how the toolbox can be used on a real dataset, which may not have natural input and outputs. Figures 4, 5 and 6 displays the results of the toolbox on the second example. These results are briefly discussed in the text which also recalls the definitions of some of the measures. Applying the toolbox on a real dataset would make the discussion of the results of the toolbox much easier to interpret. Moreover, a real dataset could provide evidence of the relevance of the results obtained by relying on the nature of nodes distinguished by the toolbox. The different types of nodes displayed in Figure 5 should be defined rather than just refer to [24] 3 . Could you please give an idea about what kind of biological networks can be studied by the means of your third module? This part is not very intuitive from a biological point of view. 