Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. Javier Monzn presents a timely and relevant study of population structure in Northeastern coyotes, which complements earlier work in this area and highlights new and intriguing research questions. The author builds on previous genomic analyses of canids with a high-density SNP chip yet a limited sample of Northeastern coyotes, and a study of northeastern coyotes that used several hundred samples but a single genetic marker. The panel of selected SNPs is biased toward the study population of Northeastern coyotes, but the author makes this very clear and includes an evaluation of ascertainment bias across canid groups included in the initial study with the high-density SNP chip from which this panel of 16 loci was selected. The article is well written, and the author has done a good job explaining the main limitations of the work and outlining why findings should be interpreted with caution. I have one suggestion on supplementary data that could be included for an additional perspective on genetic structure, and some minor comments on the manuscript text: The author describes the SNP results relative to the areas of Ohio, the contact zone and the northeast zone from Kays et al. 2010 , and in Table 2 notes that most individuals genotyped at 16 nuclear SNPs represent a subset of those individuals sequenced for mtDNA. If individual mtDNA results are available for coyotes, it would be valuable to see the extent to which the mtDNA haplotypes classified as Great Lakes wolf (or eastern wolf), coyote and gray wolf from Kays et al. 2010 (Fig 2) correspond with genetic structure based on SNPs.This would provide important information to help understand how similarities/discrepancies in genetic structure are distributed across space. The relatively low genetic diversity for coyotes in Table 3 and the results from vonHoldt et al. 2011 suggest a bias against coyotes, although coyotes may at least in some regions, have higher genetic diversity than wolves considering their range expansion and increase in population size. It might be worth noting that sequencing coyotes directly could provide a more in-depth view of genomic regions under selection. Although I agree with the authors conclusion about the utility of using a closely related and well-studied species, alternate methods such as genotyping-by-sequencing could be recommended as possibilities for future research. Introduction, 1 st sentence Historically restricted to the open deserts and plains .... Though the coyote is widely regarded as a species of western and central North America, it is difficult to exclude the possibility that it could also have been present farther east prior to European colonization and landscape modifications. Introduction, 3 rd paragraph: - The sentence Population genetic structure plays considerable roles in evolution... the splitting of one species into two if the environments are markedly different . In addition to adaptation, it may be important also to mention genetic drift, and subsequent development of incompatibilities between isolated populations. - The sentence starting with The detection of genetic structure largely depends on the type and number of molecular markers examined : Here you may want to mention explicitly the temporal resolution of markers with different mutation rates (as you have done in the Discussion). - SNPs have become a popular and inexpensive tool : perhaps increasingly affordable or similar would be better here? Discussion, 3 rd paragraph, sentence: ...cryptic genetic structure of Northeastern coyotes, especially as they have only inhabited the region for 30-80 years . The author notes earlier in the text that coyotes in the northeast zone may descend from a few founders, which likely arrived via a northern route through Ontario, whereas a second colonization front occurred farther south through Ohio. Bierne et al. 2011 proposed that intrinsic (environment-independent) genetic incompatibilities may coincide with ecological boundaries, as these environmental transition zones often the tension zones resulting from e.g. assortative mating. Such processes might be influencing the contact zone between the southern and northern colonization fronts, and interact with the selective pressures associated with forested, agricultural and urban habitat, and deer density, noted in Monzn 2012 (PhD Dissertation). 