In her hypothesis Dr. Laderoute makes her interesting case for the possible central position of innate immunity as the key for prevention of HIV infection by vaccines. She specifies that this is likely mediated by expression of specific endogenous human retroviruses, namely HERV-K 102 HML-2. She builds her arguments from several directions relying on vaccine history, specific HIV vaccine trial data, in vitro virus studies, classical virology (pseudotyping), and phylogeny. Although having much experience in adaptive immunity with monkey and clinical vaccine studies the field is not unaware of the possible importance of innate immunity, and indeed several investigators are turning in that direction. Even more, Dr. Laderoute considers endogenous retroviruses origin and evolution may be to counter exogenous retrovirus infections. Dr. Laderoute has been early in this thinking, and in general the hypothesis expressed in detail could be useful. However, there are statements that concern me, and of these the last (#5) the most troublesome. 1. Humans are not only susceptible to infection with HIV – they also can be infected with another dangerous exogenous retrovirus, HTLV-1. It would enhance the presentation of awareness if this were evident and if she could include her thinking on this for more ancient infection of man than HIV. 2. Insufficiently touched upon is the importance of T-cell activation opening doors to increased HIV infectivity due to more target cells. This may be what happened in the STEP trial that increased infections. We have argued this for many years, i.e., we need some T-cell activation for any adaptive immunity but a bit too much negates any vaccine efficacy. A second point relates to antibody longevity. The key antibodies of protection are short “lived”. That is an alternate explanation to the results of RV144 (quite good for a while but not lasting). If I may reference my two papers published in that regard some years ago are: Fouts TR, Bagley K, Prado IJ, Bobb K, Schwartz JA, Xu R, Zagursky RJ, Egan MA, Eldridge JH, LaBranche CC, Montefiori DC, Le Buanec H, Zagury D, Pal R, Pavlakis GN, Felber BK, Franchini G, Gordon S, Vaccari M, Lewis GK, DeVico AL, Gallo RC. Balance of Cellular and Humoral Immunity Determines the Level of Protection by HIV Vaccines in Rhesus Macaque Models of HIV Infection. PNAS. 2015 Feb 1 . Lewis GK, DeVico AL, Gallo RC. Antibody persistence and T-cell balance: Two key factors confronting HIV vaccine development. PNAS, vol. 111(44); pp 15614-15621, 2014 2 . 3. Discussing HERV-K as infectious (page 9) may cause confusion. Explain what you mean because infectious will suggest to some you mean in vivo – one person to another. 4. Like Dr. Fast I think the discussion of women being more protected is a little shaky. I agree in making the case but very carefully and not several times over. For example, many statistics of male infections are in gay men and HIV penetration under those circumstances is easier than via vaginal sex. 5. Most important : I spoke with some experts in the field such as Rafael Contreras-Galindo, who reminded me that the Laderoute argument for uniqueness of the K102 type 1 strain of HERV-K HML-2 is flawed in that its env gene has deletions which cause fusion of pol-env, making it improbable that it serves as pseudotyping-HIV. In this regard the author has not clearly shown the particles she sees are really K102 and not one or more other HERV-K HML-2. Moreover, others have reported a variety of HERV-K HML-2 which could create recombinants. This is the essence of a major concern of this hypothesis: namely that the K102 plays a specific role in HIV immunity. The hypothesis needs to be broadened and with recognition of this and references to the contributors to that literature, or these points need to be definitively rebutted. 