This manuscript describes a software tool called NGSEasy, which consists of a set of configured docker images for writing pipelines to call genomic variations. The manuscript addresses a need because the portability and reproducibility of bioinformatics pipelines, such as the one described in this manuscript, are very real problems faced by bioinformaticians and users of these methods. As such, the manuscript is an effort to describe an approach that could help with these challenges. Despite my interest in the manuscript, I have several reservations regarding the presentation of the results that I believe should be addressed before the manuscript is accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. These reservations are: The abstract indicates that the manuscript best practices for packaging and executing multi-component pipelines for NGS. I am very uneasy about the term best practices used in a scientific context. I believe that it is very difficult to define objectively what constitutes best practices. Asking different experts may yield different answers, and one could argue that best practices are a synonym for asking an expert about his or her opinion. I believe that the manuscript would be strengthened if it described the authors recommendations and supported each recommendation with a clear and detailed rationale (perhaps outlining alternatives that the authors have tried and eventually rejected while developing NGSEasy, and explaining the reasons to do so). While the word in the abstract suggested to me that the manuscript would describe a set of practices recommended by the authors for packaging docker containers, it appears from the Result section that no such practices are explicitly described. It is therefore possible that the authors meant to refer to a set of published practices for analysis of high-throughput sequence data. If it is the case, as suggested by the sentence at the top right of page 4, I am not sure as to what is claimed in the abstract: demonstration of published practices, or recommended practices for packaging NGS code in a docker image? The abstract and introduction define the domain of application of NGSEasy as next-generation sequencing (NGS). However, the manuscript is about methods for variant calling, which is an important, but smaller scope that the full NGS data analysis. For instance, NGSEasy does not include tools for analysis of RNA-Seq. I recommend to revise the abstract and introduction to clearly indicate the scope of the software tool. A strength of the manuscript is to use the GCAT server to evaluate the pipeline, but the results are not presented in the context of the performance of other pipelines, so the readers have no easy way of knowing if the sensitivity and specificity measures presented on page 6 are competitive. For instance, on Page 6, the manuscript claims: we have successfully Dockerized a full NGS pipleline that is capable of producing meaningful result, that are comparable with public and best practice workflows. However, there is no reference for the workflows the work is compared to and no simple way to establish if the results are comparable, let alone competitive. I strongly recommend to include a comparison directly in the manuscript to help the readers objectively assess performance. The manuscript would be strengthened by providing a discussion of the limitations of the work. For instance, it is unclear what support is provided for parallelization across nodes, rather than SMP parallelization. (Multi-node parallelization is important when more than one or two samples need to be analyzed.) I am unable to locate Reference 37 using the citation information: 37. Matzke M, Jurkschat K, Backhaus T, et al.: PrePrints PrePrints. 2014; (1): 134. . This reference is used when discussing performance of docker containers and I am unable to determine if this is appropriate. A valid reference for this point is https://peerj.com/articles/1273/ . The reference provided for Nextflow is wrong. The tool should be cited using the web site ( http://nextflow.io ) or FigShare poster, and the correct authors given credit. Minor comments: Page 3, NGSEasy contains all the basic tools needed for manipulation and quality control.. should be toned down. Using all in a manuscript is inviting contradiction. For instance, I could point out that the NGSEasy do not contain SpeedSeq, a recently published set of tools that considerably accelerates variation calling in HTS data. Therefore, I would argue that NGSEasy does not contain all the basic tools that I would like to use. Consider revising as NGSEasy contains a set of tools sufficient for manipulation and quality control.. Page 5. The word is used again (left column, 6th paragraph). I doubt that the practice, as described, eliminates all potential issues with typo, since end-users will be writing scripts using tools in the image, and I am not sure how consistent naming conventions can fully eliminate typos when writing scripts. Page 6. last paragraph, last sentence, check the grammar (missing a ?). 