In this manuscript, the authors provide introductory examples showing how to query hierarchical orthology databases in RDF format using the SPARQL query language. Although these semantic web technologies are promising for integrating various biological resources, they still seem to be utilized by only very limited researchers. In this respect, this kind of introductory paper may be helpful for more biologists to utilize these technologies. However, for this purpose, I think that this manuscript has a serious defect that it is not easily understandable unless the readers have sufficient knowledge and skills of BOTH SPARQL and homology/orthology concepts (I do not think that this article contains any specific new ideas for such experts). Therefore, the authors should add some more explanation to improve the understandability for those who are not very familiar with either of these fields in order to achieve the goal of this article. At the first example in "Data models" section (page 4), the authors should add some explanation about how to make a query based on a given RDF graph (with some figure). Such an explanation in addition to the RDF graphs of the actual databases can help understand the subsequent SPARQL codes. Here, protocols are shown for extracting three types of homology/orthology information: pairwise orthologs, homologous groups, and hierarchical orthologous groups (HOGs), but the exact definitions of the extracted information are not clearly given. Moreover, the specifications of the protocols including their purposes and outcomes are not clearly explained. In fact, all of these protocols retrieve some kinds of pairwise homology/orthology relationships of a given UniProt entry, but the differences of them are not very obvious. Therefore, it is not easy for readers to understand these protocols exactly, and even impossible to check the correctness of the code, without any appropriate explanation. Related but somewhat minor comment: homologous group considered here seems to correspond to orthologous group that contains only orthologs and in-paralogs, while I think homologous group can generally also contain out-paralogs. Most readers are probably not satisfied with just a copy-and-paste of the given examples, but want to modify them for their own purposes, so it is desirable to give some hints on how to make modifications to each query. Some codes containing double quotation marks did not work well when I did copy and paste them from the article web site, probably because these characters were converted into non-ASCII characters. In the last example, the URIs of the same UniProt entry are appeared repeatedly. Can’t you use a common variable to specify the query URI only once? 