The article gives a clear introduction to the concept of Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) acknowledging the evidence supporting the intervention and the positive impact that is has on participants lives post programme. Most importantly, it seeks to gather the opinions of significant others and professionals within the clinical team, something that is often overlooked but that could be a key component in service development. There is a clear introduction to the use of the Nominal Group Technique and its usefulness in facilitating all participants views to be gathered and the aim of providing a rank of perceived benefits and challenges in pulmonary rehabilitation is clearly stated. The authors have used the Nominal Group Technique successfully to provide a useful ranking of themes and challenges from the perspectives of patients, professionals and significant others. These are useful to challenge current assumptions within Pulmonary Rehabilitation Programmes, but the study would benefit from consideration of the socio-demographics of the group as these also impact on health related outcomes. The small sample size also makes it difficult to generalise to a wider population, something which the authors themselves acknowledge. There is also a strong male bias in the sample group, what affect did this have on the results? The data and techniques used are clearly described and well presented and are representative and reflective of findings in the clinical setting. In conclusion, going forwards further research is required to establish whether the rankings are concurrent across the country, and if so do they have a role in guiding PR and assisting patients and significant others in overcoming the perceived barriers. Many of the themes and issues identified are already known to those working within the clinical setting and are addressed through education and management within PR in the UK already. There are also assumptions in practice that patients as is stated on page 6 in the Thematic Template generation. How is this evidenced? One finding that the authors also highlight is that significant others have more time for themselves as patients become more independent therefore supporting the self management of PR; this would benefit from further exploration.