This research note presents data on the long-term recapture of seven individuals of two species of coastal sharks from the Northwest Atlantic; Rhizoprionodon terranovae , and the Carcharhinus acronotus . Based on their length at tagging, all individuals appeared to be either mature or close to maturity, but were recaptured between 7.7 and 12.8 years later. As neither species was reported to be particularly long-lived these results are interesting, and provide evidence that both species live longer than currently thought. Age was also estimated and compared in four of the samples by reading sectioned vertebrae. These data contribute to growing evidence that longevity of sharks is often underestimated when based on vertebral ageing methods, and that some aspects of elasmobranch demography that have been inferred from these studies (e.g. survival) may be biased. Im glad the authors have taken the time and effort to document these observations, as there are relatively few long-terms studies of this kind. While I think the data themselves are worthy of publication, I dont think any of the subsequent analysis contributed hugely to the paper. Published growth curves are used to estimate the age at tagging, which is then added to the time at liberty to get a backtransformed age at recapture. Unfortunately, neither of these original growth studies presented the model variance, a detailed description of the data, or even any plots of the size at age data! Without this information, it is hard to get an idea of how variable size-at-age is for these species (and it is clearly quite variable), or the representativeness of the original sampling, etc. Personally, I think other information could be more useful, like photographs of the two oldest vertebrae sections for reference. I recommend two revisions to the research note. Firstly, some more background information is required on the tagging study itself. It is not stated how many sharks were tagged and recaptured over the duration of the whole study, nor is it clear why these seven were chosen specifically (presumably they werent the only recaptures). Secondly, I disagree that Fabens theoretical method for estimating longevity is the usual method of estimating longevity. I dont see the value with making comparisons to theoretical longevity later on in the paper and find this confusing. For example, the theoretical maximum longevities of R. terranovae are stated to be 7.1 and 6.9 years for females and males respectively, but Loefer and Sedberry (2003) reported actual longevities of 10 and 9 years. 