This manuscript describes the isolation of two strains of guinea pig adenoviruses and their successful propagation on a newly developed and on three commercially available guinea pig (GP) cell lines. The manuscript is very relevant, as every successful, novel virus isolation is very important for adenovirology. The manuscript also discusses the partial phylogenetic comparison of adenoviral sequences with the examined AdV strains (full hexon gene and partial polymerase and penton base sequence parts). The Introduction is thorough enough and dense in a good meaning. It only deals with guinea pig AdVs, but all the known publications are well collected. The Methods section is a bit too detailed and long compared to the other parts of the manuscript. Sometimes the process is already published somewhere, and the manuscript refers to it correctly but also details shortly. This is unnecessary in some cases in my opinion. The process of the primary cell line production and its immortalization is very well written. It is easy to follow the process and very interesting. The successful isolation and propagation of the two GPAdVs are a very nice job and well written. The pictures of CPEs on different cell lines represent the changes correctly and well visualize this part of the research. The surprising parts of the adenoviral PCR detection in the homogenates and infected cell cultures are that the original nasal scraping sample was PCR negative for AdV, while the cell culture infected by this material showed CPE and it was PCR positive. I would be curious of the opinion of the authors, how this can be possible, i.e., that the PCR reaction is not enough sensitive for detection, but the material is suitable for the usually less successful virus isolation. It is a great result that the virus isolation attempts were successful with the GPAdV positive materials. It is more pity that the very interesting full genome sequence of these strains are not available. In the case of isolated viruses, it is only a small step by NGS. Because of the lack of full genome sequences of the examined AdVs, Figure 5. loses its relevancy. This makes some data incomparable in the figure. The phylogenetic calculations are very interesting, however, the one, based on the full hexon gene, seems to show a bit different topology than the other two. It is surprising, that among mastadenoviruses, not the rodent AdVs are the most ancient ones as usual, and they are not monophyletic with the GPAdVs. Summarizing, this is a well-written manuscript with very relevant and precious results. Minor notes: There are a couple of not disturbing misspellings or inadvertent mistakes. The only one, which can be confusing is in the legend of Figure 5. The labeling is correct on the figure, but in the legend, both columns are labeled with blue instead of orange and blue. Other mistakes: Misspelling in the abstract/background: “variable” instead of “variable”. Twice, the word “resuspended” was misspelled to “resuspened” (Methods/Immortalization, 1 st paragraph). Also, here in the last sentence the word “aliquoted” was misspelled to “alliquoted”. In most of the times, it was used correctly, but several times the “u” character was used instead of “” e.g.: twice in Methods/Immortalization, 2 nd paragraph. Also, here a space is missing in one of the cases, between the number and the unit (1ug), correctly (1 g). The lack of space mistake between the amount and the unit occurs several times in the manuscript. I won't detail all of them here. Please check them. Also, a dot is unnecessary in the middle of a sentence of this paragraph, after a catalog nr: (catalog # MF10096). A comma should be used in the listing instead of “and” at Methods/GPTEC-T cell line authentication, after (DSMZ ACC 057). The shortening of fowl adenovirus D was used incorrectly. The letter “a” of adenovirus is in lower case font. It should be a capital “A”. Everywhere else it was used correctly. (Methods/Assembly, 1 st paragraph: “FadV-D” was written instead of “FAdV-D”). Once, the word “adenovirus” was written also with a capital incorrectly in the case of cynomolgus adenovirus. A “3’” end is missing for primer GPhexFW3 in Table 1. The word “cytopathic” was misspelled to “cythopathyc” (legend of Figure 3.). The word “twenty” was misspelled to “twety” (legend of Figure 4.). Also, here the word “absence” was misspelled to “absence”. The use of abbreviation AdV species with the number of type like HAdV-C5 is not exactly appropriate, but widespread, so it is okay. But once it was misspelled (Methods/Assembly, 2 nd paragraph: “HAdVA-12” instead of “HAdV-A12”). Also here in the whole paragraph, while in abbreviation the first letter is indeed in capital like “HAdV-A”, in writing the names of viruses should be written by lower case like “human adenovirus A12” according to the recommendation of the ICTV (if the name is from a Latin genus/species name, like Odocoileus hemionus adenovirus, it is correct with capital). The name of fowl adenovirus in Methods/Assembly and in the legend of Figure 4 is incorrect (species D Fowl aviadenovirus 764). The correct name should be something like: “fowl adenovirus 8b strain 764 (FAdV-D)”. I would prefer the use of AdV type names (Arabic numbers) instead of species names (letters) on the phylogenetic trees, and GenBank numbers instead of RefSeq identification numbers (like starting with NC_...). These latter data won’t be updated, while the GenBank entries may be. Based on this, type data (including AC_... data) are more appropriate here. The examined AdVs are originated from rodent hosts. I missed very much other available AdVs with rodent origin on the phylogenetic trees, like squirrel AdV (KY427939), or murine adenovirus 2 (HM049560). If the data was too much for the calculation, I would skip rather MAdV-1 or MAdV-3. They are more similar to each other, while MAdV-2 is more different. Maybe this is a new practice, but for me, it was surprising and indistinctive, that the manuscript referred to itself. 