In summary, the manuscript is still lacking in scientific sound and requires extensive revision. The contradictions between this finding and the previous studies have not yet been logically justified. Oda and Chiem (2019) mentioned the methanogenesis inhibited by rice plants, but this study shows higher methane during the cropping cycles than those in the non-cropping phase. The authors said that "No rice straw is incorporated before the flood period. That is the difference in the conclusion of Oda and Chiem (2019)." It is not clear to me what "incorporated" means and how it results in the different outcomes between these two studies. Is It is sound inconsistency with the statement that "We confirmed that no rice straw (the source of methanogenesis) was lost to the floodwater." The authors persuaded that the no-plant flood mentioned in Oda and Chiem (2019) had no rice straw, but in this study, there was straw left in the field during the natural flood. The authors also conclude that soil organic alone under flooding promotes methane emission, but soil organic with rice straw incorporated was not. The authors said that the reason is due to sufficient DO. This conclusion was puzzling. How to prove that the flood in the previous study has insufficient DO, but there was adequate for this study? The authors, therefore, should discuss more the pathways of C losses (CH 4 , CO 2 , SOC, Dissolve forms, bio uptake, etc.) from the paddy field during the natural flood. The authors point out that decomposing rice straw in non-cropping flooding water generates less methane under sufficient DO so that they recommend the audiences to experiment as a way to minimize methane emission. This recommendation might not be useful and need to open for multidisciplinary discussions. First, the cropping environment factor should be discussed in response to the limitation and possible adoption of this CH 4 mitigation practices in other areas. Second, socioeconomics should be firmly pointed out since minimizing cropping cycles may not be socially acceptable. Thrid, environmental sustainability by CH 4 mitigation may not correct since the conversion of CH 4 to other carbon forms could also result in additional ecological problems.