 Review process: The open review model calls for a special reviewing strategy since previous reviews/comments are already available. I read the paper and formed my independent opinions before looking at the previous reviews. Then I wrote this report to express my opinions in the context of the previous reviewer's opinion. Summary: The authors attempt to unravel the complex interaction between IBD and depression that is potentially mediated by the gut microbiome. More specifically, they identify a subset of (24) microbial species that could discriminate between various single-disease and co-morbid cases of IBD and depression, and discuss the potential roles of these species and associated functional pathways in co-morbidity in the context of prior literature. Their methodology involves applying a combination of a machine learning approach (building a random forest to predict disease labels from species abundances and feature selection of informative species in the final model) and performing statistical tests (ANOVA-based test to identify which of the 24 selected/informative species differ between pairwise groups of interest such as the IBD with vs. without depression groups). Strengths: The authors use a systematic data-driven approach to address an important question of which microbial species and which functional pathways are involved in the "microbiome-brain-gut axis" (or specifically which species/pathways discriminate between different groups of individuals such as IBD disease with vs. without depression). The idea of using a random forest to select informative species with predictive power and then doing all subsequent analysis with the selected species is an interesting strategy to deal with the heterogeneity in the data and small sample size per strata/group (though I've some concerns with this approach/idea as mentioned below, which may be addressed with some additional analysis). The nice summary of key results in Table 1 (of species whose abundances have changed between IBD with vs. without depression) and the related discussion of identified species in the context of prior literature on single/comorbid cases of IBD/depression would be of immediate interest to researchers in this field. Concerns: I agree with the previous reviewer's concerns/feedback on improving presentation (such as by adding key details on data dimensions and cross-validation folds to the text) and improving interpretation (such as by comparing the 24 selected species to whatever species would be detected from applying a classic t-test or ANOVA test to all species rather than just the 24 species selected in the random forest analysis). I now provide my feedback/comments not already covered by the previous reviewer below. Statistical concerns due to small sample size and potentially confounding covariates: Though the overall population is a decent sample size of 70 individuals, the per-strata or per-group sample sizes are low to moderate, with some groups like UC having only 4 patients!! The authors are aware of this issue and use a random forest feature selection to tackle the heterogeneity in sparse human population data. But I am not fully convinced that a machine learning model can recover from insufficient sample sizes as low as n=4. One way to address this issue could be to merge together UC with CD and then label them as a single IBD group and then study this group with/without signs of depression. If the conclusions are similar before/after this merging of UC with CD, then the authors may mention that this additional test yielded similar results and keep the current results in the paper as is. Another issue with heterogeneous and sparse human data is that covariates such as age, gender, BMI, genotype, etc. are more likely to confound the association of gut microbiota with disease status. Are these covariates available from the original cohort (I would assume so since the authors say that even host genomes are available)? Importantly, if available, are these covariates matched between the different groups being compared here? If not matched, is the data adjusted for these covariates and how do the results change before/after this adjustment? Providing such information would be critical to readers to properly interpret the detected microbiota associations with IBD/depression. The all-relevant vs. minimal-informative set of species: Please provide clarification on the text on whether the 24 species is a minimal, non-redundant set of species that has predictive power to classify the disease labels, or whether it includes all the relevant species that is associated with disease labels (or whether it is somewhere in-between in this spectrum). In other words, is any other species other than these 24 species associated with disease status? While a minimal set is sufficient to build a predictive model and simplifies further interpretation, the all-relevant set would be useful to understand the comprehensive role of all species and the overall mechanisms involved, as explained nicely in the Introduction of this paper 1 on the Boruta feature selection package. Based on the details provided on random forest based feature selection, the reported results may be closer to the all-relevant than a minimal-informative set, but the requirement of a species to be present in at least 2 models to be selected as an informative species is somewhat ad hoc (i.e., why not 3 or 4 models as a cutoff) and makes it unclear on whether all relevant species are selected. A more systematic way would be to assess the statistical significance of each species' association using a "wrapper method" around the random forest, such as the shuffling-based Boruta feature selection package (which is also used in the Saulnier et al. 2011 paper that the authors have cited). An alternative could be one of the methods in the paper "Statistical interpretation of machine learning-based feature importance scores for biomarker discovery" 2 . The context from prior literature that the authors already provide could be strengthened even further by connecting them to the brain-gut-microbiome axis reviewed in some recent articles 3 , 4 . 