It is great that authors have attempted to address major concerns from both reviewers, with additional analysis, figure and clarifications to text. A couple follow-up points regarding the additions in version 2 remain to be addressed (as explained below); furthermore, some issues that are minor yet important for increasing the readability/impact of the manuscript, which have been already mentioned in previous reviewer reports, remain to be addressed. I believe all of these changes can be incorporated into a new version without any additional analyses, and instead only with clarifications to text/figures. Readers would find a new version incorporating the suggested changes below much more valuable, and I look forward to reading this new version and associated point-by-point response to all reviewer reports posted so far. Regarding the new additions in version 2 compared to version 1, I've the following comments: It is good to know that the species with stronger differences continue to be the informative species when IBD samples are grouped together, but it would be valuable for readers to know the exact list of informative species with the grouped IBD samples. Hence, please provide a suppl. table of all species identified using this combined IBD samples, so that the readers can learn more about which species with stronger differences got replicated, find other interesting exceptions, etc. The authors say that "This list of putative species pretends to be a trade-off between the all-relevant and minimal informative approaches.... ". Did the authors try out the all-relevant approach (i.e., classic t-test or ANOVA for each species)? If so, please provide the selected species from this all-relevant approach as a suppl. table. If not, please mention that other alternate approaches such as minimally informative or all-relevant approach to select species are also possible (and cite the Boruta paper 1 for more information on these alternate approaches), but not tried out. Typos have crept into some of the newly added text. Please fix these: "chose this approach order to get as broad of a list as possible" "only species that appeared more in more than one", etc. Regarding concerns already raised in version 1 reviewer reports (of both reviewer 1 and 2), I would like to give a few example issues that were not addressed: The suppl figs 1-5 captions seems mixed up, as already reported by reviewer 1 in his report, and it doesn't appear to be fixed in version 2 (similarly the very small font size in this figure making it very hard to read has also not been fixed). While this is a minor issue that can be easily fixed, leaving it unfixed can negatively impact the readability of the article. The 1000-fold cross-validation still needs some explanation, again as raised by reviewer 1 in his response. Figure 1 helps a lot to understand the data splits, and with additional text on longitudinal sampling of the same individual, it is easier to understand that 70 individuals actually give rise to ~1400 data points. What is not clear are: How are these ~1400 data points split into 1000 folds? Please clarify in text. Please also clarify in text any issues/caveats associated with doing cross-validation on samples that are not independently distributed but are instead correlated due to several data points coming from the same individual. There are several other, "simple-to-address" issues (i.e., issues that require no additional analyses, only clarifications to text/figures, to address), raised by reviewer 1 in his report. While a single paragraph summarizing all key changes to version 2 compared to version 1 is valuable, a point-by-point response to all reviewer reports submitted so far specifying which issues were addressed and which issues were beyond the scope of this work to address would make it easier for the reviewers to understand the reasoning of the authors in deciding which issues they decided to address when they prepared version 2. A quantitative data-driven analysis of the brain-gut-microbiome axis is an important topic to understand, and this paper makes a significant contribution in this area, and it would be valuable to readers once the above comments are addressed. References 1. Kursa M, Rudnicki W: Feature Selection with theBoruta Package. Journal of Statistical Software . 2010; 36 (11). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Computational biology, bioinformatics, systems biology, gene networks, disease-disease interactions, multi-tissue genomics I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Narayanan M. Reviewer Report For: Investigation of gut microbiome association with inflammatory bowel disease and depression: a machine learning approach [version 2; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 7 :702 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.20778.r47384 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-702/v2#referee-response-47384 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 05 Jun 2018 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Narayanan M. Reviewer Report For: Investigation of gut microbiome association with inflammatory bowel disease and depression: a machine learning approach [version 2; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 7 :702 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.16435.r37362 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-702/v1#referee-response-37362 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 04 Oct 2018 Manikandan Narayanan , Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) and Initiative for Biological Systems Engineering (IBSE), Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (RBC-DSAI), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.16435.r37362 Review process: The open review model calls for a special reviewing strategy since previous reviews/comments are already available. I read the paper and formed my independent opinions before looking at the previous reviews. Then I wrote this report to express ... Continue reading READ ALL 