The article is clear and well written. The figure and tables support the content. Some suggestions, mainly to improve clarity: Introduction - It would be helpful to mention that the ELIXIR Services can be data resources, tools, and services. - It is mentioned that the selection process aims to reflect national strengths and priorities in bioinformatics and engage its national community. For readers who are not familiar with the bioinformatics community in the UK, it would be helpful to include a short, general description of the local bioinformatics landscape. Process overview - Is "3. Setting up appropriate structures" referring to the Scientific Development Group or does it include other structures? - Which are the Working Groups that are mentioned in Figure 1 (you mention the Agriculture-related data WG)? Strategic Prioritization - When you refer to "ELIXIR-UK", or "discussions within the Node", is this the same as "ELIXIR-UK Executive" in Figure 1 and the Executive Committee (http://www.elixir-uk.org/about-the-node)? Assessment criteria - There is a mix here between the criteria for the ELIXIR Services (brought forward by the ELIXIR Nodes through the Service Delivery Plans) and the indicators which have been developed for the ELIXIR Core Data Resources. The latter focus on databases only and therefore won't be very helpful for training (for example). It would be good to make this explicit to avoid any potential confusion. Results of the assessment - The list of assessment criteria is long and broad in scope. Is there any way of summarizing on which criteria the UK services are doing particularly well and on which criteria there can be improvement (or that were reasons for not including the services)? - Table 2: the services that are listed, seem to be UK-only. Certain are however broader collaborations (e.g. Ensembl, TeSS). Could this be made clear? Future activities and conclusions - From the text, it seems that ELIXIR-UK is focusing on the identification of the ELIXIR UK Services. Is the UK node offering specific support (or other) to its services?