The authors Lilit Nersisyan, Rouben Samsonyan and Arsen Arakelyan present the Cytoscape plugin/app, CyKEGGParser. The tool provides the functionality to parse KEGG KGML files and edit interactions based on expression data and external protein-protein interaction networks. This tool would be of interest to any researcher wishing to overlay experimental results onto curated pathways. Issues: 1: Currently, the diagrams rendered in CyKEGGParser lack some elements of the original diagrams. Here is the link to the original " B Cell Receptor Signaling Pathway " http://www.genome.jp/kegg-bin/show_pathway?hsa04662 The original KEGG diagram contains vertical lines indicating transmembrane proteins that are missing from the CyKEGGParser version. There is also a missing interaction between RAC1 and " Regulation of actin cytoskeleton ". Are both of the elements missing from KGML or are there limitations in the capabilities of Cytoscape to render elements, such as the vertical membrane lines? Is there any resource (by the authors or others) that keeps track issues with the KGML files, if this is the result of missing information in the KGML? 2: In the PPI drill-down option, a confidence score threshold is provided, but it would be useful to direct readers to more information about this score and how to select appropriate values. What version of STRING do the authors use? Is this data automatically updated in their internal MySQL database? 3: Currently, there seems to be a problem with the BioPAX export. I believe the problem is in the way KEGGTranslator is called in that lacks the --format option (I found the call to KEGGTranslator in the parsing.log file; this was tested on OS X 10.8.5). If this is indeed the problem, it should be easy to fix. It would be good if the authors validated the resulting BioPAX output from their KGML edits to see if any other issues arise. http://biopax.baderlab.org/validator/check.html Missing ID cross-references (XRefs) is a likely error, but one that the authors might not be able to fix if this information is missing from the KGML file. 4: "ppi" in " Set ppi threshold " should be capitalized in the Protein-protein interaction Settings window of the " Pathway tuning settings ". There are some other minor issues in the dialog. Some of the panels do not seem large enough to accommodate the presented text. On the " Gene Expression Settings " with no file the text appears as " No file selecte " CyKEGGParser seems stable and it performs the key function of helping users edit KEGG pathways, but it may require additional steps by users that want figures that mimic the aesthetics of the original KEGG diagrams (this may be unavoidable due to missing layout information in KGML and/or Cytoscapes inability to render all the KGML elements).