Shen and Rrd (SR) comment critically and succinctly on the paper by Sun et al . published in AJHG which advocates that, before any claim of differences in variance among genotypes in a GWAS or similar study, a check should first be made whether these can be removed by a monotonic transformation. Each of SR’s four criticisms seems well justified. As 105 or more SNPs may be fitted in a GWAS study, what biological interpretation could be given to that number of different transformations or even on a limited subset of loci showing possible variance differences? If some loci give signals of mean but not variance difference, should these then be transformed to eliminate the scale effect on mean and perhaps reveal variance differences? Any concept of an original scale of measurement is lost, as SR point out. It is not obvious why the mere existence of a transformation designed to minimise differences in variance should prevent discussion of variance heterogeneity on the chosen scale. Equivalently, if we considered means of the three genotypes at the locus rather than just average effects, would our ability to transform the data at each locus such that heterozygotes were intermediate imply there was no dominance, or only that it was on a particular scale? On a further point. Sun et al . (p395) comment: ‘In the absence of genotypic mean differences, we can hardly infer that differences in variances are per se of biological interest.’ That is to take too narrow a view: the mean and phenotypic variance (or CV) of a quantitative trait in any species take typical values, e.g. the CV for adult human height is ca. 4% and for BMI ca. 16% . There is direct evidence of genetic differences within species in environmental variance, with GWAS and other single gene studies, that cannot be removed by scale, so the level of the environmental variance is subject to evolutionary forces (e.g. Hill Mulder 2010 Genet. Res. 92:381 ). To view variance as a biological phenomenon which is just some adjunct to the mean seems simplistic, as SR argue. Indeed one has to ask whether scale transformations have value unless there is a biological basis, such as a log transformation to account for multiplicative genetic effects; but that must then apply across all loci.