In the revised version, Dr Khanna has re-emphasized the important drawbacks of using non-specific kinase inhibitors such as SP600125 to support a role for the c-Jun N-terminal Kinases in cells. The new data help demonstrate that the author could deplete the levels of JNK1/2 to very low levels without any effect on CIP2A expression. In contrast, treatment of cells with siRNA oligos against CHK1 (another SP600125 sensitive kinase) did reduce the expression of CIP2A in HT1080. While these data help support the author’s claims, there remains an important issue from my previous report that needs rectification. It is absolutely essential when performing experiments looking at the inhibition of a kinase to verify that the phosphorylation of a physiological substrate is blocked. In the case of JNK1/2, c-Jun is an authenticated substrate with fantastic reagents commercially available for its study. I encourage the author to use the literature as a guide to identify the concentrations of a drug required for the experiments but the author should then validate these findings in the system under study. There is often batch-to-batch variation and the quality of inhibitors can vary greatly between suppliers. It is also important for any RNAi experiment because the depletion of the protein is always incomplete and some kinases can fully phosphorylate their substrate even when expressed at very low levels. This data would demonstrate that the RNAi knockdown had the desired functional effect of blocking substrate (c-jun) phosphorylation without affecting CIP2A expression and clearly show that JNK1/2 are not involved in this process. It is a simple control experiment and I do not fully understand the author's reluctance to provide such data. It has come to my attention that the data presented in Supplementary Table 1 was originally published by Bain et al. (Biochem J 2003) . In the original version of the manuscript, I had assumed that the authors had performed their own assays to confirm what had been published in the above mentioned article. It is absolutely essential that the author clarifies the source of the data and includes it into the legend of the table.