This version has been cleaned up considerably but is still long. Removing the sleep apnea sections and cleaning up most of the issues between background, methods, results and discussion helps improve the ability to read the document cleanly. Overall the concept of detailed analysis of the effects of various medications on sleep for an individual patient is a testament to perseverance and a desire for knowledge. The rigorous approach to a clinical evaluation is impressive. The results are still hampered by no consideration of carry over effects from one time frame to another. The authors indicate that given the long half-life and perhaps even longer carry-over effect of duloxetine that a pure “washout” would not be practical or possible. This is understood but there are other ways to handle “washout” concerns in N of 1 trials. The most common way is for the data to be removed from analysis during the “cross-over” period. Rarely are pure "placebo" washout periods used. In this report deleting the data from periods of time that a previous drug or level of drug would still be impacting the sleep results is not likely to alter the results from time period to time period. It would likely result in some of the “study” periods being dropped entirely as all or most of the data during one or two periods during the step down of duloxetine would likely be in this window. The section on not being able to conduct a “treatment washout period” should be revised to indicate that a decision was made to not statistically create a washout period in analyzing the data and the reason this approach was not utilized. The reference to “SPOT” N of 1 trials is not available for review. Though a step-down single testing period is considered a N of 1 in this review from a review of the table of contents, the SPOT study approach was not recognized as a N of 1 approach in the AHRQ contracted series of white papers reviewing the area. Be that as it may, the reasonably rigorous approach to studying medication effects on sleep in a complex clinical situation indicates what is possible with a highly motivated patient and diligent care team. Even without the statistical analysis the graphs of the sleep results are compelling that the changes are a result of changes in medications over time and are useful in making clinical decisions, the main point of the activities. The term “brain-zap” is not a clinical term and, in fact, does not even appear as a lay term during an internet search. The term should be removed and replaced with a clinical term and referenced. Likewise the term “brain fog” and “jet lagged” are not clinical terms but at least both come up when searched upon. The concepts should be described in clinical terms and the existence of the phenomena should be referenced. The authors should carefully read through the current version and remove all adjectives and adverbs that do not add scientific value to a sentence. The manuscript has many of these scattered throughout. Some examples are listed below: “Treatment for SAD and its sequelae are also compounded for peri- and post-menopausal females – a fact which may be under-appreciated in the primary care setting.” Either reference this statement as being specific to primary care versus other settings or make the statement more generalized. “Prescribing sleep medications to aid in depression-related symptoms in peri- or post-menopausal women that may be susceptible,or have, sleep apnea is therefore highly problematic.” The term “highly” either needs to be documented or better yet just removed it adds little. Reference the comment that first generation anti-depressants partially exert their effects through restoring sleep. While the drugs have and are used to help with sleep disturbances at low doses it is not clear that the sleep effects have been clearly related to their effects on depression. "Thus, the resulting polypharmacy used to treat SAD is usually pursued without regard to the timing or dosage of the drugs or concern for drug-drug interactions." The word “usually” adds nothing and is not documented/referenced. "In order to combat these issues, the management of SAD and related psychiatric disorders should, as noted, be pursued in a more patient-specific or ‘personalized’ manner – something that might not be accomplished at the level of a primary care provider." In fact the approachs used in this manuscript are not used widely in any setting that this reviewer is aware of – why single out primary care as the issue? These examples were pulled just from the background section. All sections should be reviewed for similar extraneous words that detract from the clinical message. 