This article is informative and well written overview of how the Altmetric product integrates with institutional platforms. The sketch of how Altmetric tracks research in the Introduction I found particularly useful. It is worth noting that the author is an employee of Altmetric, but I feel this is acceptable for an opinion article. I agree with reviewer 1 that the article suffers somewhat from a focus on the company and could be strengthened in some areas by a broader perspective. hese do not need to be significant changes, but can be brief mentions outlined below. First, on the topic of standardizing metadata formats, areas of consensus among altmetrics providers might be noted wherever possible, rather than focusing solely on what Altmetric would like to see. Also, NISOs current efforts might be acknowledged here. Second, under the heading "Practical applications of altmetrics," the statement beginning "Altmetrics are used in practice aross the scholarly communications lifecycle..." might be qualified, as it seems to overstate the extent to which altmetrics are currently in use (which is avoided in the cited article). Granted, this information may be proprietary, but it would be useful to know how widespread altmetrics use is. Third, an significant issue of institutional interest that might be touched upon is the relationship between altmetrics and open access (this came to mind in the discussion of the World Bank reports). This seems to be a missed opportunity given the discussion of repositories and altmetrics (though there is brief mention of the use case encouraging staff to deposit in research information management systems). As with numerous studies on the OA citation advantage, do OA articles receive more mentions? Can Altmetric data tell us which articles (or which versions) are OA and which are not? Fourth, I agree with reviewer 1 that some criticisms or limitations of altmetrics might be admitted. It seems unlikely, for example, that altmetrics would provide useful data in all disciplines. I think these four issues could be addressed without significant revisions and would improve this paper. A problem (which I do not expect the author to address here) with Altmetric is the prominent display of scores in the "donut" with a simultaneous downplaying of that number. For example, the author says The paper has a relatively low Altmetric score of 13 and then emphasizes the importance of analysing the underlying qualitative mentions beyond score If it is more important to look at the sources, then the score should be done away with so it does not become subject to abuse like the journal impact factor (one reason that I prefer the displays of other altmetrics providers). As with the JIF, quantitative measures are too tempting to our short-cutting, convenience-minded human nature. 