The proposed index of modularity is of striking simplicity - and thus likely to be prone to artifacts. In the opening paragraph, Poisot forgot to mention that random networks are also modular. Thus, a Q_R 0 means, in itself, nothing, as Poisot rightly assumes when employing a null model. The typically log-normal abundance of species in nature will introduce apparent structure into networks, even if the links simply reflect probabilistic interactions (i.e. any species interacts more with a common than a rare species). Thus, without a null model correcting for number of species, for their abundance and for the possibility of random networks also being modular, any index may report only spurious, artefactual results. Poisot uses a null model, but because his example data are binary networks (containing no information about the strength of a link), the best he (or anyone) can do is to use a null model based on degrees, which is only a very poor reflection of the actual abundance. Given that often more than a third of the species in a network are singletons, I believe that their contributions to modularity are overemphasized by any binary measure. Suggested Revisions: 1. Simulate networks (ideally weighted ones) and compare their Q_R values to quantitative null models. How much information does Q_R (and Q) actually contain? 2. Comparison of Q_R not only with Q and connectance but also with other network metrics, such as linkage density or dependence asymmetry (and particularly those with a more or less clear ecological interpretation, such as H2'). The question, again, is: what does Q_R provide in addition to current metrics? 3. Gain in ecological knowledge (which follows from 1. and 2.): If there is additional information, what does it mean? Which ecological features (specialization, number of functionally similar species, number of trophic level, number of habitats sampled etc.) contribute to Q_R? (For example along the lines of Pocock et al. 2012 , who work on different types of sub networks put together into one large, or Clauset et al . 2008 . Are these different sub networks identifiable as modules? If so, what does Q_R stand for?)