This paper is a good example of why the F1000Research model is so bad... The manuscript is poorly written, does not show a good grasp of the relevant literature or that a good literature search was conducted, misrepresents some of its references, and very probably has an important mistake in a Table or its analyses. All of these issues could have been solved during the regular peer review process so that at the end the only publicly available version would have been an adequate one. Although it is a short paper, it would take me too long to list all of the problems in it, so I will just mention 2-3 examples per problematic issue: Poor writing: From the abstract: a) "symptoms of [a] dissociation [dissociative] disorder". b) "Both AIR claimants and non-claimants scored lower than the clinical cutoff" [despite the previous sentence in the abstract mentioning that percentages of both groups had scored above the cutoff. c) "incorporating [a] comprehensive dissociative symptom measurement, as well as their effects on the person's functionality" [grammatical number is inconsistent, besides the fact that "measurement[s]" would not have an effect on functionality. Inadequate coverage of the literature: a) There have been various recent studies specifically evaluating possible psychopathology in people reporting anomalous experiences (in general) and spirit possession/mediumship (in particular), yet only very few are listed in the Reference section. b) Contrary to what the authors write that "Claims of such abilities are often considered to be symptoms of dissociation [dissociative] disorders", yet both the anthropological literature and, more relevant in this case, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual taxonomy, ever since its 4th edition, has specifically required that clinically significant levels of distress or dysfunction be present to consider a dissociative manifestation pathological. Misrepresentations of cited literature: a) A paper by Rebecca Seligman is used to support the above quotation that mediumship abilities are often considered to be symptoms of dissociation, yet she specifically states that "dissociation is not a pathological experience, but rather a therapeutic mechanism", along the lines of what others in anthopology and psychology have written. b) "Almost half of United States adults...", yet this study was conducted in Winnipeg, Canada. Statistical issues: a) In Table 1, a 3% difference (87 vs 84%) is reported as significant at the minus .05 level, yet an almost identical difference with about the same number of participants (87 vs 89%) is reported as non-significant. I very much doubt that both statements, particularly the first one, are accurate. b) There are multiple references to probability values = 0 or less than 0, but of course it goes against inferential statistics to state that instead of, for example, less than .001, or whatever. 