This is an interesting and very useful article on a subject which, as the authors note, is widely discussed but under researched. The article sets out to examine data derived from a scoping review in an effort to contribute to a definition of the term 'predatory journal'. Disagreements about whether the term should be used at all are summarised early on in the article and this provides a useful backdrop to the multiple difficulties involved in defining the term. Questions and issues raised by the article In considering the issue of predatory journals, the authors raise questions of what might be considered characteristics of a legitimate journal might. The article discusses this only partially and mainly in relation to the difficulties of distinguishing between journals which set out to mislead and which abandon the aims of publish high quality science entirely and, on the other hand, those which are poorly managed and run. It is not necessary I think to give this further and detailed consideration here, but it is important to note that there may well other issues to consider here. For example, there may well be complex relationships between the practices of legitimate journals, and the unintended consequences of impact factor metrics (as noted in The Lancet special issue on 'Increasing value, reducing waste' cited by the authors for example) and the expansion of bad as well as good journals and publication platforms which offer alternatives. The Lancet and other critiques point to intense competition involved in publishing in high impact journals, the need to publish for promotion and employment and so on as factors which drive bad practice in general and may also play a role in the rise of predatory journals. Another issue which is only briefly mentioned in the article is whether the norms of publishing and peer review differ across different disciplines. Perhaps give the characteristics of existing literature it is not possible to say much about this currently, but the authors could raise more clearly this as an issue to be considered in future research. And I think the point should be made that whilst it is common for health research articles to follow the reporting convention of 'Introduction, methods, results, discussion', this is not the case in other fields. Thus having this as a criteria for judging the quality of a journal could be misleading. Clarification of terminology I would encourage the authors to explain terms such as 'epidemiological characteristics' and 'scoping review' which may be familiar to those who work in health research but not perhaps to others. Some examples? Some of the results would have been clearer to me if examples had been included. This is particularly the case with regard to 'persuasive language'. It is unclear to me what is being referred to by that term. Missing link? I couldn't get the link to further details about the search strategy to work. That accounts for the 'partial' score for source data question but that may just be a problem for me and not for others. 