In this manuscript the authors aimed at evaluating the use of shallow shotgun metagenomic sequencing for the characterisation of species diversity and the reconstruction of genomes in complex Illumina read sets. Overall, the manuscript is well written and contains interesting information that may be useful to others in figuring out a required metagenomic sequencing depth for a given goal. The manuscript has been vastly improved in the current version, however I feel that it still needs a thorough revision to address a few major issues in order to ensure the general validity of the findings. The three major issues to address are, in my opinion, the following: Overestimation of diversity : Authors decided to base their analyses of diversity on the raw output from kraken2. However, as mentioned by the authors themselves, "species represented by only one read are unlikely to be real". This is quite evident in the report from the 20-species mock community comprising instead 2000 species. I strongly recommend the use of a threshold (e.g., 0.005% of the total amount of reads) to filter out likely false positives. For this purpose, the authors could take advantage of the mock community to evaluate results based on different thresholds and thereby optimise threshold selection. Inaccuracy of species-level abundances : in their analysis the authors assumed that read abundances reflect species abundance. However, this is often not the case, especially when closely related taxa are present in the sample; the accuracy of abundance estimation further depends on the database used (Lu et al 2017). The authors themselves hint at this when discussing the misclassification of Staphylococcus lugdunensis, likely due to the presence of other confounding Staphylococcus reads. To address this issue, the authors could use Bracken (from the same developers of kraken, Lu et al. 2017). Bracken uses the classification results of kraken to reestimate relative species abundances taking into account how much sequence from each species is identical to other genomes in the database. Inaccurate assessment of genome reconstruction ability : considering the classification biases mentioned above and the complexity of the investigated metagenomic data sets, it might be better to base the assessment of the effects of coverage reduction on metagenome reconstruction solely on the mock community data. First, authors would need to bin the metagenomic contigs into individual species (using kraken2 and/or other binning approaches). The individual bins (i.e., species) should then be evaluated for completeness using BUSCO and compared. In summary, this work (and, by extension, future studies using a similar approach) could greatly benefit from the inclusion of a baseline estimate for species diversity and metagenome reconstruction, even if it is derived from a single mock community. The additional data sets could then be used to validate these estimates against real data. 