This article addresses a very important issue of peer review. Although, many of us tend to regard it in a way of "if it aint broke, dont fix it", we also are often frustrated with the process and wish it were more fair, transparent and to the point (rather than requesting numerous experiments that are only tangential to the papers main message). Thus, constructive approach to potential improvement of the peer review system is always welcome and should be encouraged. With this in mind, I support, in principle, publication of this manuscript. On the other hand, the way that the authors present their ideas is not perfect. Here is why: First they make a huge emphasis in their introductory remarks on experimental reproducibility and societal impact. However, their "oath" does not address these issues specifically and constructively; instead, it offers declarative statements which are mostly trivial and already represent part and parcel of todays peer review process (e.g., "I will comment on how well you have achieved transparency, in terms of materials and methodology, data and code access, versioning, algorithms, software parameters and standards, such that your experiments can be repeated independently"). Second, the authors do not address clearly one very important aspect of potential improvement of the review process which is "To request further experiments only as a last resort, and only if they are essential to validate the conclusions of the paper. No experiments extending the study beyond its conclusions, or with unreasonable cost or time implications, should be proposed. An estimate of time required for the additional work should be provided." This is a quote from Mariann Bienz and Kathy Weston who also addressed the issue of peer reviewing ( http://elifesciences.org/elife-news/a-reviewers-charter ). Third, the "oath" is unreasonably long. Again, I suggest to look at the post by Bienz and Weston, which unlike the present paper, is much clearer, laconic and to the point. Fourth, the authors quite nonchalantly suggest to overturn the cornerstone of the present review system - its anonymity. What is the chance for that? The reason for such a step should be well reasoned and substantiated.