This paper contains follow up data from patients analyzed in a previous study ( E. Vuille-Lessard et al. 2010 ). I have great concerns about certain issues that are presented in this paper: 1. the proportion of responders was low (52%) and I suspect that selection bias was present. The authors should include the baseline characteristics of this population compared to the original study patients. The mean Hb values seem higher than in the original study. Could this study population be the better, healthier part of the original study population? 2. Data analysis was performed by regression analysis to investigate the relationship between postoperative Hb level and functional recovery (by FSI score) and quality of life by SF-36 score. The effect of time between surgery and completion of follow up questionnaires on patients’ scores was evaluated. It would be more informative if the model investigating the relationship of (delta) Hb and scores was corrected for the effect of the time. 3. In my opinion p-values are not the only parameter of value. Additionally reporting R or R2 would be more informative, since this parameter will explain the proportion of variation which can be explained by the variable of interest. 4 . I do not agree with the strengths of the study. Using two different questionnaires is not a way to enhance the validity of the study. Perhaps the used questionnaires are not discriminative enough or are just not suitable to test the hypothesis in this patient population. 5. The authors should include possible selection bias as a major weakness, see also point 1. 6 . A possible error was present in reporting the time of follow up in the weakness paragraph: 3 months to 6 years should be probably 6 months to 3 years. 7. Another possible error was present in the number of questionnaires completed. If 26 to 36 were completed during 7 consecutive weeks, 190 questionnaires should have been available, not 184. In this paper some essential data are lacking and together with the finding that the data was not analyzed appropriately, I conclude that the results do not add to more evidence regarding quality of life or functionality after hip- and knee arthroplasty, even after (long-term) follow up.