The article by Sofyanti et al. regarding the potential correlation between symptoms of temporomandibular joint dysfunction/disorder (TMD) and vertical mandibular symmetry is timely. 106 young adults referred for orthodontic treatment were questioned formally about TMD symptoms, and their responses correlated with objective evaluation of their orthopantomographs (OPTs). Of the 63 patients confirmed as having some degree of vertical mandibular asymmetry, and presumably requiring orthodontic treatment, 39 presented with symptoms of TMD, and 24 did not have any symptoms of TMD. The conclusion of the study was that there does not appear to be a significant association between vertical mandibular asymmetry and TMD symptoms. The conclusion of this investigation is not surprising. All else being equal, mandibular asymmetries without functional problems would logically not lead to any greater likelihood of TMD symptoms than the rest of the population. Though TMD may be multifactorial in origin, psychosocial stress appears to be a common thread. Patients with excellent dental occlusions may develop TMD, particularly during stressful periods in their lives, whereas many patients with quite complex malocclusions may never develop TMD. Nevertheless, malocclusions linked to parafunctional activities or leading to functional occlusal problems may demonstrate a higher preponderance to TMD. As such, it would be very interesting to repeat this study looking at the effects of mandibular lateral displacements (functional shifts) and any potential correlations with TMD. True skeletal asymmetries without lateral mandibular displacements are less likely to lead to TMD, but lateral displacements and associated functional problems may be of greater concern. Additionally, It would be potentially interesting to evaluate the prevalence of TMD comparing patients with predominantly vertical mandibular asymmetries (hemimandibular hyperplasia) and those with predominantly horizontal mandibular asymmetries (hemimandibular elongation). Another interesting question is the correlation of the variety of TMD symptoms in relation to specific malocclusions, whether dental or skeletal. Different TMD symptoms point to different aetiological factors. For example, with TM joint noises, clicking tends to be a sign of disc displacement/internal derangement, whereas crepitus may be due to arthritic-type changes. In the same way, myogenic pain, or trismus, may have diverse aetiology. It is worth exploring the potential links of dentoskeletal malocclusions not only to TMD as an all-encompassing diagnosis, but to the different symptoms comprising the diagnosis of TMD. It should also be noted that there is improved clinical awareness, and enhanced imaging availability, with t1 or t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) used to establish more accurately the aetiology and nature of a dysfunctioning joint. Therefore, in cases where asymmetry directly results from previous trauma, or with developmental, congenital, and hypermobility disorders, it is disc position that seems to be the determining factor in the overall stability of the mechanics of the joint. Disruption, or disc displacement, leads to various degrees of arthrogenic and neurogenic symptoms of TMD, as opposed to myogenic TMD that seems to be a common symptom amongst the anxious and stressed TMD sufferer. The authors should be congratulated on a thought-provoking article. 