Initially it is only right that I completely disclose my potential conflict of interest up front. In addition to my qualifications in public health and law I am also qualified as a naturopath. This would suggest that I automatically would disagree with the premise of the article. However, I will review the article below on its merits alone. This article is also clearly labelled as a commentary, so my criticism will also bear this in mind. This relates to the authors opinion, I will only highlight where I think this opinion is not necessarily argued well or on fact. Title and abstract: I would suggest that the title, whilst certainly poetic, does not really reflect the content of the article. I do not think the author has offered nine negatives to each (in fact, there appears to be nearly as much word count supporting naturopathy as there is arguing against it). I think that as it stands the articles title reflects a strength of argument that isnt there. I think that there are less quantitatively driven titles the author could choose, or the author could modify content to address the current mismatch between title and content. There is far more positive discussion of aspects of naturopathic care than the title would suggest. The abstract tends to describe naturopaths as a homogenous group, and I would suggest that qualifiers such as many naturopaths are hostile or a proportion of naturopaths are hostile would be more accurate than blanket statements. It is undeniably true that these opinions exist, but the homogeneity of opinion certainly does not. Article content: I give specific comments below, in the order that they appear in text: In the introduction the author does not appear to define naturopathy correctly. It is a principles-based system of medicine (just as Chinese medicine and Ayurveda are). Detoxification is not one of these principles. The principles adopted by the World Naturopathic Foundation and recognized by the World Health Organization are summarized here - http://aanmc.org/naturopathic/6principles/ . Given that the author has used guiding principles as a sub-heading this omission appears particularly noticeable. I think the author over-simplifies clinical care when he suggests that it is a different story altogether in conditions like arthritis and depression. Holistic management of these conditions is considered important even in conventional care (e.g. depression associated with arthritis, functionality, and fatigue in rheumatoid arthritis). Moreover, he author makes the critically incorrect assumption that naturopaths ignore symptomatic treatment, with a whole body approach leading to worse outcomes. Like conventional medicine, naturopathic medicine has a spectrum of healing approaches individualized to patient need. A cursory glance of the depression and arthritis chapters of naturopathic texts would have confirmed this (such as Sarris J; Wardle J (eds) (2014) Clinical Naturopathy: An Evidence-Based Guide To Practice, 2 nd edition . Churchill Livingstone: Sydney ISBN: 978-0-7295-4173-2 used as a core text in over a dozen countries including the authors own). Moreover, I find the choice of depression particularly interesting, given the high level of evidence of a specific naturopathic treatment in that condition (St Johns Wort), which is superior to many conventional medicines. The author appears to assume that naturopathic and conventional medicine do not interact or integrate, and discussed them as completely separate entities. One of the glaring examples of this is the discussion of cancer treatments specifically the discussion of the harmful effects price pay-off of cancer treatment. However, part of the core focus of modern naturopathic oncology treatment is to integrate with conventional oncology and to support this treatment through positive interactions (which increase the effect of chemotherapeutics), reduction of side effects from conventional treatment and to improve quality of life throughout. This is the treatment taught in naturopathic schools (and in Janet Schloss cancer chapter in the aforementioned Sarris and Wardle text) and practiced (see Dugald Seelys research papers in PubMed, or view the work at the Ottawa Integrative Cancer Centre and external teaching clinic of the Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine). The author overplays naturopathic resistance to conventional medicine. The approach taken by naturopaths is classed as the Therapeutic Order. Suppressing Pathology is not discouraged completely, simply only encouraged to be used sparingly and not as first-line treatment. A full explanation can be found here: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/43328689_A_hierarchy_of_healing_the_therapeutic_order or in the relevant clinical chapters mentioned previously. It is probably worthwhile, in the introduction to the section on practice, to highlight the fact that naturopaths are defined by their philosophy, and not by their tools of trade. The logic used to suggest that naturopaths would whenever possible not give pain-killers or anti-depressants. Many of the herbal or other therapeutic agents have very similar profiles (e.g. herbal analgesics or capsacain, St Johns Wort is essentially a SSRI). In severe depression and other mental health disorders naturopathic texts discuss at length co-management with pharmaceuticals. In some US states naturopaths have prescribing rights and prescribe these treatments (in fact, in Washington about 12% of naturopaths administer vaccines). In the entire practice section the author appears to cherry-pick treatments including some (such as iridology) that are considered fringe even by naturopaths. The author uses the example of mistletoe in hypertension, which misses the point not only because it is rarely used but also because whole-system naturopathic care does have evidence for improvement in hypertension (e.g. see Bradley R, Kozura E, Kaltunas J, Oberg EB, Probstfield J, et al . (2011) Observed Changes in Risk during Naturopathic Treatment of Hypertension . Evid Based Complement Alternat Med 2011: 826751 and Seely, Dugald, et al. " Naturopathic medicine for the prevention of cardiovascular disease: a randomized clinical trial ." Canadian Medical Association Journal 185.9 (2013): E409-E416) with treatments not including mistletoe. Herbal medicines are far more complex than the author suggests (e.g. see the importance of whole herb hyperforin, hypericin etc reactions in St Johns Wort or the work of the World Health Organization on collection, harvesting and manufacturing herbal medicines) and therefore is not irrational. It is difficult to see, without any compelling argument of any kind, how the author can suggest naturopaths using herbal medicines simply because they are chemical as being irrational either. The author conflates fasting (of which there is much evidence especially in chronic conditions such as RA) with detoxification, overstates the importance of detoxification (probably through an overly simplified interpretation of toxic load theory which is more to do with a mnemonic for reducing the impact of metabolic wastes). Detoxification therapies in naturopathic care can include anything from undoubtedly beneficial therapies such as encouraging more water intake, more regular bowel motions, increased fibre to less likely to be beneficial treatments such as foot spas. Given this breadth it is not surprising that 92% stated using them. The author is also confused on hydrotherapy confusing balneotherapy with hydrotherapy at one stage. Hydrotherapy is the therapeutic application of pressure or heat via water ice compresses are probably the most commonly known of these, but there are numerous other treatments. Leon Chaitows text Naturopathic Physical Medicine published by Elsevier has a good chapter authored by Eric Blake on this topic should the author require more detail. The author highlights one study on sauna therapy but there are many more he could find if he searched PubMed. The author states that the beneficial aspects of naturopathic care can easily be resolved by giving conventional physicians more time. I think this is an overly simplistic interpretation. There are socio-cultural and philosophical reasons for these differences, suggesting they are merely time-based is disingenuous, and not borne out from the data. Observational studies of naturopathic practice have found that health promotion counseling on diet, physical activity, and stress management is incorporated into almost every clinical encounter (80%100%) and is reinforced over successive patient visits. This finding diverges substantially from the low rates of health promotion in conventional care ( 35%40%). These REFS can be found in the following article Wardle J; Oberg E (2011) The intersecting paradigms of naturopathic medicine and public health: opportunities for naturopathic medicine Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine 17 (11); pp1079-84 Conclusions: I feel the statement that naturopaths use treatments where the evidence is weak is too general and too directive. The same can be said of any profession (there is very little evidence for physiotherapy see last years BMJ review and conventional physicians continue to perform knee arthroscopy more than a decade after it has been unequivocally demonstrated to have little clinical value). I agree that more research is needed, but there is also areas in which naturopathic care has demonstrable value in the evidence base. I feel as though, rather than attempting to discredit an entire profession through a few cherry-picked examples, the author would make a better argument by highlighting some of the issues that may make naturopathic care sub-optimal. I have written many of these myself. The very nature of naturopathic medicine may attract people distrustful of conventional medicine with conflicting scientific and philosophical worldviews (see Heather Boons work or Amie Steels work on naturopaths engaging with evidence). The lack of regulation in many jurisdictions means that naturopaths can practice with little or no training. The broad church and inclusive nature of naturopathy may make it easier for fringe therapies to establish. Gort and Coburn suggest that the marginalization of naturopathic medicine itself may encourage it adopt marginal doctrines that bear little philosophical relation to naturopathic practice. However, I feel as though the few cherry-picked and poorly researched topics chosen by the author do little to advance their argument. I feel as though the author has spoken beyond the data on numerous occasions. However, as a commentary piece this should reflect their views. There are some, I believe, errors of fact that need to be addressed. Overall, most of the problems with content I put down to poor knowledge of the topic. Complementary medicine is a highly politically charged topic that can lead to strong opinions on both sides of the debate. I think that this article needs to be either more measure if it is to keep its current form, or if it is to keep its current tone the arguments need to be made far more compelling. As it stands it is a commentary which clearly highlights one authors view of the topic, but it does not convince a reader that this view is a one (to use the authors terms).