Scita et al . present survey research findings on basic scientists’ perceptions of the public health relevance of their work as well as their attitudes toward their own personal satisfaction. This work is interesting especially as it relates to scientists’ perceptions of their work versus the public’s consumption of that work and the associated policies around that interaction. There are several issues with the current version of the article that lead me to approving it with reservations. The current title could be improved and clarified. The part on scientists’ satisfaction seems to be an afterthought as written. The specific research questions and/or hypotheses for the study should be clearly stated. Clarification is needed to allow readers to better understand the differences and similarities between “study 1” versus “study 2.” What is the overlap of the study design and findings? A better explanation as to how “study 1” informed “study 2” would be helpful. The data on the respondent demographics and response rates should be clarified (the current figures and text are not clear). Adding this information into the main text, in table format, may be useful. The clarity of the article would benefit from simplifying the presentation of the data: 16 figures in the main text is overwhelming. Can some of the data be summarized and collapsed into a couple of tables and/or can some of the data be included as supplemental material? The findings would be greatly enhanced by including some statistical testing. Related to that, what is the primary outcome variable(s) of the study? What are the independent and dependent variables? Testing for association of the outcome(s) with items such as career stage (eg, PI, postdoc, etc.), gender, age, and geographic location would be very interesting and informative. At the beginning of the soft policies section on page 12 of the PDF, the statement “[w]e tested scientists’ opinions…” should be demonstrated through statistical analysis. Without statistical analysis, the conclusions should not be written to suggest negative or positive correlations. The results of this study should be discussed in context of the related literature in the “conclusions and discussion” section. Perhaps it would be best to have a separate conclusion and discussion section. Why is it that the text in some of the figure legends is underlined and in other figure legends the text is not underlined? I look forward to reviewing a revised version of the article.