 General comments This is a clearly written protocol for a scoping review to describe the extent and nature of the research evidence about the impact of vaccination on meningitis frequency. We note that this is being conducted before the research team embark on a full systematic review on the topic. Introduction Importantly the numbers of cases (30,000 a year) quoted refer to suspected cases due to any cause, not specifically meningococcal meningitis. I note that the WHO reference to key facts is misleading on this point. Most reported cases are not laboratory confirmed. The majority of confirmed cases are meningococcal, but a substantial proportion are pneumococcal meningitis 1 . The authors should emphasize this in the protocol and clarify how/that they will take account of information on laboratory confirmation of meningococcal and other pathogens when interpreting the data obtained. This is clearly important in assessing the impact of meningococcal vaccines and the validity of the review. Minor: There are currently 12 (not 13) serogroups, and W135 is no longer used, it has been replaced by W 2 . In the abstract, not in the main text, it is stated that Serogroup A is the main aetiological agent of meningitis in the belt. This was true until 2010, but not since. There are 26 (not 27) countries in the meningitis belt according to WHO https://www.who.int/gho/epidemic_diseases/meningitis/en/ . Trotter, C.L., et al., Impact of MenAfriVac in nine countries of the African meningitis belt, 2010-15: an analysis of surveillance data. Lancet Infect Dis, 2017. 17 (8): p. 867-872. 1 . Harrison, O.B., et al., Description and nomenclature of Neisseria meningitidis capsule locus. Emerg Infect Dis, 2013.# 19 (4): p. 566-73. 2 . Methods The authors plan to search various sources in addition to electronic databases but they don’t mention searching conference abstracts. Though this is not essential for a scoping review it could be another way of identifying work in progress – such work may well have been published by the time the authors conduct their planned systematic review on the topic so it might be helpful to include it at this stage. The search strategy looks fine for the purpose of a scoping review. The authors might consider adding the following Mesh term: ‘Meningococcal Infections’. The authors state that they will include both primary studies and review articles. Some clarification is required as to how they will avoid reporting on individual studies more than once (i.e. where an eligible individual study is identified and that study is also included in an eligible systematic review) - will reviews be used as a means of identifying individual studies to report on or will they be reported on at the review level? It sounds as though the search hits will be screened for eligibility in Excel. This is fine if it is the authors’ preference but an alternative could be to use free screening software such as Rayyan which can help organise and speed up the screening process ( https://rayyan.qcri.org/welcome ). The authors state that they will assess the risk of bias for individual studies included in their review. Although this will be an important element of the full systematic review planned by the authors it is not necessarily required for a scoping review e.g. see the PRISMA extension for scoping reviews guidance on this: https://www.acpjournals.org/doi/10.7326/M18-0850 . It is not clear that an assessment of risk of bias is required here. We suggest the authors give careful consideration as to whether this step is necessary, particularly given that it can be quite time consuming, and what it will add to the scoping review. If the authors do feel that risk of bias assessment is required, they should provide clear reasoning for this in relation to the review objectives. 