This is an observational, descriptive study describing the enzymatic and hormonal phenotype of the mast cells in full thickness normal human endometrium and the adjacent myometrial layers. The data from the modest sample size presented in the manuscript confirms previous reports of spatio-temporal distribution of MC and their phenotype throughout the menstrual cycle; highlighting the novel finding, the glucocorticoid receptor expression in these cells. The authors have also examined the GR expression in the context of the expression of a selected panel of other steroid receptors. The manuscript is well written and presented; however, there are some points detailed below which warrants further consideration/ clarification. General comments: The conventional histopathological description of the endometrial layers as endometrial basalis layer and functionalis layer, or stratum basalis or stratum functionalis throughout the manuscript may provide more clarity than the inconsistent use of less conventional descriptive terms of basal compartment etc. in the present MS. Referral to some pivotal previous references could make the manuscript more comprehensive, such as Engemise SL et al, Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. , 2011; Mori A et al. , Hum Reprod., 1997 ; Drudy L et al., Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol., 1991 The description of the genes TPSAB1 and CMA1 first appear in the results section but should be stated at the initial mention for clarity. Methods: Authors have analysed the TPSAB1 and CMA1 mRNA expression by relative standard curve using a tonsil mRNA as a reference. What is the reason for this and why was this method utilised in place of the usual comparative Ct (delta delta Ct) method? The reasons need to be explained with reference to the more widely known method. In dual IHC, was the 2RT antibody incubation for 16h? This appears to be relatively longer than the usual protocols. Did the authors use a quantification method to assess the immunolocalisation of the proteins of interest? Results: The total number of samples mentioned in the Methods is 46, yet there is inconsistent numbers used at different aspects of the analysis. Particularly in the paragraph describing steroid receptors co-stained with tryptase, the number of samples stated in the legends of referenced figures does not add up to 20 as mentioned in the text. The authors present data on the steroid receptor expression in tryptase-positive uterine mast cells why did they not present the data for the same in the chymase-positive cells? It is noticeable that not all the MC were ERβ+, this might be associated with chymase expression? Data in Table 1 could be more informative, with quantification of the expression and statement if this refers to the exact endometrial layer; basalis or functionalis. In Figure 6, GR+ MCs seems to be activated. Is this pertinent to all the samples? Or is it phase specific phenomenon? Discussion: Page 10, “We found that the concentrations of tryptase and chymase mRNA ”, should be replaced with “levels” The statement “As tryptase and chymase are constitutively expressed by MCs (Pejler et al ., 2007), it is unsurprising they may remain unchanged if cell numbers are fairly constant.” Need to be updated with reference to activated MC releasing the tryptases to the extracellular compartment, but the extracellular compartment is part of the whole endometrial lysate that has been examined so overall levels are not expected to change anyway. The reference to some other papers that agree and disagree with their work (mentioned above), authors may also acknowledge the small sample size as a limitation of their study. 