Vaitaitis and Wagner present an interesting hypothesis regarding the inability of effective immunotherapies for autoimmunity in mice to translate to human clinic. They describe the difference in sleep/wake cycle as a confounding factor in the translation. Where in mice, the majority of work is conducted during the rodent sleep cycle where as the authors state there is an increase in adaptive immune cells, those which are often targeted by these types of therapies. However these same treatments are given in the daylight/wake period of humans, where the adaptive immune system is less active. They propose to give these types of treatment during the sleep cycle in humans to facilitate the optimal targeting of the adaptive immune response to down-modulate the ensuing self-reactive response. Although this makes sense there are a few caveats that must also be considered. For example, the administration route and dose may have a profound impact on the overall immune response. Also for dosing and and timing we assume that tissue distribution is limited if at all, and that the agent is not getting to the target tissue. This is likely not the case, as then many agents would fail to have any real therapeutic value at all. I understand the logic but as we know pharmacokinetics is extremely complex for drug delivery. Notwithstanding, the complexity of this is far greater still, since the interaction of the circulating immune cells, for example CD4-helper cells must interact with APC/DC in the draining lymph node, where the APC has ferried antigen where it can present to T cells, This interaction then puts the APC at the center of the issue and therefore the whereabouts of these cells at the time of antigen exposure becomes critical. Overall, this article brings us out of the dark and into the light for just how much we take for granted in these types of experiments when moving to the clinic. Overall the author’s suggestions to assess these differences warrant that these types of experiments are investigated. For example, the design of sustained delivery of agents that can be given in more conducive time frames that then release their payload during the sleep cycle may be impactful. 