In the current study, the authors tried to estimate the prevalence of ED in Indonesia population through a web-based survey. I have several concerns about the methods and results parts. Major points: First, compared with traditional studies using face-to-face questionnaires, there are several limitations must be stressed concerning web-based survey: Web-based survey cannot guarantee that all the terms are correctly understood by the participants. Usually an experienced physician is necessary for explanation of the questions in the study. Physical examination cannot be performed. Some physical examination results such as testicular volume, varicocele... may be associated with ED. Additionally, detection of sexual hormones (serum testosterone, estrogen, prolactin) is also required for a cross-sectional study researching ED. Absence of these will result in potential bias. According to the description in Methods part, the link to the web-based survey was put on display on a banner placed in the Urology Clinic. I doubt whether these participants can represent general population in Indonesia? These participants (I think most of them were patients in the Urology Clinic) were those who were interested about this issue. And this will result in selection bias. I am wondering whether there were some participants completing the web-survey directly through searching in the Internet? Second, the sample size was not predetermined. I don’t think the sample size (255) is large enough to estimate the prevalence of ED in Indonesia. The authors need to address the end-points of their study. Third, concerning statistics, a multivariate analysis may be performed to get a comprehensive understanding of risk factors of ED. Fourth, some factors were not listed in the questionnaire, which were commonly used in ED research, such as previous diagnosed of CP/CPPS, anxiety, depression... Minor points: In the abstract-methods: what is the definition of “relatively healthy males”? Scientific paper is not easy to accept unclear words, such as “relatively”, and “about 35.6%” in abstract-conclusion part. References were not new and required to be up-dated. 