The title accurately describes the contents of the paper, and the abstract describes the findings and main conclusions well.The analysis of the selected markers in adult zebrafish telencephalon, particularly the pallium as is done here, is important for any functional studies on the zf brain.The study thus forms a good basis for further studies on adult fish brain. I have some comments on the controls below. Whereas the adult part is of high quality and will be very helpful in further analysis of e.g. circuits (which are essential to understand the functional significance of the results) and behavior, the developmental part could be improved. Some detailed comments: It needs to be indicated how the probe specificity has been verified. No probe-controls cannot replace a non-reacting probe control such as sense probe or partly scrambled probe controls, because occasionally probes bind non-specifically to e.g. proteins. From the point of view of the conclusions regarding correlation to telencephalic areas of other species, the developmental part in the study could be improved. Although mentioned in the abstract, only a limited dataset is shown at 7 dpf (on p. 4, last chapter), and even here the data is difficult to find because the title indicates only analysis of adults.The age/stage of the samples is not indicated in Fig. S3, and the samples look earlier than 7 dpf. It would be particularly useful to see a series a developmental series in a set of images in which the brain domains could be easily identified. In this respect Fig.S3 is of limited value. The resolution is not very good, and clearly better figures could be provided. At least from 5 dpf on the brains are easily prepared from the skull and penetration is excellent. Adding data on the developmental expression series would significantly improve the paper. Whole brain ish can be easily done on even 1-month-old fish. The data during the whole first week, or (even better) two weeks would be useful. In summary, the adult data is very useful and only a note on controls should be added. The developmental data could be improved to the same high level as the adult data.