The manuscript by Khomtchouk et al introduces geneXtendeR, a new tool for annotating ChIP-seq peaks, and more specifically, the peaks that show differential enrichment between experimental conditions, by providing possible links to genes in the genomic vicinity of each peak. The main novelty of this method is the "extension" algorithm for assigning possible cis-regulated genes to each peak, which provides additional flexibility in terms of the cutoff of the distance form a gene and includes the genes that are not the closest to the peak. The biological intuition behind this approach is sound and based on the well-known facts that (a) the binding loci of regulatory proteins and the regions of enrichment of chromatin marks that are involved in the regulation of gene activity often do not conform to standard cutoffs of distance to the transcription start site or gene body (confirmed in Fig. 1,3,4), and (b) enhancers and other regulatory elements often affect the activity of a gene that is not the closest to this element. The manuscript provides a general justification of the approach and an overall description of the method itself. However, one part that can definitely be improved is the description of the results that the user can expect and a clear explanation, with examples, of how the user can interpret these results and generate specific biological hypotheses about the involvement of a protein or chromatin mark in the regulation of a specific gene or a group of genes. It seems that reference 40 includes an example of application of this method to a specific experimental dataset, and Fig. 5 is an example of functional annotation of promoters, but a clearly described user case showing the input, output, interpretation, and biological conclusions would be important. Another part that is unclear to me is how the user should interpret the multiple sets of 1st, 2nd, 3rd etc closest gene for a specific peak set. How one should approach selecting the most relevant gene set among these multiple options? An informative example may help clarify this point. 