Interpretation of genomic variants in the clinic for the diagnosis of genetic diseases is a current challenge of bioinformatics and medical genomics. The evaluation of the performance of molecular diagnostics will be beneficial in practice. Even though the study addresses a timely problem, the authors did not fully present the current research in the area. Review of state of the art and discussions in the literature is missing. Variant interpretation for single-gene diseases and complex genetic diseases require different methodologies, thus present different challenges. In this study, obesity, a complex genetic phenotype, selected as the study case. However, the analysis only focuses on selected few SNPs as if these phenotypes present a single gene or multigenic inheritance. GWAS is the fundamental analysis technique for complex genetic phenotypes allowing genotyping of millions of variants from individual participants. As authors also concluded, descriptive statistics have limitations in the analysis of complex genetic diseases and identifying associated SNP profiles in post-GWAS research. In the last ten years, post-GWAS analysis based on data mining techniques are under investigation, and there is an expanding literature on using data mining approaches. When a wide set of variants (SNP profiles) selected as features in predictive studies, models only based on genomic variants can outperform phenotype-based predictions or hybrid models combining genetic, clinical, and environmental factors. In light of this information designing a study base on basic statistical approaches is a major limitation of the study. An additional concern is the random generation of synthetic individual genotypes. Authors do not account for the linkage disequilibrium between SNPs, or population frequencies of individual SNPs while randomly generating the synthetic genotyping data. Expanding the discussion on why descriptive statistics fail for complex genetic diseases, such as obesity and type-II diabetes, and need to study risk profiles rather than single individual risk SNPs will be much more beneficial to the community. 