The article presents a new tool for finding the k-nearest neighbouring genes for a set of ChIP-seq peaks or other type of genomic feature. The idea is not particularly novel (it sounds a lot like bedtools closest -k, contrary to what the paper says), but the tool appears to be useful. Most of my concerns are around the organization of the article and how it describes the software. The Introduction is well written and makes a good case for the tool. It could also incorporate some of the figures and data-driven arguments that come later (or those could go into the Discussion). It is strange how the Methods section begins with Implementation (what about abstractly describing the method?) but even stranger how the Implementation section includes arguments for why the method is important (e.g., Figure 1). The Results spends too much time arguing for why finding the k-nearest points is abstractly useful (there being no obvious cut-off). The paper would be strengthened by describing some interesting biological results, such as a meaningful/validated regulatory relationship not discovered by less flexible tools. Maybe these are described in the vignettes but it would be good to highlight them here. The actual examples can stay in the vignettes, but it would be nice to have the salient features described in this section, rather than Discussion. Since “optimized” is emphasized in the title, it would be good to have some details on performance here. The Discussion should focus on limitations of the tool, potential integration points, and other topics that transcend the tool and method. It seems that the alcohol dataset belongs in Results. I’m not sure I agree that this is a “critical first step” when there are many tools that find the closest gene; this one just finds the n-closest. I wonder whether it would have been simpler (if a bit less efficient) to just find all genes within a wide margin of the peaks and then restrict those to the closest ‘k’. The iterative overlap finding, implemented in C, sounds complicated. I’m also concerned about the package having so many dependencies, including both dplyr and data.table in addition to Bioconductor. 