 Steinstrasse is a legacy of SWL (Does ureteral stenting prior to shock wave lithotripsy influence the need for intervention in steinstrasse and related complications? (Ather et al. , 2009 1 )) and RIRS for larger stones is no different from performing SWL under endoscopy. The authors should discuss this point. Conclusions are contrary to the case account. The conclusions should be that larger stones (Staghorn) would preferably not be treated by RIRS. Few minor issues: In the abstract I don’t agree with the word “compulsory” - a more preferable alternative would be “desirable" or “important” etc. RIRS is not mentioned as a treatment option for large kidney stones. Mention other complications of the use of RIRS besides steinstrasse for large renal stones. The phrase “RIRS to remove a staghorn stone” in the abstract is not an appropriate reflection of the abilities of RIRS in that set up. There are many grammatical errors that need attention. The authors used the phrase “which led to depression in the patient after the use of RIRS for staghorn stone removal”. This needs to be rephrased for clarity as to what the authors are implying. Are they saying prolonged treatment causes psychological issues, like depression? Please cite a reference. In the case presentation, the authors write “multiple stones along his right urogenital system” - this needs to be rewritten for clarity. Stones were in the collecting system of the right kidney. With the limited access to single section I disagree with the authors' interpretation of the CT. I see a Staghorn stone with a major component in the renal pelvis and branching calculi in lower and middle pole calyces. There is dilatation and obstruction with ballooning of the upper pole calyx due obstruction of the infundibulum of the upper pole calyx. There is no cyst visible in these scans. It is grade three, not third grade hydronephrosis, which is incidentally also not clear in the CT cut shown. The authors should avoid using term “genitourinary”. What is the stone composition? 