I appreciate the changes make along the introduction, because the objective of the present study is now more clear. Although the manuscript was improved considerably, there is still a big problem with the data analysis, mainly in reads filtering. Now that you have included a mock community sample, you need to use this sample to adapt the parameters of reads filtering, clustering step (I asume you have done some kind of clustering since you talk about singletons) and taxonomic assignation until you have the number of species expected, 20 in this case. You can also have some less due to problems with species assignation, but it is crazy to use a 20 species mock community and say that you have 2571 species in this sample. For example, singletons (clustering groups or OTUs (Operational Taxonomical Units) with a unique sequence) are usually removed on metabarcoding pipelines, and in some cases OTUs with less than 0.1% of abundance are removed, assuming that these sequences are sequencing errors (and PCR errors in metabarcoding). Therefore, you have to estimate the minimum percentage of abundance to be considered real (and not due to errors) with the mock sample and apply this cut off value to the rest of samples. In the same line, to say that 2,507 and 4,597 species were found in vaccines is not correct, where you can expect the DNA from varicella (the other viruses are ssRNA) and the DNA from human and chicken cells used for culture. Some small changes I suggest: Rewrite or suppress last paragraph of introduction, which looks more appropriate to Methodology. Add some disadvantages of use metabarcoding approach (being the main one the bias due to primers, with over/under-estimation of some taxa, depending of the primers used). At the end of the samples description, you need to put what means SRA (and add the corresponding web-address). In samples description, grammatical mistake with human faecal (have to be human fecal). Remove this sentence from results: To ensure that our conclusions have a general validity, we selected samples originating from very different sources with different compositions, and sequenced them at different depths. Figure 3, with species and genus level is enough. Thus, the read filtering and hence all the statistical analysis have to be re-make. I not expect big changes, also at taxonomical level (where only a reduction of "rare species" and unclassified sequences is expected), but it is not convenient to present the results with such great over-estimation of species richness.