These analyses of potential cross reactive CD8 T cell epitopes between the current SARS-CoV-2 and “seasonal” endemic human CoV is useful and timely and the discussion is balanced. There are several modifications that I believe would improve the clarify and value of the manuscript. Based on the first sentence of the paragraph entitled “the possibility of matching linear epitopes…”, the authors sate that the two major arms of immune memory…are antibody and CD8 T cells” I believe this is incorrect, as CD4 T cells can directly impact lung pathology and contribute to both protective and pathological immune responses. In fact a recent paper uploaded to BioRxiv suggested that it was populations in the CD4 T cell compartments that correlated with disease severity. The authors should acknowledge that all three subsets of the adaptive response (B cells, CD8 and CD4 T cells) are likely to be important, but this manuscript focusses on CD8 epitopes. The authors refer to the “software owners” when describing cutoffs. They are perhaps better described as software “designers”. When discussing “Vaccine Potential”, the authors state that the secondary response is “faster and stronger”. This should be more accurately described, with some references, in a way that points out the higher frequency of responding cells during memory recall, and lower thresholds of TcR engagement needed for T cell activation, both qualities that contribute to a competitive advantage of memory cells. Because the nature of CD8 memory to the different antigens screened by the authors is not known, the epitopes identified may or may not be targets of cross reactive memory recall. Therefore, the word “expected” should be substituted for “Potential” or some other word that indicates that the epitope list includes candidates but not expected epitopes. I think the Table could be made quite a lot smaller and thus more valuable to the reader. The source proteins could be indicated as an abbreviation provided in the legend as could the various seasonal strains. The boxes could then be quite small, and either be positive or negative. In any case, an effort should be made to condense this table. 