The manuscript by Mubarak et al. aimed to evaluate the effect of G. verrucosa extract on Candida albicans biofilm formation. The rationale of the study should be clearer. Also, there is lack of essential information throughout the text. The English should be revised. Specific comments Introduction The period “Smoking is a common problem in most developing countries, including Indonesia.”. A reference should be added. Also, smoking is not a problem only or mainly in developing countries. Please, consider revising. The authors stated that “This fungus is part of the normal flora of the human mouth, but it can become pathogenic in certain conditions, for example, due to nicotine exposure.”. The exposure to nicotine has been correlated with increasing in C. albicans virulence factor expression. The predisposing conditions for candidiasis are much more related to immunologic state of the host and imbalance in microflora. Please, consider revising. Revise the period “Infection with C. albicans will increase the formation of a biofilm of the fungus”, it is confusing. Revise the period “The biofilm is an extracellular matrix consisting of C. albicans colonies”, it is confusing. The authors stated that “high dosages of nystatin give gastrointestinal discomfort and increase plaque formation”. What do authors mean by “increase plaque formation”? The rationale of the study is not clear. Why did the authors select G. verrucosa? Is this plant commonly used? Why did the authors decide to use saliva from a smoker individual? Methods Revise the period “C. albicans was extracted from the saliva”, C. albicans was isolated from saliva. The authors reported that “G. verrucosa seaweed was collected from a farmer in Pulo Aceh, Aceh Province.”. More information on the plant, the exact location it was collected from, the period of the year, identification procedure (how and who did the identification?), registration in herbarium, number of voucher should be included in the text. Please, revise the period “Saliva was collected by spitting into a glass jar (15 ml), then 1 ml PBS (0.01 M, pH 7.2) was added to the jar.” Why did 1 ml of PBS added to the saliva? What was the final volume of saliva collected? Was saliva stimulated? The authors stated that “If the colour of a colony was green, this indicated that the colony was C. albicans.”. However, the color of the colony in CHROMagar is only a presumptive test and phenotypic or genotypic definitive identification should be done. The inclusion of a reference strain is highly needed. Include the number of experiments/replicates performed. The inclusion of more clinical isolates from non-smokers patients is needed. The methodology of activity of extract on biofilm formation is not clear. Why and how peptone was removed from the wells? Why did the fungal suspension left in the wells for 5 min? How 100% extract concentration was obtained in the well (you already has the broth inside the well)? Why the concentration of 0.31 was chosen for fluconazole? Figure 1 should be revised. Note that optical density at 620 nm is higher after treatment with 100% extract when compared to the other concentrations. Discussion and Conclusion sections should be revised after the revision of the aforementioned points. 