I reviewed Effect of microalgae application on soil algal species diversity, cation exchange capacity and organic matter after herbicide treatments by Hastings et al. I believe that I have an appropriate levels of expertise to determine whether or not it meets an acceptable scientific standard. This study adds a proprietary algal amendment to agricultural soils prior to cropping and measures changes in pH, Om, CEC, and the algal-cyanobacterial community. While the idea is interesting, and there is a long history of research on algal or cyanobacterial soil amendments, I cannot recommend this work due to various flaws, some rather severe. Major comments: Most problematic is that the experimental design is unreplicated. The algal product is added to 4 plots at different rates, with a 5 th plot used as a control. Each plot has a high and low pH region. Measurements are conducted after application and again after 2 months. This would have been a much better designed experiment if there was at least some minimal replication (e.g. 3 plots of each type). The lack of replication really precludes most statistical analyses except perhaps for a before-after paired T-test analysis, and it is unclear to what degree apparent treatments differences arise simply because all of the plots are a little different in, e.g. pH. The formulation of hypotheses is weak regarding OM, CEC and pH. They can be inferred but are not stated. Also, the authors state that the primary purpose was to determine if the algal suspension improved species diversity of microalgae. Since this is obviously an applied study, readers will wonder why this is a goal worth attainingt the purpose of a soil conditioner the improvement of soil properties in a way that favors crop yield? Why would farmers care if there is more algal diversity in their soils? Figure 3 does not illustrate species diversity , it illustrates the proportion of isolates from the plots that fall into the broad taxonomic groupings of chlorophyte, cyanobacteria, and diatom. This may be related to evenness, but there is never any presentation of data on richness, so statements about diversity seem off target. Either the soil sampling technique is inadequately described or it is flawed. I understood that only 1 gram of soil was sampled from each plot, presumably a single sample due to its size. A superior sampling strategy would be to collect soil from multiple locations across the plot, pool and homogenize them, then conduct measurements on soil from the mixture. We cannot understand what is happening in an agricultural field based on 1 gram of soil from a single point in a heterogeneous field. Statistical analysis leaves much to be desired due to the experimental design. Before-after paired T-tests are used to detect changes in OM, pH or CEC. Presumably the authors included only the 4 plots amended with algae for this comparison. In doing this, the authors are ignoring their own design which amends algae at different rates, and its not clear how the control is used if at all. Also there are many reasons besides algal addition that properties of the field would change, notably the growth and harvest of a corn crop.how can they be distinguished? Presumably the algae were grown in a medium of some kind containing nutrients. Are they applied in a suspension of this medium? If so, how are effects of the algae separated from effects of the medium. A better design would also have a treatment applying the product autoclaved filtered so that the effects of the medium alone without the algae. Table 2 is really not conducive to detecting any patterns in the data. The discussion claims that the algal amendment had positive effects on the soil environment. The data presented do not support this interpretation. Again, it is difficult to know if these patterns mean anything given the experimental design, but I see: in high pH soils there is an ambivalent effect on OM compared to controls, in low pH soils there is no difference in CEC among controls and amended plots, in high pH soils some algal-amended plots have higher CEC, and some have lower CEC compared to controls, and in high pH soils some algal amendment rates increase pH (in contrast to what the authors state in the abstract). I just dont see evidence to support a clear argument that algal amendment improved soil properties for crops. Minor comments: Cyanobacteria are photosynthetic bacteria, not algae. If you plan to use the term algae to collectively include cyanobacteria, provide a definition. For example:.eukaryotic algae (chlorophytes and diatoms) and cyanobacteria (hereafter collectively referred to as ). In the introduction, the authors state that the use of microalgae has recently been suggested in a paper from 2012. I dont doubt that this is true, but the statement implies that this is a new idea. It is not. See Singh RM (1950) . Define the V4 V5 stages 