In this manuscript, the authors present a successful CRISPR/Cas9-HDR workflow in a chicken cell line for expression of eGFP as a bicistronic fusion behind endogenous GAPDH under its promoter. The work is generalizeable to other expression/tagging uses of CRISPR/Cas9 with homologous recombination, and will be of interest to the community working on genetic modification of this organism. The experiments are generally well-conceived and executed, however some concerns are still raised: The authors correctly point out that the introduced eGFP is promotorless and is expressed together with GAPDH. However, they also introduced a CMV promoter with the neo marker directly after the GAPDH locus, which creates the possibility of transcriptional interference and/or epigenetic silencing of the locus, since the whole gene appears relatively small, and the endogenous GAPDH promoter is nearby. This, and the modification of the locus in general, prompts the verification of GAPDH expression – do its levels change relative to controls? Does the CMV promoter expose it to silencing after prolonged culture? The authors should discuss modifications to the procedure that would allow for excision of the CMV-neo marker after successful integration (by loxP, for example). The incomplete labeling of Fig. S1A,B,C prevents interpretation of the integration events – are these mostly monoallelic or biallelic events? Derivation of clonal colonies may be necessary to fully address this question. Many of the figure legends require much more information to interpret: Fig. S1A, B, C – what samples are in each of the lanes? Fig S6 requires labels and a better legend. What cell populations are on the top and on the bottom –before and after selection? Fig. S7 requires a better description/legend. Which components of A) are relevant to the authors statements in the text? What are the sequences shown in B), and which primer sequencing are represented in the chromatographs? Was a single clonal colony raised and selected for sequencing, or is this a PCR product amplified from the bulk selected DNA? Minor concerns: Fig S2 I: what does the reference at the bottom mean? Fig. 3 shows microscopy, but the text (Results, “Homologous recombination…”) gives a measurement of GFP+ cells – 0.5% - how was the quantification done? These results should be presented directly. Methods, In vitro cleavage by Cas9 – it would be useful to include the concentrations of gRNA, Cas9 and target DNA, as well as the reaction conditions. Methods, first paragraph – the “Bai Y” citation is incomplete. Methods, “Targeting vector design” – was the DTA sequence inserted or already present in the parental LSLCas9-Rosa26TV plasmid? Methods, “PCR analysis”, third paragraph – the authors are likely referring to Fig. S1D for primers pair 3 as well. Results, “Targeting 3’ UTR..” – Fig. S2 is likely referenced by mistake. Table 2: Primer and probe sequences for ddPCR probes 1 and 2 are listed, but not probe 3 as described in the text. Results, “Homologous recombination…” – Fig. S6 does not show PCR analysis results. 