 General comments: Relevant topic for obstetricians and obstetric anesthesiologists with key public health implications. Authors evaluated success rate of different neuraxial techniques for PPTL. Retrospective study using small dataset from a single institution. Introduction: “Tubal ligation in the immediate postpartum period, postpartum tubal ligation (PPTL), is typically performed on the labor ward, but less than 50% of women that desire PPTL receive the procedure in the immediate postpartum period, despite The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) defining PPTL as an urgent procedure due to the limited optimal surgical timeframe1.” I suggest placing reference number 8 (Thurman) before current reference number 1 (Committee opinion no. 530). Consider splitting this sentence in two. Methods: Retrospective study of patients that underwent PPTL after vaginal delivery over a 6-year period at a single institution. I recommend expanding the definition of successful epidural catheter reactivation (e.g., completion of PPTL under epidural anesthesia with same epidural catheter previously used for labor analgesia and delivery). The authors should clarify who performed the chart review. 1 investigator? 2 investigators? The authors could include a pregnancy risk stratification (low vs. high risk) as part of their demographic data. Albanese et al. (2017 1 ) reported on the request and fulfilment of PPTL according to pregnancy risk. Anesthetic practices are likely to be affected by this variable. Results: The authors analyzed data from a very small number of patients. Overall, this section is very easy to read and to follow. Discussion: The greatest limitation of this study is the small sample size. Therefore, conclusions cannot be made based on this study regarding predictors for the success of neuraxial anesthesia for PPTL. Future directions could be added to the discussion section. The authors should consider moving the second and third sentences to the introduction section. 