Grant et al. provides a clever open-source microscopy platform capable of SRRF super-resolution microscopy. Open-source and cheap microscopy developments are currently a hot topic in the field and a number of contributions are available from various labs across the world. My expertise is in the development of Super-resolution microscopy techniques, including hardware and software-based solutions. This includes the SRRF super-resolution technique and I currently work in the lab (Henriques lab) which pioneered the method. Typical open-source microscopes designed for high resolution can suffer from a number of drawbacks: Mechanical stability can be poor and compromise the image acquisition by adding motion blur and sample drift Use of typical high NA microscope objectives can be expensive and require alignment of full optical train (objective, tube lens, camera) Sample movement and focus control can be either bulky and/or expensive The implementation of Grant et al. nicely combines a number of open-source components (3D printed elements, simple opto-mechanics and cheap CMOS camera) that makes it uniquely simple and powerful and provide interesting trade-offs for these common drawbacks: Use of the cheap and flexible OpenFlexure system for sample movement control and objective focus control Simple, single 3D-printed block assembly for the detection path of the fluorescence microscope Use of finite conjugate objective, doing away with tube lens altogether and simplifying significantly the assembly The super-resolution capability is enabled by SRRF, an approach based on picking up on radial symmetry of single emitter fluorescence pattern and correlated temporal fluctuations of these emitters. I do not know about the photophysics of NV and their blinking properties but a preprint from Narayanasamy et al. 1 shows their compatibility with super-resolution microscopy. Furthermore, the resolution improvement quoted and the images shown here are convincing. Using SRRF as a super-resolution microscopy technique is a great way to address the aspect of drift since SRRF requires only relatively short acquisition times compared to other super-resolution microscopy techniques such as SMLM and also allows the correction of sample drift at post-acquisition level. Although SRRF does not provide as high a resolution as single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM), the short acquisition times are more compatible with the plastic stage of OpenFlexure, which may introduce more sample drift than typical metal body assemblies. I agree however with Reviewer 1 that some measurements of stability and amplitude of drift on the order of a typical acquisition would be helpful. This could be easily done on single emitters such as commonly used TetraSpeck beads or the single emitter NV that the authors describe in the paper. The use of a finite objective (which is surprisingly cheap: 203 as of May 2020) with a high NA and a decent plan field of view for the price provides a great compromise between price and performance. This work constitutes the first use of finite conjugate objective to super-resolution microscopy to my knowledge. I am especially impressed by the quote of a FWHM of 300-400 nm on single emitters, especially since the objective is not quite working at the nominal conjugate. Is there any reason why the system was not designed to be at the nominal conjugate distance? It would be interesting to get some insight into some of the design choices made here for whoever would like to replicate the system (which I may very well do myself at some point in the future). The discussion about FRC is absolutely valid and is a nice addition to the overall idea of the paper. A few additional comments however: It is true (as reviewer #1 highlighted) that the illumination system is described only superficially, yet it is unavoidable to build an efficient illumination system for a good quality fluorescence microscopy. Also, the downside of using an illumination configuration coming from the top of the objective and therefore contributing to a larger amount of background light onto the detector should be discussed/mentioned Since one of the novelty is the use of finite conjugate objective, it would be interesting to characterise it a little further in terms of PSF size and shape (as preliminary done), flatness of the field, sensitivity (I suspect that transmission is poorer than high end objectives) and multi-colour capability (although the latter might be out of scope) Is the rationale for developing the new method (or application) clearly explained? Yes, it is a nice set of trade-offs introduced here, truly reducing the cost of high resolution microscope to the bare minimum, taking advantage of 3D printing especially, which I have not seen in other open-source microscopy implementations out there. Is the description of the method technically sound? Yes, the authors present a couple of experiments showing proof-of-concept and some performance. Are sufficient details provided to allow replication of the method development and its use by others? Yes, generally. STL files and other technical details are all there. Maybe a bit more info about how the illumination was set up would be nice for completeness. If any results are presented, are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? Yes. Are the conclusions about the method and its performance adequately supported by the findings presented in the article? Yes, apart from the couple of suggestions of characterisation of mechanical stability and microscope objective performance which would really nail down a full characterisation of the system presented here. 