In this manuscript Bhatia et al, provide evidence that suppression of the ATM signaling pathway in murine photoreceptors (PR) is a protective mechanism from oxidative stress/RNA:DNA-hybrid induced apoptosis. According to their proposed model, the high levels of oxidative stress PR are naturally subjected to, promote formation of RNA:DNA hybrids which activate ATM and result in p53-mediated apoptosis. Suppression of ATM could therefore have protective effects against retinal degeneration. They support this model by presenting evidence showing that: 1. PRs have higher levels of RNA:DNA hybrids relative to other cells in the retina. 2. Impaired splicing, that has been linked to R-loop formation in other models, can cause RNA:DNA dependent double-strand breaks (DSBs) in retina-derived cell lines, but not in neurons, which they attribute to lack of ATM and 53BP1 expression by the later. 3. In response to ionizing radiation, despite their lower DSB repair capacity, which is independent of ATM, PRs are resistant to apoptosis 4.Oxidative stress in cells activates ATM through an RNA:DNA hybrid dependent mechanism, 5. Absence of ATM delays cell death in a mouse model of retinal degeneration. Overall the authors present a large number of interesting data from experiments with mouse retinas and established cell lines (RPE and SVF cells). Their conclusions are consistent with the literature but they also report novel and even controversial findings. The data are well presented and discussed although in some instances a better representation and/or additional controls would strengthen the authors’ arguments. On the somewhat negative side, interesting as the data may be, the large number of issues addressed and experimental models used, result in confusion, loss of coherence and some issues are not addressed or discussed sufficiently. Finally, there are a few statements that should be phrased more carefully as they can be unintentionally misleading. Some issues that could be addressed include: The figure supporting the important conclusion that “ RNA:DNA hybrids specifically accumulate in photoreceptor cells of retina” should be presented in a manner similar to that in Supplemental figure 1. Can the authors suggest an explanation for the increased RNA:DNA hybrid levels in PRs? Clearly they cannot be formed as a consequence of oxidative stress-activated ATM, as they see a depletion of ATM from ONL. The authors propose that splicing defects (such as silencing or inactivating mutations of PRPF31) induce RNA:DNA-dependent DSBs in cells lines (RPE-1/SVF) but not in retinal neurons. In cultured cells, increased levels of DSBs (assayed here as gH2AX and 53BP1 foci) could be the result of R-loop dependent replication stress and fork collapse. The difference in DSB levels between replicating cells in culture and postmitotic neurons would be more relevant if non-replicating cells (i.e. serum deprived) were used in these experiments or, alternatively, analysis was performed only in G1 cells. Images showing foci formation (e.g. 2a, b, d, e) should be provided at higher resolution as it is impossible to see focal accumulation of gH2AX and 53BP1 in these figures. They should be similar to Fig 3a. The authors report an increase in γH2AX and 53BP1 foci in the retina of postnatal day 20 Prpf31+/A216P mice (text and legend) but the graph actually shows quantification of fluorescence intensity and the γH2AX signal is unchanged. The graph/text should be corrected. The authors use the inactive hybrid-binding (HB) domain of RNaseH1 to stabilize RNA:DNA hybrids. These experiments are central to the paper and RNA:DNA hybrid stabilization should be confirmed by S9.6 immunofluorescence. The statement that “Noticeably, ATM is shown to promote RNA:DNA hybrid formation on transcribed sites by removal of spliceosomal complex 32 ” is incorrect. While ATM activated by an R-loop mediated pathway can influence spliceosome dynamics and modulate DNA damage-induced alternative splicing, the influence of ATM activity on R-loops was not addressed in this paper. The authors report that oxidative stress activates ATM by a mechanism that depends on RNA:DNA hybrid formation. This is contradictory to the extensive studies of Tanya Paull (e.g. Guo et al, 2010 1 ) showing direct ATM activation by oxidation. The authors should discuss this. Also, a control showing that H2O2 treatment results in increased RNA:DNA hybrid formation would be useful to strengthen their conclusion. The statement “Clearly, DNA repair activity of ATM and 53BP1 depend on RNA:DNA hybrids” should be rephrased. While this may be true under certain conditions it is too general and can be misleading. 