Long term retention of neonatal resuscitation skills is an important concept that must be studied as there are many unknown factors that could potentially affect competency and skills retention. Educational efficiency is an important component of the Formula for Survival, which denotes potential survival being a product of medical science x educational efficiency x local implementation. The authors are to be commended to undertaking a study that specifically evaluates retention of skills in this population in South Sudan. However, while the topic is important, the way in which these authors have presented their data and results needs to be improved. My interpretation of the study design is that in the intervention hospital, HBB training occurred, and then workshop participants were evaluated pre/post and then at 3 and 12 months with the knowledge and skills-based assessments associated with HBB. In the control hospital, no HBB training was offered. Furthermore, in the intervention hospital, bag-mask ventilation drills were used to augment retention of skills over time. The manuscript could use some copyediting to fix basic grammatical, spelling and word choice mistakes. There is also some confusion about the secondary outcome of neonatal mortality, which the authors refer to as neonatal mortality due to birth asphyxia. In the abstract, for example, this is only called neonatal mortality. If this is asphyxia-related mortality only the authors could do a better job of determining how this specifically was assessed as the cause of death rather that something else. Also, some babies, like premature babies, can have both asphyxia and prematurity as contributors to their deaths. How was this sorted out? Further detail on the methods/results would be helpful to improve the readers' interpretation of the investigators' findings. With the delivery room observations and calculation of neonatal mortality, was it known whether the individual leading the resuscitation had been trained in HBB? Given the frequent turnover in such settings, it would be important to know whether the resuscitator was in the study protocol or not. It would also be helpful to know how many individuals in each hospital did not consent to the study; what proportion of health providers potentially eligible for the study in each hospital who take care of newborns were in the study? What types of health workers were included in the study, and did they have any previous exposure to neonatal resuscitation or simulation? What individuals refused to be in the study or were lost to follow-up? Were they predominantly one type of health provider? Tabangin et al. 1 showed that doctors performed better in simulated evaluations (OSCE B) due to having had previous experience with neonatal resuscitation and simulation training, which allowed their performance to improve at a greater level than nurses, who had not had prior experience. How was it known that the daily bag-mask ventilation drills were performed, and that the intervention group received the intervention? The CONSORT diagram was difficult to follow as the numbers did not appear to add up correctly. The authors could be much more rigorous in their literature search to support their arguments. Because of their lack of a complete literature review, the study is not able to fully analyze their results within the context of the previously studies and their nuances. I believe the study was done with HBB 1st Edition materials, however, the correct citation was not reported; there is a publication date of 2014 which would be incorrect for either the 1st or 2nd Edition. This is important to distinguish because the 2nd Edition has greater emphasis about an ongoing system for practice, an improved OSCE, and more standardization about giving feedback and debriefing after the OSCES. References 10 and 11 do not support their points regarding an immediate increase in knowledge and skills showing improvements in neonatal outcome. Some of the most important papers regarding retention of skills both in the short and long term after HBB training are not cited. These are referenced below. The findings that the skills declined in the intervention group does not fit with what would be expected nor with what has been seen in previous studies. It also does not fit with neonatal mortality decreasing if the skills are not being performed as well. It would be helpful for the authors to hypothesize why they had such markedly different findings from all the other studies that have been published. It also underscores the importance of knowing whether the intervention such as the ongoing practice and drills were being completed as desired. In regards to the greater numbers of babies being "assisted to breathe" during the study period - which the authors also referred to as "resuscitation" - could they be more specific about what this resuscitation entailed? Some studies have shown that fewer babies require bag-mask ventilation after HBB because more babies are being stimulated appropriately and respond to that alone. If they are referring to bag-mask ventilation, can they comment on whether the preceding steps to bag-mask ventilation were appropriately performed or not, or the health providers just went right to bag-mask ventilation? While the authors are to be applauded for their efforts on this study, major revisions are required before this study can be considered worthy for indexing. I am concerned that their studies are framed in a dangerous way, to suggest that ongoing practice is not beneficial for retention of skills, that goes against both common sense and what has been shown in other studies. The authors need to provide some justification for these findings. 