Overall, this article very strong, and is certainly publishable. The nature of the Opinion-style article gives the author considerable leeway compared to a research-based article. However, when the article is by an employee of a company and it describes that companys products, the line between Opinion and Advertorial can be thin. This article certainly does a good job of describing what altmetrics are, what the positives aspects of their use are as well as how Altmetrics offerings demonstrate those advantages. My review suggestions for this article all center around strengthening that separation for this article and making sure it provides more than just advertisement for a particular company and gives at least some sense of a broader product category as well as a bit more on that product categorys disadvantages as well as its advantages. I dont believe that this article should be about something else just that it needs to provide a bit more diversity of ideas and opinions to make it a little less lopsided. One way to address this issue earlier in the process would have been to collaborate on authorship of the article (and presumably the conference presentation it is based on) with someone at one or more of the institutions that participated as case studies. Introduction, the author goes through some of the strengths of altmetrics to give a more balanced sense of whether or not altmetrics (and Altmetrics) are worth the investment for institutions. The author should also address some of the criticisms of altmetrics that are quite common in the literature. The Bornmann article in the references also addresses disadvantages and they could have been explored. As well in the introduction, some mention could have been made of other companies that offer personal or institutional altmetrics solutions, such as Impact Story. The criticisms brought up in the introduction could have also been addressed in the Practical applications of altmetrics section of the article. This would make the whole article stronger, especially as opinion rather than advertisement. There is some mention of taking the Altmetrics score in context of other measures in the section, but these could be expanded. Finally, one small suggestion for wording. In the conclusion the word is used in relation to the conclusions drawn from the case studies. usually relate to research rather than opinion. One thing I would also like to see is a few more illustrations/screenshots from the various systems that Altmetric built with their partner institutions.