The paper offers a hypothesis concerning the "striking colouration of coral reef fish." The idea is that coral reef fish roam across complex/unpredictable background colors and patterns within a transmission environment which permits highly effective perception of a range of light (color) to a variety of organisms capable of receiving and processing the respective light waves (during daytime). The argument rests on a number of assumptions, leading to the conclusion that selection will not favor camouflage in such an environment, and thus selection favoring conspicuous signaling is largely unconstrained. I think there is a useful hypothesis described here, which points out several testable ideas. However, I think each key assumption should be more directly addressed in the paper. Otherwise, one can see that the entire "Hyper-Visible World Hypothesis" could come crumbling down if those assumptions are wrong. The first assumption needs more support: that coral reef fishes actually exhibit significantly higher color conspicuity or diversity than most other organismal assemblages. The entire hypothesis rests on this premise. Have studies tested whether coral reef fish actually exhibit such remarkable color patterns compared to other assemblages throughout the world? I agree that they surely must represent one of the more colorful, conspicuous, and diverse assemblages--but Im not sure they are so remarkable that they deserve a special hypothesis unto themselves. Itd be nice to see some support for this premise. If this premise were untrue, then there is no need for a unique explanation for the colors of coral reef fishes. The next assumption is that coral reefs provide a background of complex and unpredictable colors. I recall some studies showing low diversity of color during daytime and under ambient light for coral reefs. The author suggests that reefs are extremely colorful and complex, but Id like to see some support for this. I agree they do seem fairly colorful and complex to us humans, but I can actually think of a number of other environments which seem pretty colorful and complex as well. What have previous studies found regarding the actual background colors of reefs? Are they really that complex and unpredictable from the perspective of a predator? Or is the background mostly blue/green/brown? The next assumption is that coral reef waters actually are "hyper visible." That is, do these waters provide a transmission environment for which an especially wide range of color signals are accurately and efficiently transmitted? The waters are generally quite clear (low turbidity, high visibility), but air actually provides more effective transmission of light across all the relevant wavelengths. It seems to me that these waters actually truncate the red/yellow/orange wavelengths (to various extents), and thus are not "hyper visible" in that sense. Perhaps some further discussion of this point is warranted, as Im not sure in what sense the waters are actually hyper-visible, but rather the organisms within the environment are highly visible due to a combination of water clarity and colors. The next assumption is that many resident organisms have well developed color vision. This is actually quite well supported by the literature, although itd be nice for this paper to explicitly support this assumption as well. The final assumption is really more of a prediction: that selection will not favor crypticity in such an environment, and thus we should not see cryptic organisms (but rather the evolution of conspicuous colors, which is the heart of the hypothesis). I doubt this is as universal as suggested in this paper. There are actually many examples of cryptic organisms inhabiting coral reefs (at least during a substantial part of their lives), including many fishes. Not only are there many coral reef fishes which are quite cryptic (e.g., peacock and leopard flounders, scorpionfish, frogfish, many blennies and gobies, trumpetfish...), but also many exhibit some cryptic components, such as countershading and disruptive coloration (including false eyes for misdirection). The prevalence of countershading seems to suggest that some crypticity has long continued to be advantageous in reef environments, although highly conspicuous signals are additionally advantageous. Moreover, the authors hypothesis that crypticity should primarily be favored in relatively sessile fishes could be directly tested (this could be mentioned in the paper)--and if the author could support this contention, that would be great (that most known examples of camouflage in reef fishes are in relatively stationary species).