The rhomboids are a very large family of genes found across all kingdoms from bacteria to plants to animals. Based on what we know about the functions of these genes, which unfortunately is not very much at the moment, they often play critical roles in life wherever they are involved. Also interesting is that their functions are highly diversified, as mentioned in this paper. For instance, the human rhomboid family 1 gene, RHBDF1, was found to be expressed at significantly higher levels in breast cancer tissues than in normal breast tissues, with functions as different as promotion of G-protein coupled receptor mediated transactivation of epidermal growth factor receptor (reference 1), or protection of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha from degradation under hypoxic conditions (reference 2); both functions are consistent with facilitating tumor growth, however. RHBDF1 belongs to the group of so-called inactive rhomboids (iRoms) because of an apparent lack of protease activities associated with otherwise enzymatically active rhomboids. This group of rhomboids, having lost their abilities to catalyze proteolysis reactions due to mutations, seem to have destined in evolution to perform other functions, such as those of chaperones, with their abilities to bind to a variety of proteins conserved and utilized in assisting protein folding, transportation, and degradation. The paper by Powles and Ko is interesting as it addresses a fundamental cause of the massive variations of the functions of the rhomboid gene products. The authors carried out an extensive data mining operation to reveal complex differential splicing patterns of the rhomboid genes. Their findings indicate that differential splicing is common and substantial within one gene as well as throughout the gene family. Apart from the multiple transmembrane domains, the rhomboid proteins often possess a large N-terminal domain before the first transmembrane domain and a sizable loop between the first and second ones. The N-terminal and the loop are likely located on opposite side of the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, or plasma membrane of the cell, indicating that they have opportunities to interact with different biomolecules. In addition, in the case of RHBDF1 there are a number of amino acid residues within the protein molecule that could be subjected to post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and glycosylation. It would therefore seem highly likely that frequent and extensive splicing of the gene transcripts exerts considerable impact on the protein structures and thus their functions. Changes in the gene transcripts could also bring about alterations in terms of modulations by micro RNA and other non-translational means. The effort by the authors is very useful to put together a data base of immense and complex differential splicing patterns of nearly the entire rhomboid gene family. The findings should be beneficial to researchers in this field, even though many of the conclusions are speculative, as pointed out by the authors, because of the lack of our knowledge on the structures and functions of most of the individual products of this enormous gene family. 