The authors present a retrospective analysis of a cohort of patients operated on for elective laparoscopic procedures for colo-rectal cancer during two different time frames. The main change reported among the two time periods is the introduction of a new visual technology. From this point of view, we can call this a “before and after trial”. The information provided is therefore not comparable with an eventual RCT since the introduction of new technology makes the old one un-applicable. Thus the data provided, although coming from a retrospective analysis can be reliable. The surgical volume reported are adequate to consider the Unit where the study was performed a “high volume unit” solving the possible bias of the learning curve. The main conclusion reached by the authors is that operative times could be reduced by the introduction of a 4K technology. Such a relationship between technology and surgical time is interesting although partial and it is commented by the authors in the limitation assuming that “the estimation of the validity of a technology cannot be entrusted only to the operative time required, but consists of a much more complex analysis. However, the reduction in surgical time is a reliable assessment of the technological improvement reached”. Also, the idea of structuring a tool to inquire about the surgeon’s perception when introducing a new technology is relevant and should be taken into consideration for future studies. Reduction in intraoperative blood loss in the 4k patients is an important finding even if the incidence of post-operative bleeding is substantially equal in the two groups. From this point of view, the blood loss data correlates more with a precise dissection more than with the complication rate, scoring a point for the 4k technology. This trial is simple but clear. It describes the comparison in terms of surgical outcomes of two different visual laparoscopic technology in two similar time frames. It is an interesting attempt to evaluate the relationship between technical means and surgical activity which is oftentimes put aside. Statistical analysis are clear and well exposed. The background is fluid and contextualized. The discussion is clear and it does not assume more than what it should according to the nature of the trial itself. Limitations are reported and clearly understandable. As previously reported I think that this trial should be accepted for publication. 