 Summary: Athiyyah et al . reported the prevalence of norovirus infection during one year study of acute diarrhea patients 5 years old admitted to Dr. Soetomo Hospital, Surabaya, Indonesia. Reports of norovirus prevalence in children 5 years old with acute diarrhea in Indonesia are still limited. Therefore, this paper is highly important to expand the data of norovirus surveillance in Indonesia. Comments: However, this paper needs a major revision to improve the way of presenting and discussing the data as I recommend the following: The sample size is too small to perform correlation analysis. Only one GI positively manifested as moderate diarrhea. The authors should then not use “correlation” in the objective (last paragraph of introduction section), as well as in the title, this does not make any sense. The author can change into a more general title, such as “Clinical manifestation of norovirus infection in children aged less than five years old admitted with acute diarrhea in Surabaya, Indonesia: a cross-sectional study” or “Norovirus infection in children aged less than five years old admitted with acute diarrhea in Surabaya, Indonesia: a cross-sectional study.” The authors mention in the introduction: “Genogroup diversity can be checked using several methods including immunochromatography, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and electron microscopy.” Comments: any supporting evidence or reference of this statement? Norovirus genogroup is based on genetic analysis, so somehow it is weird that it can be differentiated based on electron microscopy. The authors did not perform comprehensive literature searching of the previous norovirus study in Indonesia. In fact, there are already some “key” publications in this field, but the authors did not include them in this manuscript. Please thoroughly check the referenced papers to improve author statement in both introduction and discussion section 1 - 5 . Please change “severer” to “more severe” (in introduction section). In the methods: Are there any specific reason to exclude 1 month baby in this study? Figure 2B, lane 1. Is it considered positive or negative? Because it seems a scanty, positive band there. It looks like Figure 2A, lane 2 which is considered as positive for norovirus GI. Do the authors include positive controls for each PCR reaction? The prevalence of norovirus in this study (about 32%) is higher than that of global prevalence (about 20%) in countries that did not include Rotavirus vaccination in the NIP. So the authors should ensure that a proper and valid PCR assay has been conducted. Please check: Ahmed SM et al . (2014) 6 . Figure 1 is not necessary, so please delete it. The authors mention: “Of those samples, 31 were positive for norovirus infection using the RT-PCR method”. Please provide the percentage of norovirus-positive samples. The authors mention in discussion: “This agrees with a previous study done in healthy subjects in Surabaya, Indonesia…" This is not a match comparison, because the previous study is in healthy, asymptomatic adult subjects. The authors should check the above papers that I recommended for much better comparison of previous studies in Indonesia. In the discussion, the authors should also discuss associated risk factors of contracting norovirus based on Table 2. For example, why did in your population is the most prevalent age of norovirus positive 6-23 months? The authors should add discussion about different severity of norovirus infection based on different genotpe of GII norovirus. Although they did not perform genotype identification in this study, the readers of this paper should still be aware that different GII genotypes can cause different severity of clinical manifestations. In conclusion, it is mentioned: “This study demonstrated that norovirus was responsible for 48.4% of diarrhea cases in the study group”. Could the authors clarify about the percentage of 48.4%? 31 out of 94 should be 32.9%. It is also not consistent with the abstract (I mention below). Reference no. 6, what journal that publishes this paper? The authors did not mention this. If this is not published in a peer-reviewed journal, it would be better to change the reference with one I recommended. The abstract: “This cross-sectional study involved 31 participants” -- please delete “31”. When you design the study, you never know how many patients will participate. “In total, 91 stool samples were obtained, of which 31 (19%) … “ -- please clarify the percentage. Also, is it 91 or 94? Please thoroughly check all the numbers and percentages you mentioned in this paper. Table 2, change “Malutrition” to “Malnutrition”. Also, please describe in the methods what the criteria to categorize this nutrition status are. 