The article is a detailed account of an experiment investigating physiological correlates of channeling, a type of mediumistic experience. Specifically, the investigators selected only 'trance channels' as participants, i.e. when discarnate entities allegedly speak directly through the mouth of the 'channel' (medium), rather than those individuals with more mental and intuitive mediumistic experiences. In addition to several psychometric measurements, the method included evaluation of many physiological parameters (EEG, ECG, respiration, 'electrodermal activity', voice analysis), during two days of experiments in the Laboratory, adopting a 'within-subject' design – comparison of the findings in the 'channeling' and 'no-channeling' conditions. Basically, no differences were noted in subjects' physiological parameters between the channeling and no-channeling conditions, except for the voice analysis, which showed lower valence and lower arousal in the channeling condition. The experiment is interesting and seems to have been well executed (e.g. appropriate counterbalanced design of tasks to avoid ‘carry over effects’, clear exposition of recruitment strategy and response-rates, sound statistical analysis), and the paper is well written. However, I have some specific comments, as follows: Major points : In order to avoid artifacts during EEG recording of the experiment, only mediums that assured being able to stand still during the channeling were selected. Additionally, being able to control when to start and when to terminate the channeling experience and having a ‘consensual working relationship with discarnate beings’ were also inclusion criteria. The authors discuss their results, in view of the few studies on the topic available in the literature. The findings (basically ‘no-differences’) are somewhat incongruent to most of the previous studies (pointed out in the papers' References), that have suggested greater arousal in subjects during the mediumistic experience, both in 'within-subject' and in between-group design (comparing with non-medium subjects from the same cultural contexts) experiments. The authors consider that the explanation for this incongruence to previous studies may be the more rigorous statistical methods they adopted, although recognizing that it may also stem from the un-naturalistic design of the study. In the present study, the channels needed to enter into trance but the communicating entities could not speak, except for the periods when the investigators asked them to read standard texts, so that the medium` voice could be recorded for analysis. This point is approached mainly in the Limitations section (pages 15, last paragraph), but some words about it should be included when discussing ECG data as well. The finding of differences in voice analysis, which is interesting and deserves to be confirmed in other studies, could maybe be tested with a more naturalistic (and perhaps more appropriate) approach, allowing the entity's spontaneous speech through the medium, and then performing transcription of the speech. This could then be read by the same medium at another moment, in the 'no-channeling' condition, comparing voice parameters. It can be anticipated that results of voice analysis might be very different if spontaneous mediumistic speech is allowed. Differently from what the authors state in the Discussion section (page 14, first paragraph), Hughes et al. (1990) have not evaluated theta, alpha and beta POWER pre-, during and post-trance in channels. Instead, they have evaluated “the percentage of time that theta (or alpha, or beta) brainwave activity was registered by the EEG equipment” 1 . This may have a different physiological meaning. I agree with Professor Tressoldi, it is important to include the results of ECG data in the article (mean standard deviation, statistics). The same for respiration data. Minor points : I wonder whether Figure 4 could be reframed so that it becomes clearer for the non-specialist reader. Last paragraph of the Introduction section: ‘distinguishing these two states as distinct’. This sentence seems overly redundant. Page 6, third paragraph: ‘confounds in many paranormal belief scales of belief’. This is probably a spelling error. Page 14, penultimate line of first paragraph: ‘considering may of our participants stated that it felt strange’. It should read ‘many of our participants stated’. 