 This submission is quite nice for experts, but not particularly well-written for those outside of the field of 4E-BP1 phosphorylation, who will have difficulty reading it ; hence my suggested clarifications below. The article is important as it demonstrates that the use of mTOR-kinase domain inhibitors would be more efficacious than the use of rapamycin analogs as therapeutics. The work clarifies that phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 at Ser65 by mTOR is not required to inhibit 4E-BP1 binding to eIF4E and that rapamycin-insensitive mTOR-mediated phosphorylation at 4E-BP1 Thr46 is sufficient to inhibit 4E-BP1 binding to eIF4E. Phosphorylation at 4E-BP1 Thr37 is also shown to be rapamycin-insensitive. Notably, evidence that phosphorylation at Thr 37 or Thr 46 appears to be required for phosphorylation at Thr 70 and Ser 65 supported the notion that the earlier phosphorylation events were key to promoting translation. Improvement Suggestions: Page 2, first paragraph, last sentence. The meaning of “4E-BP-dependent phenotypes” is not particularly clear. Page 2, line four of Materials and Methods. Shouldn’t “32″ be superscript? Page 2, last paragraph. The statement “Here, six differentially phosphorylated forms (A-F) …” is confusing. Is form A really phosphorylated? Earlier in the manuscript, the authors mentioned 5 major phosphorylation sites. In Figure 1, the assay used in this Figure requires much better description in the text. Part A of the legend requires specification of the experimental approach. Also, the title of Figure 1 could be more useful if it were informative/conclusive rather than descriptive. Page 3, right column, second paragraph. The sentence “While endogenous… , suggesting that Thr46 phosphorylation is required for subsequent The37 phosphorylation under normal growth conditions.” is misleading since 4E-BP1 mutant (Thr46Ala) is clearly phosphorylated at Thr37 in Fig. 2A middle panel. With the data presented here the reader is left wondering whether the differences in detecting HA-4E-BP1 (T37A) or HA-4E-BP1 (T46A) might be simply due to different affinities of the (The37/46) antibody used. What is the difference between the middle and the lower panel? Are the antibodies used to probe the middle and the lower panel (e.g. phosho-HA-4E-BP1 (Thr37/46) vs. phosho-4E-BP1 (Thr37/46)) different or the same? When using cell lysates of stable cell lines and a phospho-4E-BP1 (Thr37/46) antibody, shouldn’t be HA 4E-BP1 wildtype and mutant forms be detectable in the lower panel as well? Page 3, last paragraph, line 8. “modulate” would be clearer if described as the specific modulations that occur – in the literature a state of 4E-BP1 hypophosphorylation. The author understands that the changes are complicated and clarified from these authors’ perspective in Figure 3 and in the Discussion. However, possibly, the reader could be better informed at this point of the manuscript. Page 4, second paragraph, right-hand column. Please clarify the effects and usefulness of etoposide and the meaning of VCP and, in the legend, VCP/Chk2. In Figure 2B, the authors should provide a control western blot of an unrelated protein which does not belong to the eIF4E-associated proteins under normal conditions to show the unspecific background of this assay.It is not clear to this reader why mono-phosphorylated 4E-BP1 (at position Thr70) is detectable in the non-Nocadazole treated cell samples in Fig. 2B (lane 3 and 5) when in Fig.3 they show that mono-phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 at position Thr70 is triggered by a Nocodazol-induced block of Hela cells but not detectable under normal conditions. In Figure 3, why did the authors mix Control and Nocodazole-blocked Hela cell lysates instead of showing them side-by-side? Also, why are there additional spots in the interpretation panels for Phos-Thr70 and Phos-Thr37/46 that have no counterpart in the respective western blot panels? This figure is already difficult, so the authors should be careful with the overlays. In Figure 4, all results in this Figure are not adequately described. For example, the authors need to explain the analysis of ubiquitin and its significance to their studies. The sentence “ …rapamycin-insensitive phosphorylation site is alone in regulating eIF4E binding.” should read something like “ …rapamycin-insensitive phosphorylation site is alone responsible in regulating eIF4E binding”. 