Llamas, Narzisi, Schneider et al . present the results of a pangenomics codeathon held at UCSC this March. Specifically, they detail their progress towards creating a useable human pangenome and a set of fast and reliable software tools for manipulating and working with pangenome graphs. They compare three different methods for building a pangenome graph (Minimap/Seqwish, Cactus and Sibeliaz), suggest a prototype graph coordinates system to facilitate comparison/conversion to linear reference genomes, improve short-read mapping by vg, evaluate their graph genome performance in various use cases and provide tools for annotating pangenome graphs. Useable graph genomes that incorporate known human genetic diversity would be an incredibly useful resource for a wide range of fields, so the work presented certainly should be of broad interest. Overall, the authors have made good progress on a number of fronts, especially given the limited time available during a codeathon, however I think they could do a better job of justifying their design choices, summarising their findings and outlining necessary future steps. The manuscript starts by comparing three methods for building pangenome graphs to “explore the potential limitations and advantages of each method”. I fully agree that determining the best currently available method is an important first step towards a human pangenome and progress has been made towards this goal. However, the SibeliaZ part of the pipeline built a graph using a different chromosome from the other two, which will make future comparisons much more complicated. The authors do not reach the stage where they can draw conclusions about the limitations or advantages of the different methods, but at a minimum, they should outline the future steps that would need to be taken to decide on a “best” method. The authors propose a new graph co-ordinate system as an extension of the GFA file format, where the major difference seems to be an additional file listing the alternative haplotypes. I do not fully understand the explanation of why the new format is an improvement over GFA. The idea seems to be to allow haplotypes to be updated “separately”, yet in Figure 4 both the GFA file and the additional haplotype file need to be altered to add a new haplotype, so what is the advantage of the separate haplotype file? Whilst the coordinates of the reference do not change from Fig 4a to Fig 4b, the coordinates of haplotype 1 do. Would it not be important to maintain co-ordinates for all previously defined haplotypes when adding in new variants? In summary, the selection and application of software tools and methodological approaches is scientifically sound, the questions addressed are important and interesting and the manuscript does a great job of explaining the potential benefits of a pangenome graph representation over traditional linear genomes. However, the manuscript needs some rewriting to clearly articulate what the authors have learned about best practices for constructing pangenomic graphs and what they see as the next important steps on the path to constructing a high-quality human pangenome. 