Dear authors, Many thanks for the opportunity to review your manuscript, reporting on the concordance between Nepali nurses’ knowledge and performance of clinical interventions included in the ICOUGH program targeting postoperative complications. The following comments and suggestions aim to clarify and improve the paper for the readers. Introduction I thought that the content was meandering from one topic to other. For example, the first paragraph focused on the prevalence of surgical specialities, but then the following paragraph touched upon the Nepalese human resources crisis, particularly on nurses (I would suggest not to use ‘manpower’ and talk about ‘human resources’). I think that it would have been very useful to learn about the prevalence of surgical complications in Nepal or at least, the 3 hospitals sampled. Further, the ICOUGH program is mentioned, but would be useful to offer 1-2 sentences regarding any potential improvement obtained by ICOUGH. Additionally, I think that it would be necessary to expand a bit on each of the components, particularly what ‘oral care’, ‘understanding’ and ‘get out of bed’ entail. Finally, readers would benefit from any information about adaptation/cultural interpretation of the ICOUGH in Nepal. It would be necessary as well to offer some evidence about knowledge-performance gaps related to bundles, and even how effective these have been or not. There would be enough room to include such details with a revision of the content related to nursing workforce, which is the lengthiest in the Introduction. Methods I could not really understand how the components of the ICOUGH initiative were corroborated in practice. The content mentions “We initially confirmed the practice of inclusions of all the variables listed within the I COUGH initiative among the daily assigned nursing task assignments in all these three hospitals”. Also, the authors talk about ‘short educational programme’, and it would be necessary to add further details about what the programme included. There is a mention to Ethical considerations, but there is no information about the selection, recruitment, consenting process, as well as the number of nurses invited to take part that led to the 101 responses. Results The authors could offer some further statistical measures, such as ranges, and if are compared across centres, then it would be useful to consider whether to carry out a comparison of percentages analysis. Also, I feel that the text could include the % of the most frequently mentioned variables. I suggest that the graphs avoid using 3D figures, which do not really offer much. Figure 1 should have axes and axes titles, and I am not sure about how well the figures facilitate comparison. Figure 2 should also include the missing axis title and remove the 120% if proportion of nurses. Each of the letters of ICOUGH should be defined. I suggest that Figure 3 removes the stacked results and presents 3 bars for each hospital, and same for Figure 5. This graph, additionally, seems not to have results for each of the hospitals… Discussion The 1 st para introduces data unrelated to the study or the topic, by talking about physiotherapists. The authors then shift the debate towards lack of staff but then also towards the need to ensure clinical leadership. I don’t understand the sentence “Nurses need to gain autonomy over their own practicing behavior in order to improve their patients’ clinical outcome” – what does “gaining autonomy” mean? The text is also confusing here: “There should be task organization skill simulations to improve their ability to manage such high cognitive managerial tasks” (what does “task organization skill simulations” mean?). Equally, this paragraph is not clear “Future shortages of nurses may be unpreventable, but making provisions for effec-tive interdisciplinary teamwork, coupled with pivotal approaches for determining quality insurance and promoting safe environments for patients, could help mitigate their harmful impacts.” Finally, the sentence “the application of care bundle approaches could promote the notion of “effective tasking through minimal manpower”. Needs referencing, and particularly the notion of “effective tasking”, particularly as task-based nursing is now and outdated approach to care. Conclusion Could the authors offer some more evidence that “Such initiatives [ patient focused care bundle approaches ] can promote health care provider autonomy on patient care”? 