The authors have created a useful resource that provides unified access to a large number of ChIP-seq experiments in arabidopsis. The database has useful functionality that would be useful for exploring TF binding. Each function of the database has example data that allows users to try it out easily, and the pipeline is available through github. The following should be addressed: The major issue with the paper is that there is an existing similar resource called ChIPBase (see citations below 1 , 2 ). The authors should cite it and compare their database with it, as it's not obvious what Expresso is adding to what it provides. A figure that summarizes your data analysis pipeline would be beneficial (I saw such a figure on the Expresso website). In the section on motif finding: did you focus on promoter regions for the peaks, and if so, how were those defined? The motifs generated by MEME were compared against those in the corresponding papers, and no motif was added if MEME did not detect a motif. How often did that happen? MEME occasionally misses motifs, and other tools could have possibly found those motifs. In the expression section, please suggest how the user should measure expression to provide good results. For that matter, please provide information on how expression of the TFs is quantified. Minor comments: There are some grammar issues that need to be fixed - see below. In the introduction you write that "ChIP can provide genome-wide information...". That is true when performed as ChIP-ChIP or ChIP-seq. TF-associated gene regulations -- regulation "ChIP-Seq in plant biology is limited": I think you meant that it hasn't been as widely used as in mammalian systems. I did not buy your explanation of the delay in adoption of ChIP-seq in plant research. Plant research tends to be a few steps behind, and furthermore, many more people study human than arabidopsis. "All the codes for preprocessing" -- all the code for preprocessing "results in 298 genes that have at least one significantly enriched motifs at least one peak located close to their transcription start site." something unclear here - "one significantly enriched motifs at least one peak" - should there be an "or" or "and" enriched motif AND at least one peak? And the word motif should be singular, and refer to a motif hit/occurrence. targets genes -- target genes "can be downloaded in the text format" -- in text format 