 My remarks are in italics. A major shortcoming at the moment is that it was impossible for me to track if and where changes have been made and I have very limited time to review as I am on the verge of traveling. If there is no clear indication in the authors' response that something has been changed I had to assume that no changes were made. If changes were made after all, please indicate where and how text was changed as is common practice for revised articles. Points that were not statisfactory addressed after this round of changes are: 1,3,4,5,8,10,11 and 12 1. The fact that data from the European and African regions are lacking is a major weakness of the article. I would suggest that the authors try to include at least the relevant laboratories from the African region. This work was undertaken by a separate group in the WHO AFRO region who have not agreed to share the results with us. We hope these results will be published by them. Please indicate this more clearly in the text and also flag it as a weakness. In the article you state that it is due to a difference in methodology. If that is not the case, please indicate so. 2. The authors use a list of 25 NTDs. Which NTDs these are is unclear. WHO uses a list of 20 NTDs ( https://www.who.int/neglected_diseases/diseases/en/ ). It would be good to indicate which list of NTDs the authors use. We have changed the number in the article to 20 as per WHO list. OK 3. Also: NTDs are a heterogeneous lot: parasites, viruses, bacteria, fungi. How realistic is it to assume that dedicated NTD laboratories exist? In most cases it will be one or more departments or groups within bigger laboratories. The intention was to included laboratories that dealt with one or some of the NTDs listed rather than all. The information gathered from this exercise was to be used to form a network of these heterogeneous labs. And what is the advantage of that? Unclear to me. 4. With regard to accreditation: the laboratories that indicate that they have international accreditation: is the NTD testing portfolio included in their scope of accreditation? Otherwise it does not count as accredited lab. The NTD portfolio is included in their scope of accreditation. Please indicate this in the text. 5. With regard to human resources: are the numbers in the table the total number of staff in the whole lab or the number of staff actually working on NTDs? The latter is the relevant number. This data was not recorded. Please indicate in the text as it is a limitation 6. Do the authors think that by identifying NTD labs through published literature they may have created a bias towards research-oriented laboratories? Many routine laboratory hardly publish their work (if at all). We did not only use published literature to identify laboratories but also used individuals from the WHO working group on Capacity Strengthening for NTD programmes who have a good knowledge of laboratories working on NTDs. We also used grey literature from targeted internet searches, for example searching websites of national NTD programmes. We also identified and interviewed key informants from international NTD programmes and WHO regional offices. OK 7. Introduction, paragraph 4: “The role of the NTD reference laboratories is to maintain their own accreditation…” That is not a role, but a requirement to fully function as a reference laboratory. Supporting others to implement a QMS is a role. We have changed the wording in the article to make this clearer (i.e. from role to function). OK 8. Methodology paragraph 5: “Overall 60 countries were identified as being affected by and prioritizing NTDs…” The WHO website (see reference under point 2) puts this number at 149. Please explain the discrepancy. This is due to not including WHO AFRO region. 149-60 = 89 and the African Region has only 55 countries according to the African Union. Please explain the difference 9. EQA programmes: I am not surprised that not many labs participate in EQA programs as I know from experience that these are often unavailable outside the big diseases. The ISO standard provides a loophole for this in the form of interlaboratory comparisons. Did the authors identify how many labs work with interlaboratory comparisons for their NTD testing? We did not collect this information. OK 10. How many of the labs have direct reporting for NTDs to the national disease control programs at MoH level? We did not collect this information. Please indicate this somewhere in the text 11. I am afraid that a network of NTD laboratories is necessary, but will be very difficult to attain: most LMIC have a severe lack of lab staff and a severe lack of funding for their health system in general. NTDs will not be among their first 100 priorities. In many cases NTD testing will have to piggyback on other testing and make use of the leftover resources of the “big” diseases. Also, funding for NTD research is limited and haphazard. I think building a sustainable network will be an enormous challenge. We agree that the challenges to forming laboratory networks are large and hope this article will add to the debate. Where is this indicated in the text? 12. I think that ultimately more qualitative research with multiple stakeholders (semi-structured interviews, focus group discussions) are needed to really understand how to best design and implement a sustainable laboratory network for NTDs. We agree that more work is required to better understand how laboratories might overcome the challenges facing them in building networks. The work presented here is a scoping study to help inform discussions about forming a network of NTD laboratories. Where is this indicated in the text? 