This manuscript provides an analysis of different features that could potentially be used as input for methods that identify protein complexes from pairwise interaction data from yeast two-hybrid screens. The manuscript is strong in using X-ray structures as a gold standard for real interactions and in performing parallel analysis of real complexes and pseudo-complexes drawn from reasonably realistic randomized networks. It motivates use of metrics based on clustering and connectivity rather than edge density or centrality. There are two areas where additional work could increase the value of this manuscript. First would be to examine which metrics perform better for the task of identifying complexes. A reasonable approach would be to use the different features to rank a mixture of real complexes and pseudo-complexes and to see which features perform better at ranking the real complexes above the pseudo-complexes. The second area would be to investigate properties of complexes that affect the performance of different features. I suspect that one of the explanations might be that some methods perform better for smaller vs. larger complexes. It would probably be helpful to look at performance for complexes grouped into size classes. Suggestions: In the Background paragraph summarizing other methods, which starts “One use for PPI networks”, I think it would be useful to add “patterns of connectivity as represented by stochastic block models” as a feature used for identifying complexes. I think these are the best-performing methods. Two references are Clauset et al. (2008) Park and Bader (2011). In the Background, the statement “Y2H assays reveal the presence of an interaction between exactly two protein” should be “proteins”. Also, it might be too strong. It is possible that a third protein that forms a complex with the bait and prey and is co-localized to the cell compartment of the Y2H assay could bridge the bait and prey resulting in detection of an indirect interaction. Given access to the x-ray structures, they authors might be able to discover whether any of the published Y2H pairwise interactions are likely to be indirect rather than direct. In several locations, false positives and false negatives are mentioned. It could be helpful to provide citations to estimates of false-positive and false-negative rates. Examples are Hart et al. (2006); Huang et al. (2007); Gentleman and Huber (2007); and possibly Cusick et al. (2009). Methods, Assessment: It could be helpful to mention that many of the Y2H assays were asymmetric, with a smaller number of baits used as queries against a larger library of preys. Some randomization methods have attempted to keep the distinction between baits and preys as part of the edge swapping. Results: Are some of the metrics more sensitive to the size of a complex? Can the authors provide some analysis as a function of protein complex size? Spatial constraints, for example, limit the edge density in real complexes. Clustering coefficients may have a better inherent normalization for cluster size. Results: It would be helpful to see how the different methods perform in identifying complexes. For example, suppose that the real complexes and pseudo-complexes are grouped together, and then the different features are used to rank-order the mixed collection. The ROC/AUC and PR/F-score could be used to give a rough idea of how well the individual features perform in distinguishing real from randomized complexes. Figure 2: It would be better to have axes that represent percentages to stop at 100% instead of 120%. Minor points: Abstract, “Saccharomyces cerevisiae” should be Italic font. Abstract, “subgraphs.We found” insert space after period. Background, “Proteins are a critical unit” change to “Proteins are critical units” Background, “contain both false positives and false negatives”. Might be better to say “subject to” rather than “contain” because the false negatives aren’t there, not really contained. Methods, “The code used for calculating the statistics of protein complexes can be found at https://github.com/suzanneg/ complex-stats.” It would also be helpful to provide the code and data sets as supplementary information to ensure continued availability of a snapshot of the material at the time of publication. References 1. Clauset A, Moore C, Newman ME: Hierarchical structure and the prediction of missing links in networks. Nature . 2008; 453 (7191): 98-101 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Park Y, Bader JS: Resolving the structure of interactomes with hierarchical agglomerative clustering. BMC Bioinformatics . 2011; 12 Suppl 1 : S44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Hart GT, Ramani AK, Marcotte EM: How complete are current yeast and human protein-interaction networks?. Genome Biol . 2006; 7 (11): 120 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Huang H, Jedynak BM, Bader JS: Where have all the interactions gone? Estimating the coverage of two-hybrid protein interaction maps. PLoS Comput Biol . 2007; 3 (11): e214 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Gentleman R, Huber W: Making the most of high-throughput protein-interaction data. Genome Biol . 2007; 8 (10): 112 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Cusick ME, Yu H, Smolyar A, Venkatesan K, et al.: Literature-curated protein interaction datasets. Nat Methods . 2009; 6 (1): 39-46 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Bader J. Reviewer Report For: Characterization of known protein complexes using k-connectivity and other topological measures [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 2 :172 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7362.r11072 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-172/v2#referee-response-11072 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 13 Aug 2013 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Sohaee N. Reviewer Report For: Characterization of known protein complexes using k-connectivity and other topological measures [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 2 :172 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.800.r3973 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-172/v1#referee-response-3973 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 05 Mar 2014 Nassim Sohaee , Department of Mathematics and Information Sciences, University of North Texas, Dallas, TX, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.800.r3973 This paper is a survey of the topological properties of known protein complexes and is mostly focused on k-connected subgraphs as a good candidate for predicting protein complexes in PPI networks. K-connected subgraphs have been previously proposed as a good ... Continue reading READ ALL 