Thank you for your detailed and thoughtful responses. Really appreciated. It is great to see the kind of electrodes that were used and that DC amplifiers were in charge of amplifying their signals, as is appropriate for getting CNVs, which are mostly slow negative drifts having close to zero Hertz frequency. Unfortunately, the limit of the digital high-pass filter was set at 0.1 Hz which is not great for this kind of frequency. Data have to be reprocessed using 0.01 Hz or even smaller. I guarantee CNVs will be larger. CNVs are the largest ERP ever found. They can sometimes be seen on the raw EEG of some participants, as their amplitude can be greater than 20 microvolts (thus, much greater than what is in the supplementary material of the version 2 of that paper). To this extent, CNVs require much fewer trials to get a decent average (I thus maintain my recommendation of a first processing excluding artifacted trials). Moreover, despite the references quoted in the response, I also maintain that the average reference is far from zero, going against the only argument one can provide to use it. This is, for a big part, due to the neck and thus to the fact no electrode can be placed there, i.e., below the head. Nevertheless, I do agree that, sometimes (as in Crago et al. (2019) 1 ) significant CNV differences (also predicting random events) are found despite a less than ideal technique. But, what a waste! As this is not the case here, I continue to think that much better CNV signals could be obtained with off-line re-referencing to a channel as distant as possible from those where max CNV differences are observed between conditions. Given the ERPs of the new figure with 20 channels, this should provide an opportunity to find simple and straightforward significant CNV effects that would be 100% reproducible by any lab. Using ICA and SVM is more sophisticated and, as such, introduce doubts... References 1. Crago RV, Renoult L, Biggart L, Nobes G, et al.: Physical aggression and attentional bias to angry faces: An event related potential study. Brain Res . 2019; 1723 : 146387 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Event-related brain potentials and cognition I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Debruille JB. Reviewer Report For: EEG anticipation of random high and low arousal faces and sounds [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2019, 8 :1508 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.23734.r57719 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-1508/v2#referee-response-57719 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 05 Feb 2020 Patrizio Tressoldi , Università di Padova, Padova, Italy 05 Feb 2020 Author Response We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestions, it is evident that all the given recommendations are focused on the improvement of the work. His main criticisms derive from the ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestions, it is evident that all the given recommendations are focused on the improvement of the work. His main criticisms derive from the different EEG analytic approach, driven from the different EEG recording systems. We totally understand that with a 32 channels montage CNV or other sustained potentials are obtained with mastoids or other references. In fact, in our previous work with 32 channels ‘Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)’, we investigated a sustained potential, that we defined as CNV-like activity, with mastoids reference. Nonetheless, with high density, and especially with Geodesic caps, it is the standard practice to use average reference instead of mastoid or ear lobe. Geodesic cap has an optimal channel configuration, including electrodes on the cheeks and also at the beginning of the neck, generating in this way an optimal head covering. That’s why using average references is recommended, for the mathematical reasons already discussed. It is also true that Geodesic signals requires a bigger effort in the pre-processing, due to the electrodes without gel. When the electrodes start to dry, the signal quality starts to decrease a bit. For this reason, it is a common procedure to interpolate bad channels, without removing epochs with noisy electrodes. In fact, by removing epochs the SNR would be dramatically decreased. By contrast, thanks to channels interpolation it is possible to save a lot of trials and therefore a precious information. Furthermore, in order to save information, we also applied ICA to correct blink instead of removing epochs containing them. We totally agree that CNV is one of the larger potential ever identified, but rejecting epochs containing blinks or other artifacts increase the risk to obtain a CNV coming from 10 epochs, which it is not reliable at all. For this reason, we still think that ICA correction is the best approach to use in this study. It is certainly true that CNV has been classically investigated by using a high-pass filter of 0.01 Hz, nonetheless there are several examples of recent studies investigating CNV, even inside our group, which used higher filters like 0.05/0.1 Hz (see the following references): Cravo, A. M., Rohenkohl, G., Santos, K. M., Nobre, A. C. (2017). Temporal anticipation based on memory. Journal of cognitive neuroscience, 29(12), 2081-2089. Sergent, C., Faugeras, F., Rohaut, B., Perrin, F., Valente, M., Tallon-Baudry, C., ... Naccache, L. (2017). Multidimensional cognitive evaluation of patients with disorders of consciousness using EEG: a proof of concept study. NeuroImage: Clinical, 13, 455-469. Jang, J., Jones, M., Milne, E., Wilson, D., Lee, K. H. (2016). Contingent negative variation (CNV) associated with sensorimotor timing error correction. Neuroimage, 127, 58-66. Kulashekhar, S., Pekkola, J., Palva, J. M., Palva, S. (2016). The role of cortical beta oscillations in time estimation. Human brain mapping, 37(9), 3262-3281. Mento, G. (2017). The role of the P3 and CNV components in voluntary and automatic temporal orienting: A high spatial-resolution ERP study. Neuropsychologia, 107, 31-40. It is also important to underline that the main goals of the study was to investigate the source reconstructed activity at the cortical level, that is possible only by using a high-density system. Reducing the EEG analysis on the 20 electrodes would dramatically decrease the spatial resolution of the source reconstruction as shown by: Song, J., Davey, C., Poulsen, C., Luu, P., Turovets, S., Anderson, E., ... Tucker, D. (2015). EEG source localization: sensor density and head surface coverage. Journal of neuroscience methods, 256, 9-21; Lantz, G., De Peralta, R. G., Spinelli, L., Seeck, M., Michel, C. M. (2003). Epileptic source localization with high density EEG: how many electrodes are needed? Clinical neurophysiology, 114(1), 63-69. On the other side, we understand the concerns of the reviewer. In fact, we probably misled the readers by focusing on the CNV potential. Our target was a sustained negative potential that in our previous work (Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)), we defined as CNV-like activity. We were not looking for a ‘canonical’ CNV modulation expressed over fronto-central electrodes, but indeed on a modulation of the preparatory/anticipatory activity which is usually observed as slow negative potential. This modulation could have been expressed over different electrodes sites based on the sensory nature of the forthcoming stimuli. In our case we found a difference in the pre-stimulus activity based on the sensory nature (face vs sound) of the forthcoming stimulus. Starting from this consideration if the reviewer agrees, we could better revise the manuscript substituting the CNV term with CNV-like or sustained slow potential. For the above mentioned reasons, we think that reanalyzing the data in the way suggested by the reviewer would result in less reliable outcomes both at the sensors and at the source level and would change the aim of the study. However, given that our data are freely available for independent and different analyses, we invite those interested in this line of investigation to re-analyze them. We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestions, it is evident that all the given recommendations are focused on the improvement of the work. His main criticisms derive from the different EEG analytic approach, driven from the different EEG recording systems. We totally understand that with a 32 channels montage CNV or other sustained potentials are obtained with mastoids or other references. In fact, in our previous work with 32 channels ‘Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)’, we investigated a sustained potential, that we defined as CNV-like activity, with mastoids reference. Nonetheless, with high density, and especially with Geodesic caps, it is the standard practice to use average reference instead of mastoid or ear lobe. Geodesic cap has an optimal channel configuration, including electrodes on the cheeks and also at the beginning of the neck, generating in this way an optimal head covering. That’s why using average references is recommended, for the mathematical reasons already discussed. It is also true that Geodesic signals requires a bigger effort in the pre-processing, due to the electrodes without gel. When the electrodes start to dry, the signal quality starts to decrease a bit. For this reason, it is a common procedure to interpolate bad channels, without removing epochs with noisy electrodes. In fact, by removing epochs the SNR would be dramatically decreased. By contrast, thanks to channels interpolation it is possible to save a lot of trials and therefore a precious information. Furthermore, in order to save information, we also applied ICA to correct blink instead of removing epochs containing them. We totally agree that CNV is one of the larger potential ever identified, but rejecting epochs containing blinks or other artifacts increase the risk to obtain a CNV coming from 10 epochs, which it is not reliable at all. For this reason, we still think that ICA correction is the best approach to use in this study. It is certainly true that CNV has been classically investigated by using a high-pass filter of 0.01 Hz, nonetheless there are several examples of recent studies investigating CNV, even inside our group, which used higher filters like 0.05/0.1 Hz (see the following references): Cravo, A. M., Rohenkohl, G., Santos, K. M., Nobre, A. C. (2017). Temporal anticipation based on memory. Journal of cognitive neuroscience, 29(12), 2081-2089. Sergent, C., Faugeras, F., Rohaut, B., Perrin, F., Valente, M., Tallon-Baudry, C., ... Naccache, L. (2017). Multidimensional cognitive evaluation of patients with disorders of consciousness using EEG: a proof of concept study. NeuroImage: Clinical, 13, 455-469. Jang, J., Jones, M., Milne, E., Wilson, D., Lee, K. H. (2016). Contingent negative variation (CNV) associated with sensorimotor timing error correction. Neuroimage, 127, 58-66. Kulashekhar, S., Pekkola, J., Palva, J. M., Palva, S. (2016). The role of cortical beta oscillations in time estimation. Human brain mapping, 37(9), 3262-3281. Mento, G. (2017). The role of the P3 and CNV components in voluntary and automatic temporal orienting: A high spatial-resolution ERP study. Neuropsychologia, 107, 31-40. It is also important to underline that the main goals of the study was to investigate the source reconstructed activity at the cortical level, that is possible only by using a high-density system. Reducing the EEG analysis on the 20 electrodes would dramatically decrease the spatial resolution of the source reconstruction as shown by: Song, J., Davey, C., Poulsen, C., Luu, P., Turovets, S., Anderson, E., ... Tucker, D. (2015). EEG source localization: sensor density and head surface coverage. Journal of neuroscience methods, 256, 9-21; Lantz, G., De Peralta, R. G., Spinelli, L., Seeck, M., Michel, C. M. (2003). Epileptic source localization with high density EEG: how many electrodes are needed? Clinical neurophysiology, 114(1), 63-69. On the other side, we understand the concerns of the reviewer. In fact, we probably misled the readers by focusing on the CNV potential. Our target was a sustained negative potential that in our previous work (Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)), we defined as CNV-like activity. We were not looking for a ‘canonical’ CNV modulation expressed over fronto-central electrodes, but indeed on a modulation of the preparatory/anticipatory activity which is usually observed as slow negative potential. This modulation could have been expressed over different electrodes sites based on the sensory nature of the forthcoming stimuli. In our case we found a difference in the pre-stimulus activity based on the sensory nature (face vs sound) of the forthcoming stimulus. Starting from this consideration if the reviewer agrees, we could better revise the manuscript substituting the CNV term with CNV-like or sustained slow potential. For the above mentioned reasons, we think that reanalyzing the data in the way suggested by the reviewer would result in less reliable outcomes both at the sensors and at the source level and would change the aim of the study. However, given that our data are freely available for independent and different analyses, we invite those interested in this line of investigation to re-analyze them. Competing Interests: I'm the corresponding author Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 05 Feb 2020 Patrizio Tressoldi , Università di Padova, Padova, Italy 05 Feb 2020 Author Response We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestions, it is evident that all the given recommendations are focused on the improvement of the work. His main criticisms derive from the ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestions, it is evident that all the given recommendations are focused on the improvement of the work. His main criticisms derive from the different EEG analytic approach, driven from the different EEG recording systems. We totally understand that with a 32 channels montage CNV or other sustained potentials are obtained with mastoids or other references. In fact, in our previous work with 32 channels ‘Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)’, we investigated a sustained potential, that we defined as CNV-like activity, with mastoids reference. Nonetheless, with high density, and especially with Geodesic caps, it is the standard practice to use average reference instead of mastoid or ear lobe. Geodesic cap has an optimal channel configuration, including electrodes on the cheeks and also at the beginning of the neck, generating in this way an optimal head covering. That’s why using average references is recommended, for the mathematical reasons already discussed. It is also true that Geodesic signals requires a bigger effort in the pre-processing, due to the electrodes without gel. When the electrodes start to dry, the signal quality starts to decrease a bit. For this reason, it is a common procedure to interpolate bad channels, without removing epochs with noisy electrodes. In fact, by removing epochs the SNR would be dramatically decreased. By contrast, thanks to channels interpolation it is possible to save a lot of trials and therefore a precious information. Furthermore, in order to save information, we also applied ICA to correct blink instead of removing epochs containing them. We totally agree that CNV is one of the larger potential ever identified, but rejecting epochs containing blinks or other artifacts increase the risk to obtain a CNV coming from 10 epochs, which it is not reliable at all. For this reason, we still think that ICA correction is the best approach to use in this study. It is certainly true that CNV has been classically investigated by using a high-pass filter of 0.01 Hz, nonetheless there are several examples of recent studies investigating CNV, even inside our group, which used higher filters like 0.05/0.1 Hz (see the following references): Cravo, A. M., Rohenkohl, G., Santos, K. M., Nobre, A. C. (2017). Temporal anticipation based on memory. Journal of cognitive neuroscience, 29(12), 2081-2089. Sergent, C., Faugeras, F., Rohaut, B., Perrin, F., Valente, M., Tallon-Baudry, C., ... Naccache, L. (2017). Multidimensional cognitive evaluation of patients with disorders of consciousness using EEG: a proof of concept study. NeuroImage: Clinical, 13, 455-469. Jang, J., Jones, M., Milne, E., Wilson, D., Lee, K. H. (2016). Contingent negative variation (CNV) associated with sensorimotor timing error correction. Neuroimage, 127, 58-66. Kulashekhar, S., Pekkola, J., Palva, J. M., Palva, S. (2016). The role of cortical beta oscillations in time estimation. Human brain mapping, 37(9), 3262-3281. Mento, G. (2017). The role of the P3 and CNV components in voluntary and automatic temporal orienting: A high spatial-resolution ERP study. Neuropsychologia, 107, 31-40. It is also important to underline that the main goals of the study was to investigate the source reconstructed activity at the cortical level, that is possible only by using a high-density system. Reducing the EEG analysis on the 20 electrodes would dramatically decrease the spatial resolution of the source reconstruction as shown by: Song, J., Davey, C., Poulsen, C., Luu, P., Turovets, S., Anderson, E., ... Tucker, D. (2015). EEG source localization: sensor density and head surface coverage. Journal of neuroscience methods, 256, 9-21; Lantz, G., De Peralta, R. G., Spinelli, L., Seeck, M., Michel, C. M. (2003). Epileptic source localization with high density EEG: how many electrodes are needed? Clinical neurophysiology, 114(1), 63-69. On the other side, we understand the concerns of the reviewer. In fact, we probably misled the readers by focusing on the CNV potential. Our target was a sustained negative potential that in our previous work (Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)), we defined as CNV-like activity. We were not looking for a ‘canonical’ CNV modulation expressed over fronto-central electrodes, but indeed on a modulation of the preparatory/anticipatory activity which is usually observed as slow negative potential. This modulation could have been expressed over different electrodes sites based on the sensory nature of the forthcoming stimuli. In our case we found a difference in the pre-stimulus activity based on the sensory nature (face vs sound) of the forthcoming stimulus. Starting from this consideration if the reviewer agrees, we could better revise the manuscript substituting the CNV term with CNV-like or sustained slow potential. For the above mentioned reasons, we think that reanalyzing the data in the way suggested by the reviewer would result in less reliable outcomes both at the sensors and at the source level and would change the aim of the study. However, given that our data are freely available for independent and different analyses, we invite those interested in this line of investigation to re-analyze them. We thank the reviewer for the precious suggestions, it is evident that all the given recommendations are focused on the improvement of the work. His main criticisms derive from the different EEG analytic approach, driven from the different EEG recording systems. We totally understand that with a 32 channels montage CNV or other sustained potentials are obtained with mastoids or other references. In fact, in our previous work with 32 channels ‘Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)’, we investigated a sustained potential, that we defined as CNV-like activity, with mastoids reference. Nonetheless, with high density, and especially with Geodesic caps, it is the standard practice to use average reference instead of mastoid or ear lobe. Geodesic cap has an optimal channel configuration, including electrodes on the cheeks and also at the beginning of the neck, generating in this way an optimal head covering. That’s why using average references is recommended, for the mathematical reasons already discussed. It is also true that Geodesic signals requires a bigger effort in the pre-processing, due to the electrodes without gel. When the electrodes start to dry, the signal quality starts to decrease a bit. For this reason, it is a common procedure to interpolate bad channels, without removing epochs with noisy electrodes. In fact, by removing epochs the SNR would be dramatically decreased. By contrast, thanks to channels interpolation it is possible to save a lot of trials and therefore a precious information. Furthermore, in order to save information, we also applied ICA to correct blink instead of removing epochs containing them. We totally agree that CNV is one of the larger potential ever identified, but rejecting epochs containing blinks or other artifacts increase the risk to obtain a CNV coming from 10 epochs, which it is not reliable at all. For this reason, we still think that ICA correction is the best approach to use in this study. It is certainly true that CNV has been classically investigated by using a high-pass filter of 0.01 Hz, nonetheless there are several examples of recent studies investigating CNV, even inside our group, which used higher filters like 0.05/0.1 Hz (see the following references): Cravo, A. M., Rohenkohl, G., Santos, K. M., Nobre, A. C. (2017). Temporal anticipation based on memory. Journal of cognitive neuroscience, 29(12), 2081-2089. Sergent, C., Faugeras, F., Rohaut, B., Perrin, F., Valente, M., Tallon-Baudry, C., ... Naccache, L. (2017). Multidimensional cognitive evaluation of patients with disorders of consciousness using EEG: a proof of concept study. NeuroImage: Clinical, 13, 455-469. Jang, J., Jones, M., Milne, E., Wilson, D., Lee, K. H. (2016). Contingent negative variation (CNV) associated with sensorimotor timing error correction. Neuroimage, 127, 58-66. Kulashekhar, S., Pekkola, J., Palva, J. M., Palva, S. (2016). The role of cortical beta oscillations in time estimation. Human brain mapping, 37(9), 3262-3281. Mento, G. (2017). The role of the P3 and CNV components in voluntary and automatic temporal orienting: A high spatial-resolution ERP study. Neuropsychologia, 107, 31-40. It is also important to underline that the main goals of the study was to investigate the source reconstructed activity at the cortical level, that is possible only by using a high-density system. Reducing the EEG analysis on the 20 electrodes would dramatically decrease the spatial resolution of the source reconstruction as shown by: Song, J., Davey, C., Poulsen, C., Luu, P., Turovets, S., Anderson, E., ... Tucker, D. (2015). EEG source localization: sensor density and head surface coverage. Journal of neuroscience methods, 256, 9-21; Lantz, G., De Peralta, R. G., Spinelli, L., Seeck, M., Michel, C. M. (2003). Epileptic source localization with high density EEG: how many electrodes are needed? Clinical neurophysiology, 114(1), 63-69. On the other side, we understand the concerns of the reviewer. In fact, we probably misled the readers by focusing on the CNV potential. Our target was a sustained negative potential that in our previous work (Duma, G. M., Mento, G., Manari, T., Martinelli, M., Tressoldi, P. (2017). Driving with intuition: A preregistered study about the EEG anticipation of simulated random car accidents. PloS one, 12(1)), we defined as CNV-like activity. We were not looking for a ‘canonical’ CNV modulation expressed over fronto-central electrodes, but indeed on a modulation of the preparatory/anticipatory activity which is usually observed as slow negative potential. This modulation could have been expressed over different electrodes sites based on the sensory nature of the forthcoming stimuli. In our case we found a difference in the pre-stimulus activity based on the sensory nature (face vs sound) of the forthcoming stimulus. Starting from this consideration if the reviewer agrees, we could better revise the manuscript substituting the CNV term with CNV-like or sustained slow potential. For the above mentioned reasons, we think that reanalyzing the data in the way suggested by the reviewer would result in less reliable outcomes both at the sensors and at the source level and would change the aim of the study. However, given that our data are freely available for independent and different analyses, we invite those interested in this line of investigation to re-analyze them. Competing Interests: I'm the corresponding author Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 27 Aug 2019 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Zheng X and Hu J. Reviewer Report For: EEG anticipation of random high and low arousal faces and sounds [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2019, 8 :1508 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22279.r54053 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-1508/v1#referee-response-54053 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 19 Nov 2019 Xifu Zheng , School of Psychology, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, China Jingchu Hu , South China Normal University, Guangzhou, China Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22279.r54053 The manuscript "EEG anticipation of random high and low arousal faces and sounds" reports results from a study involving anticipatory activity, wherein sensory characteristic and arousal level are experimentally manipulated. By using a machine learning algorithm (Support Vector Machine), they found ... Continue reading READ ALL 