This paper highlights an important issue in online instruction: active learning and technology and how they can be merged to fit into the current learning environment. As the authors state, there is a need for further investigation of this intersection. This paper attempts to fill in the gaps in this space. The video production intervention provides an example of how instructors can incorporate meaningful active learning into their classrooms. The results showing improved learning outcomes for the intervention group is promising and aligns with much of the literature supporting student-centered learning. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? The study is presented clearly and accurately. However, the title may be misleading because technology may not be the only independent factor in this experiment. The learning objective of the intervention and control arms differ on Bloom’s taxonomy of learning. The video production intervention is higher on Bloom’s taxonomy than the undirected self-study in the control group. Creation, as well as the other higher learning objectives on this taxonomy, has been linked to improved learning outcomes. This possibly confounds the intervention because the higher order learning objective may be responsible for the learning gains, not necessarily the engagement of technology. If the students in the intervention arm were asked to produce something on paper instead of video, Bloom’s taxonomy would suggest that similar learning gains would likely result. The manuscript cites many relevant studies but it would be strengthened by including more recent studies that address some of the gaps that the authors mention. For example: “This result corroborates many articles that have theorized that active learning is better than passive learning, and that using videos and other new technologies can increase learning. To date, few studies with adequate control groups have been able to confirm these theories.” Reference to Mayer’s multimedia learning principles could fill in part of the aforementioned gap. Richard Mayer is a cognitive psychologist at the University of California, Santa Barbara and whose research focuses on learning outcomes in multimedia learning with controlled psychological testing environments. The manuscript could be improved by including the findings on Mayer’s handbook on Multimedia Learning . If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? The statistical analysis and its interpretation are appropriate, but the sample size is small. Increasing the sample size is critical for improving the statistical power of this test. Effect size comparisons for each group could be added because the sample data is paired. Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? The conclusions are drawn adequately but additional clarification is required. The control group shows a high first exam score followed by decreased second exam score, while the intervention group shows a lower first exam score followed by an increased second exam score. This finding possibly aligns with the findings of a 2006 study by Roediger and Karpicke, Test-Enhanced Learning. Could the authors consider this paper and its implications in the discussion? Figure 3 indicates an important shift in the learner’s experience and the increasing use of the internet for study. This is an area that is important for discussion and further investigation. The questionnaire data revealed that a majority of the students were using the internet as a studying resource and that they believed watching the videos were beneficial for their learning. But it seems that students are also aware that more complex learning objectives can increase learning outcomes. Looking at the dataset, it seems that many students from the control group also indicated yes to the question shown in Figure 4. Yet, Fig. 4 only shows the responses from the students in the video group. Could the authors please clarify why the control group responses were not included here? Could the authors please provide more information on the instructions given to the video production group? Could the authors please provide more information about the four-hour lectures given by the professor using visual resources? Did the video production group also listen to the lecture? What were the visual resources? Did both groups receive these visual resources? 