This Opinion Article proposes a provocative idea that transcripts of Staphylococcus aureus contribute to an exceptionally high incidence of MED1 2 exon 2 mutations among human tumors. After providing an excellent summation of the current literature on demographics and characteristics of MED12 mutations in human neoplasms, the authors propose an intriguing concept: the involvement of mutagenic nucleic acids of bacterial origin in human tumors, based on the discovery of a Staphylococcus genome sequence of which the transcript may form an R-loop with human MED12 gene on the mutation hotspot. This novel concept merits further discussion among researchers of diverse biomedical fields. There are several issues that I recommend the authors to address. I. The importance of the idea would increase if the following issues are resolved. The methods of database search for homologous sequences and the statistical significance of the finding should be described. In other words, it is unclear how frequently such homologous sequences to the human genome appear in the genome of pathogenic microorganisms, and what proportion of such homologous sequences can form an R-loop with human genome if they are transcribed. The palindromic sequence is located at 30 bp from the 3’ end of tRNA-Leu on the reverse strand in Staphylococcus aureus genome. Since it is not a typical template for transcription, inclusion of references that suggest transcriptional activity in such genomic regions of bacteria would help further discussion by increasing the feasibility of the proposed model. It would also be helpful to include a discussion on the possible mechanisms through which naked transcripts of low-copy number in the circulation could possibly reach the target locus in the genome of myometrial cells. For instance, internalization of shRNA for RNAi is achieved by viral transduction or chemical/physical transfection of shRNA expression vectors. The authors may speculate the mechanisms that unfold the minimum free energy structure of short hairpin transcripts and facilitate the hybridization to the genomic DNA. For example, shRNA is processed into siRNA, and then siRNA forms a complex with cellular proteins to elicit RNAi effect. II. There are issues in data presentation Regarding the title of Figure 2: “Single and multiple MED12-mutation positive uterine leiomyomas”, the adjectives “single and multiple” could modify “MED12-mutation”. Adding a hyphen ( MED12 -mutation-positive) and using of “solitary” instead of “single” would improve the readability. Error: The labels for single and multiple UL groups in Figure 2 are switched. The graphs in Figures 2, 3 and 4 are the same data in different presentation format. The Figures 3 and 4 seem to be redundant. III. There are other factors that also likely contribute to the high prevalence of patients with multiple MED12 mutant ULs. A single hit on the active MED12 allele is sufficient for the pathogenesis of ULs. Human cancer cells usually carry multiple putative driver mutations even at the earliest stage. In contrast, most MED12 mutant ULs do not carry additional mutations, suggesting a MED12 mutation is sufficient to drive UL pathogenesis. Since the MED12 is on X-chromosome, a single hit on the active allele of MED12 has dominant effect. Hence, the development of UL through MED12 mutations should occur at a significantly higher rate compared to the neoplasms that require multiple genetic lesions for pathogenesis. Diversity of pathogenic MED12 mutations increases the prevalence of MED12 -mutant ULs. Generally, driver missense mutations of human neoplasms are very specific. For instance, nearly all adult-type granulosa cell tumors carry FOXL2 c.402CG (C134W) missense mutation. While single base replacements in the hotspot triplet bases can also result in conversion of C134 to F, S, Y, R and G, only C134W is pathogenic. In contrast, a variety of MED12 mutations, ≥ 10 missense and 30 indel mutations, are associated with ULs. For instance, missense mutations that convert MED12 G44 to D, S, V, R, C and A are all pathogenic. Hence, even if the mutation rate per nucleotide is equal throughout the human genome, the incidence of pathogenic MED12 mutations should be many times higher than other pathogenic mutations. UL is a hormone dependent tumor. Another key factor that this Opinion Article does not address is the systemic hormonal environment. The pathogenesis of UL depends on estrogen and progesterone. Since ULs are counted only when they grow to a grossly recognizable size, patients with endocrine profiles favorable to the growth of ULs should have a higher number of tumors even if the incidence of pathogenic mutations in myometrial cells is equal among all women. Discussion of these factors is not essential, as the model proposed in this article would work independently. Nevertheless, these additions would help balance the discussion. 