The commentary by Chakraborty et al. focuses on the important topics of understanding and modeling enzyme promiscuity, and raises some intriguing points about the importance of local electrostatic effects (beyond structure alone) on enzyme activity. However, the commentary is quite tightly focused on protease-type activity in different scaffolds, and even more so on the authors’ own work. This manuscript would be improved by providing more context on how their previous work relates to other studies of AP promiscuity/polyspecificity (including in particular the work of the Herschlag and Hollfelder groups) and electrostatic approaches to enzyme mechanism (Warshel, Houk, and many others). This would broaden the potential audience for this commentary, which as it stands is rather narrow. Moving on to specifics, I am unconvinced by the use of protease inhibitors as a test of bona fide protease activity in several of the works discussed. The fact that a particular compound inhibits an enzyme does not necessarily mean that it resembles a substrate, or that the enzyme’s mode of action resembles that of the compound’s other targets. On the other hand, as the authors acknowledge, the absence of inhibition by a particular compound is not enough to demonstrate the lack of a particular activity or functional motif. These assays thus have significant risks of both false positives and false negatives, and these should be explicitly discussed. What we are left with are apparently observations of protease activity both by enzymes predicted to have SPASE activity (shrimp and E. coli APs, and PI-PLC) and by those predicted to lack it (PC-PLC and CPA) – unfortunately, not very strong evidence for the power of their approach. The authors should discuss these issues and their potential solutions. In Table 1, it is not clear what 1A0J is. Also, it is not clear what the criteria are for either spatial or potential congruence. More broadly, it is difficult to assess the frequency of SPASE-compatible triads in proteins in general from just 3 examples. Is it feasible for the authors to estimate the frequency of spatial and potential congruence in a larger set of protein structures (or even the entire PDB)?