This is an article which one eventually learns is about the BRICS system, developed for NINDS by software consultants at General Dynamics and Sapient. It is poorly organized, and seems to take little care to actually explain the system's motivation and use in a coherent fashion understandable to the reader. The authors begin with an overgeneralized and basically non-informative abstract and introduction which make a number of broad statements about translational research and its requirements for enabling informatics. But one does not discover the actual real focused topic of the article until far down in the text. One does not learn, for example, until page 8, the specific motivation of the system: "The initial deployment of BRICS was to support the U.S. Department of Defense’s (DoD) and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Strokes (NINDS), FITBIR project. The core functionalities for FITBIR were reusable for developing PDBP, as well other biomedical programs." Obviously there has been a major software development effort conducted by contractors funded and managed by NINDS, and this article is attempting to report on what was accomplished. The implementation is not interesting in itself, using mostly 20-year-old technology. However, the scale of the software effort and its importance to researchers working on certain NIH funded projects, would seem to require something far better as a report out, whether or not it was accepted by a peer-reviewed journal. Crucial rationales for technical decisions made, and contexts in which the system is used, are omitted or poorly motivated, or described inaccurately. For example, we learn on page 4 that: "The Data Layer consists of open source databases such as PostgreSQL, Virtuoso databases, file servers, and data persistence frameworks." Virtuoso is not an open-source database. It is an enterprise-class RDF graph store. Nowhere up to now has the need for an RDF graph store been explained, and it is not touched on again until page 6, where we learn that: "The raw data is processed through the ‘NextGen Connect’ tool (integrated interface engine) and Resource Description Framework (RDF) data interchange tool." And that is all we ever learn about the use of RDF or any related semantic technologies in this system. Are there OWL Ontologies involved? Why was the decision made to use them and which ones were selected? Why is Virtuoso used in conjunction with PostgreSQL relational store? What makes this combination necessary? We hear nothing of this. This reviewer prepared a line-by-line discussion of the text which can be found here . Suffice it to say that there are many significant issues with this article - issues of poor exposition, lack of required detail or context, imprecision, or simply misleading statements. Another example: "The Meta Study module is used for meta-analysis of the data as well as a collaboration tool between scientific groups. " That sentence is all we ever hear of the ability to perform meta-analysis, or any of the challenges it poses. Or this: "Deploying in the cloud environment enhances data access, sharing, and reuse of biomedical research data at larger scale". In fact the reason to deploy things in the cloud is for rapid horizontal and vertical scaling. lt has nothing to do with data sharing and reuse. The authors cite an article by one of them (Navale Bourne 2018), to back up their incorrect claim - but that article directly contradicts this claim. I strongly recommend to the authors that they engage a high-quality technical writing firm competent in bioinformatics to revise the text, paying close attention to precision, providing needed context for technical choices, context of usage and overall motivation of the system, and in general, thoughtful informative exposition. 