The authors present Scavenger, a pipeline to recover false unaligned reads by remapping or BLAST-search unmapped reads that are similar to aligned reads. The false unaligned reads commonly arise from two sources: the actual sequence variation to the shared reference genome and the mapping to multiple regions. These reads are usually discarded in a standard analysis pipeline. The software can be useful to rescue unmapped reads in a quantifiable way, which can be important in many sequencing data analysis scenarios. Example usage cases are to study the expression of frequently mutated genes in diseased samples and in the mapping cases where a genome reference is not complete or high divergence to the reference exists. The authors comprehensively tested Scavenger using three simulation settings, 80 RNA-seq datasets from non-reference inbred laboratory mouse strains, 11 human and 12 mouse datasets and 80 single-cell datasets. They performed analyses on the effects of recovering falsely unaligned reads to downstream analyses and show that pseudogenes affect expression measurements. Scanvenger input files are FASTQ files, or mapped BAM/SAM files, and the software has functionalities for parallelisation on CPUs and AWS cloud processing. I suggest some minor revisions below: FASTQ read statistics like length and quality should be described. What preprocessing steps are required, for example trimming of N bases, filtering of low-quality reads? While multiple mapping and divergence in genome sequence are two primary sources of false unaligned reads, another common source can be from sequencing base calling error. The authors may add discussion on how quality scores affect read recovery. The tests for difference in the level of polymorphism between unligned and aligned reads are interesting and can lead to important conclusions. These tests can be improved. The sample size from a random sampling of reads (1000 reads) is small relative to the total mapped reads ( 0.1%), and t-test for results from 10 iterations is not suitable to test for testing the enrichment of SNPs in aligned vs unaligned reads. The authors may consider the permutation test or others. The authors may also consider known regions of the genome where more mutations are expected. The recovery of un-detected genes and effects on fold-change are interesting. The author may consider adding information or a panel in figure 5 to show expression levels of these affected genes before and after read recovery. Page 4: clarify "qualities" as mapping or sequencing qualities. Page 4: clarify "to reduce potential location for alignment". Can be useful to output total reads that can not be rescued due to multiple mapping. Tables 2 and 3, the unaligned category on the third column should be a part of the source execution. Add discussion on when Scavenger should be used as an alternative for parameter optimisation approach in STAR alignner. For example, on Pages 8 and 15, the authors dicuss "performing parameter optimisation is not trivial due to lack of ground truth", how does Scavenger perform better in the absence of ground truth? Would it be due to speed, accuracy and quantitativeness? Figure 3, add label A) and B), and description for panel titles and graph axis titles. Page 12, what single-cell sequencing platforms were used for the selected datasets. Variation in recovery efficient may occur in, for example, 3'-sequencing and full-length sequencing data. 