In this study protocol, Page et al. outline a project focused on exploring potential biases due to selective inclusion of results and missing results in systematic reviews of food/diet-outcome relationships. In particular, the authors have 3 main objectives: To explore whether systematic reviews selectively include study effect estimates in meta-analyses when multiple effects are available. To explore what impact selective inclusion of study effect estimates may have on meta-analytic effects. To explore the risk of bias due to missing results in meta-analyses. In the introduction of the protocol, the authors clearly justify the rationale for, and objectives of, the study. As the authors outline, if systematic reviews are flawed, the recommendations that could inform dietary guidelines could be misleading or harmful. Nutrition/dietary exposures are difficult to evaluate in observational studies, and numerous prior empirical evaluations have suggested concerns related to various biases. The study design outlined by the authors is appropriate. Furthermore, most of the methods are clear and are sufficient to allow replication by others. A few minor suggestions: It would be helpful if the authors provided more information about their search for SRs. In particular, the authors note that they will use a PubMed to identify meta-analyses. Previous studies have outlined difficulties searching for meta-analyses. Is there a validated search strategy that the authors considered for systematic reviews/meta-analyses? Other comments: In the introduction, the authors highlight that systematic reviews evaluating the association between food/diet and health-related outcomes could inform dietary guidelines. Have the authors considered limiting their sample to reviews that actually were used to inform guidelines? When selecting one meta-analysis, why focus on the first identified analysis? Could the authors have considered the primary outcome? Or, if the goal is identify potentially selectively reported outcomes, only focusing on those with results highlighted in the abstract? When looking at decision rules to select effect estimates: what if a meta-analysis includes multiple analyses based on different decision rules? It seems like this would make it difficult to evaluate selective inclusion? I am a bit confused by this statement "If no SR protocol is available, we will assume that no eligibility criteria and decision rules were pre-specified, even if some were reported in the published SR ('worst-case scenario' assumption), and extract all study outcome data based on how the outcome was specified in the SR." Why not use the information in the published SR? Would it be helpful if the authors discussed the potential bias index in the introduction? This is an important part of the study, but it is not discussed until the data analysis. 