The purpose of this manuscript is to determine the potential impacts of drought and experimental warming on the performance of vascular epiphytes in a tropical montane cloud forest. There is a lack of information about the effects of climate change on epiphytes in mountain environments. The use of empirical rather than observational data as well as exchanging space for time to demonstrate those effects is also very commendable since such data is extremely rare. Most studies of the effects of a changing climate on plants in mountain environments focus on changes to the tree line or tree species. However, the choice of epiphytes as experimental subjects in this study is also important, since in my opinion, they would be one of the first groups of organisms to reflect the effects of climate change. Epiphytes have a more direct link to atmospheric conditions and changes to those conditions than plants that root in the soil, and thus are more sensitive to moisture levels as noted by the authors. This study clearly creates unique data on the impact of climate change on epiphytes and demonstrates an alternative, highly sensitive method of detecting changes in atmospheric conditions in mountain environments. The article is well constructed and clear and the statistical analyses appropriate. Considering that this experiment was conducted in the canopy, the authors must have made a great effort to finish it. Although the underpinnings of this work are scientifically sound, and some results correlate well with data previously reported for vascular epiphytes by other authors ( Nadkarni and Solano, 2002 ), there are several major problems that I feel should be addressed: The time span of the experiment is only one year, which is too short. Microclimatic data was not monitored in the three studied elevations during the experimental period - which may obscure the interpretation of the results. There should be more species with different functional types, which could support the third hypothesis that different functional types (e.g. strap-leaf ferns, orchids, ericaceous shrubs) do not respond similarly to moisture gradients. If it is not possible for you to find enough species I would suggest not using functional types. I have provided a more detailed critique below: Title: The title is well chosen although I would suggest adding the location where the study was conducted (e.g. in the Andes cloud forest). As noted by the authors, Cloud forests vary worldwide, with differences in cloud base height and the proportion of moisture received by the vegetation via cloud stripping versus rainfall and High rainfall in this part of the Andes may mean that epiphytes here are less dependent on cloud immersion to maintain their water balance than their counterparts in other cloud forests. - This is not a general study concerned about all epiphytes, but a local study restricted to four typical vascular epiphytes in the Andes cloud forest. Abstract: The abstract is basically well written, but the summary of the main findings do not seem appropriate. In the paper, the authors summarize that Ramet mortality increased, recruitment decreased, and population size declined for epiphytes in mats transplanted down slope from the highest elevation, into warmer and drier conditions , which is not strongly supported by the results. In the results, the authors mention that Across all species, there were no significant effects on survival of any of the treatments for mats transplanted across elevations (Table 5 and Figure 2). For recruitment and population change, there was a significant interaction between source and transplant elevation (Table 5), with both positively associated with elevation for mats transplanted from 1500 and 1800 m, but negatively associated with altitude for mats from 1650 m (Figure 2). Different epiphyte species and different parameters showed different response to treatments and sources. The results are much more complicated than what you summarized. The authors mentioned that their reciprocal transplant design allowed them to distinguish between the effects of moving mats away from their home elevation versus moving plants into lower moisture conditions. As a key control, results concerned about the transplant effect should be included in the abstract. The authors mention biomass loss in the last sentence, but this conclusion was based on other studies (I guess it is based on Songs results), not their own. Introduction: Paragraph 1: I suggest adding a sentence to illuminate why epiphytes are sensitive to water availability and temperature. Paragraph 4: The authors mention Do epiphyte species of different functional types (e.g. strap-leaf ferns, orchids, ericaceous shrubs) respond similarly to moisture gradients ? as one of the objectives of the study. If so, why were only four species studied? There is only one fern, one shrub, and two orchids in the experiment. It is not possible, in my opinion, to draw any useful conclusions of functional types with such a limited selection. Paragraph 5: this paragraph is repeating much of the fourth paragraph, I suggest combining the two. Materials and Methods: The authors could provide a more detailed description of the four target genera, e.g., What are the elevational ranges of the target genera in the Andes? What is the abundance of the four target genera at different elevations (1500m, 1650m, 1800m)? etc. This information would be valuable to the interpretation of the results. Have the authors monitored the microclimatic data of the studied elevations during the experimental period? The details of this data are critical to the interpretation of the results yet it has not been included. Although the July climate for weather stations (Table 1) showed the general pattern of temperature and moisture level along the experimental altitudes it is not the microclimatic data of the study sites, especially as no data was provided at an elevation of 1650m. The time span of the experiment is only one year. Longer term monitoring (at least 2 years) at regular intervals (e.g. one year) would be much more valuable. In addition, I would suggest that the authors monitor other physiological parameters such as photosynthesis and chlorophyll fluorescence in their future work. Their conclusions would be much stronger based on these data. Discussion: The title of the paper is Epiphyte response to drought and experimental warming however, the authors do not mention warming in the discussion section. The authors should focus the discussion section more on how different epiphytes respond to drought and warming in this study rather than the reasons for the relative resistance of epiphytes to moisture stress. The authors overstate their results in some places. For example, they mentioned Vascular epiphytes transplanted down slope from our highest elevation had lower demographic performance when transplanted to the lowest elevation in the first sentence of the discussion section. This is only partly true for population change, while not true for survival and recruitment (Fig. 2). Although functional types are mentioned, the authors only have 4 species belonging to 3 functional types. Paragraph 1: In general, it appears that epiphytes responded to water stress but we also found evidence for local adaptation. Both temperature and water availability changes along the elevations. Why are you sure that epiphytes responded to water stress not temperature? Paragraph 2 and 3: Rainfall compensation and drought tolerance seems self-contradictory. PET: You should provide the full name when it appeared for the first time. 