In this review article the authors describe the role of the chemokine CXCL13 in the formation of meningeal TLOs in MS and suggest it as a therapeutic target. The article is well written and the first half of the article provides a very detailed overview of the components and requirements for formation of secondary lymphoid organs. The authors then switch to tertiary lymphoid organs in the CNS assuming that all components and mechanisms of formation are identical to SLOs. While this may be the case for some of the most developed TLOs in some autoimmune diseases like Myasthenia gravis, it is not so clear which cell types and molecular players are required for formation of meningeal TLOs. In fact, to my knowledge it has not even been formerly proven that CXCL13 is required for formation of meningeal TLOs. Even though it is quite likely considering detection of CXCL13 in mTLOs and elevated CXCL13 levels in the CSF of MS patients, definitive proof even in the animal model is missing as also pointed out by reviewer 1, because a) CXCL13-deficient mice already have a defect in mounting proper immune responses in SLOs and b) active EAE induced by MOG-peptide/CFA immunization does not prominently feature mTLOs. The mouse models that do feature mTLOs such as the spontaneous 2D2xTh mouse have not been studied in the context of CXCL13 deficiency. Furthermore, it would be very useful to discuss in this review cellular sources of CXCL13 in the CNS, as they may not be identical to SLOs. Thus, microglia (Ref 37) and meningeal stromal cells (Pikor et al., Immunity, 2015 1 ) have been suggested as sources for CXCL13 and should be discussed. Another important point is that the authors state that the "mTLO maintain differentiation and maturation of antigen-specific lymphocytes which perpetuate inflammation and disease progression". This is not a fact but a hypothesis and should be stated as such. While it is clearly an attractive hypothesis there is no proof neither in mouse models, nor in MS. We agree with the authors that in MS occurence of TLOs has been associated with more severe disease course and cortical lesions, however, causality has not been demonstrated and even evidence for maturation of antigen-specific lymphocytes in mTLOs is very limited so far. Therefore, we believe that it is not justifiable to interfere with mTLO formation in MS patients, as long as their biological function and consequences are not much better understood. As a side note, some sentences are a bit unclear, for example in the introduction "Inflammation is the appropriate immune response to...autoimmunity..." (pg 2) and "Tfh cells are characterized by expression of CXCR5 and ICOS, which is a subtype of Tfh cells" (pg 3). Overall, the review has a very interesting and important topic, however, in my opinion as detailed above in several paragraphs the wording should be a bit more careful and precise in order not to be misleading. 