Thanks authors, for an interesting submission article entitled “Determinants of road traffic injury at Khulna division in Bangladesh: a cross sectional study of road traffic incidents”. The manuscript addresses the issue of Road Traffic Injuries (RTIs) in Bangladesh. Therefore, identifying the role of various socio-demographic and economic factors regarding the knowledge and consciousness about RTIs is effective in reducing this hazard type. There are a few points that seem to be of interest to the authors of this manuscript. Overall, this submission can be approved with reservations. Please see the following comments: The title of the article needs to be modified to: "Determinants of road traffic injures at Khulna division in Bangladesh: a cross sectional study". In terms of writing, it requires some editing. For example, please be correct RTI’s, and NGO’s. Capitalize each word in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the Cross Validity Prediction Power (CVPP). In the abstract, please rewrite the conclusion. In table 2, please correct d.f., rti. In the discussion, "A study in India showed similar findings …", the sentence refers to three references that needs to be edited in here. It is recommended that the authors use the 2018 report of WHO: Global status report on road safety . Please revise this sentence: "According to the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority, the number of death stood at 2376 and injuries at 1958 as of 2015 in Bangladesh." Please review this sentence: "According to Nantulya et al. buses, trucks, pedestrians and passengers have the highest burden of morbidity and mortality in RTIs". Usually, in the introduction of the article, this kind of writing is not customary. There is no need to rely on the author name. What exactly was the reason for doing a study in Khulna city? Provide statistics regarding RTIs, from this city, if available. If possible, describe, in the study method, what is the reason for choosing these variables? Why haven’t face to face interviews with other stakeholders, such as the medical staff, been conducted to get their experiences about the determinants of traffic injuries? How is the sampling size selected? How did you find this number (n=200) in this study? This study did not mention potential confounders. Potential bias sources in the study, are not included. Please explain how missing data was addressed. Please indicate the number of participants with missing data for each variable of interest. In the results, please report other analyses that were done, if applicable. For example, note analyses of subgroups and interactions, as well as sensitivity analyses. In Table 1, why is a colon (":") used after gender, age, etc.? In the discussion, please summarize the main results regarding the reference to study objectives. In the discussion, please discuss the generalizability (external validity) of the study results. In the discussion section, please summarize the main findings, with a focus on the study objectives. Please give a cautious overall interpretation of results considering objectives, limitations, multiplicity of analyses, results from similar studies, and other relevant evidence. 