Thanks for submitting this paper which attempts to assess the current state of knowledge and interest in disaster preparedness among different tiers of hospital staff and training levels in order to identify potential barriers and areas for further training. Hospital disaster preparedness is one of the pillars of a good health system. The topic is therefore of relevant interest. Nevertheless, the level of novelty is quite questionable since literature offers a variety of other published researches with similar results. The manuscript is easy to read, comprehensive and well managed. Clearly, lots of work has been done by all the authors. Nevertheless, many improvements are warranted. Abstract The abstract provides a concise summary of the content of the article. It describes adequately the objective, design, results and conclusions of the study. In the objective a more concise statement about the aim of the work would be more appropriate for the scope of the paragraph. Introduction Although the rationale of the study and the significance of the problem are well explained, more emphasis about disaster preparedness at hospital level and the lack of personnel training would be very appreciated for the benefit of such study. In the statement “… they must ensure the necessary training to lead disaster preparedness initiatives in the scenario that one does occur” it is not clear who might ensure the necessary training. A deeper description and a citation would strengthen the concept. Materials and Methods The method are well described but it is unclear how the survey instrument was designed and whether it was validated. In addition, a description of the questionnaire should be added to the manuscript. Being the study grounded on survey tool the authors would pay more attention to these aspects. A major intervention is therefore strongly required. The authors invited participants throughout the Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM) Member list and the North Shore Long Island Jewish (NSLIJ) hospital system e-mail newsletters in October 2013. It would be helpful to quantify the entire population, whether possible, in order to figure out the response rate. Authors collected the level of trainers of respondents but results are not reported and not used for deeper analysis (i.e. differences in perception amongst different levels of training). Authors should also justify why respondents were asked about which disaster they thought would be likely to occur. It seems not in line with the study objective. Results The results are consistent but sometime redundant with the figures. Figure 2, for example, reports all the figures described in subparagraph Experience and perception making the reading not fluent and more difficult. Authors are also invited to include in this section precise data not approximations. Figure 1 reports demographic data that can be included in the table 1. Discussion This sections results quite weak. The authors report a list of training initiatives delivered by well known Institutions and Agencies. The authors are invited to better explain the meaning of the findings and why they are important, considering all possible explanations for the study results. Authors should also relate study findings to those of other studies. Literature offers a variety of other published researches with similar results. Please consider the Mortelmans LJ et al. 2016 1 and Lim GH et al. 2013 2 as examples. In addition, the authors mention the “ambulance to nowhere” case. Questions raised by this case may have served as the motivation for authors’ study and deeper considerations could be presented. Study limitations were not addressed by the authors. Authors are asked to elicited them. Conclusion The Conclusions is a bit blurry. In our opinion authors have demonstrated that many of the respondents had low level of disaster management training and feel underprepared for disaster management. The lack of availability of training is reports to be the main deterrent. The Ebola case should be removed from this sections since it is not a conclusion derived from the study findings. 