This article summarises the main regulatory requirements for the successful involvement of pathologists in research. It will be particularly valuable for diagnostic cellular pathologists who are asked to support clinical trials on an occasional basis, as well as for career researchers with a background in pathology. Pathologists should be aware that the success or failure of a research project may depend on the quality of material that is analysed; as experts in the handling of tissues and fluids, pathologists are key members of the research team. For human tissues, the conditions of transport and storage (frozen, paraffin wax blocks) may influence the results of research investigations just as much as investigations for clinical practice. Specific comments: Figure 1 clearly indicates the potential extent of involvement by pathologists. The accompanying text does not pick up on the 'right hand' green box in the figure which emphasises the opportunity for intellectual input into discussing the results. The scientific understanding provided by pathologists can offer caution in interpreting results, if appropriate, where biological factors e.g. tumour sampling variability, may influence conclusions. A clinician scientists, pathologists are also in a position to discuss the possible clinical impact of the results. It might be useful if the authors could state how much of the article is aimed at cellular pathologists and which areas might also be relevant to the other pathology specialities. In the section on accreditation, ISO 15189 is more correctly cited as ISO 15189:2012. Accreditation to the ISO standard implies, as stated in the article, the implementation of an appropriate quality management system. This will include (in the appropriate context) seeking evidence on how a laboratory ensures that research samples are appropriately handled and stored. Factors influencing the uncertainty of measurement are familiar to laboratories, and might impact on the assurance that research sponsors require that samples are of optimal quality for research as well as diagnosis. 