This paper describes the cy3sabiork Cytoscape app, which enables users to query the SABIO-RK kinetics database from within Cytoscape and then formats the results as a Cytoscape network. It also allows a Cytoscape user to import an SBML file generated by the SABIO-RK web site via browser-based interactive use. The paper is generally well structured and worded. My comments mainly address affordances that allow the paper to deliver more value via wording changes, formatting improvements, and the addition of critical additional information. These comments address small points that add up to real value to new readers and readers only semi-fluent with SABIO-RK. The abstract is difficult to read because it lacks white space between paragraphs. Additionally, adding back in some missing articles (e.g., "the" and "and") would improve flow. "cy3sabiork" is a hard name to read ... readability can be improved with a phonetic pronunciation (... would this be si-three-sab-york ??) The operation of cy3sabiork isn't clear from the paper. The web interface is described, but it would be helpful to have a tutorial describing step-by-step operation and giving a tour of the result of each step. This would be helpful both in this paper and on the App Store web site. The Introduction proposes a visualization, but it's unclear what the visualization shows or why it was chosen. For someone trying to understand more about the value of this app, a short explanation would be valuable. The Implementation section is detailed and sufficient. It would be very worthwhile adding text that claims this app as the first to render its UI using JavaFX, and discussing the pros and cons of this approach from both the developer and user perspective. In the Operation section, it should be made clear that when the web interface generates SBML, it is written to a file that the user must then manually import into Cytoscape. Making this more apparent in the "After finalizing the search ..." sentence would be helpful, and avoiding the nominative case in the "Loading kinetic entries" section would make clear that the user is doing the work. Similar clarification in Figure 1 would be helpful, too. In all figures, the captions are very useful but very long. According to F1000 style guide, these captions should be short. If the style is applied, the captions should be moved into inline text (with more discussion). In figure 3, the separation between the form (on the right) and the screen shot (on the left) is unclear. It's hard to read this figure and understand it quickly. The graph in figure 4 is too detailed for reproduction in a PDF. For users that want to study it more, it would be helpful if the supplementary material would contain the .cys file from which it was generated. 