 This item of correspondence is in reference to Wang et al. (2014) , concerning possible cytosolic protein-binding function in conventional dendritic cells by a human noncoding RNA and its mouse ortholog. The correspondents note that the lncRNA designated by Wang et al. is a protein-coding transcript, Wfdc21 or Wdnm1-like, in all mammals with available sequence other than hominids ( Homo sapiens sapiens , Neanderthal and Denisova ), and suggest that Wang et al. would have been well advised to discuss this information, as they propose functions for the transcript in human and mouse cells. The correspondent authors provide an abbreviated summary of the original article in the abstract with suitable detail in the body of the letter. The letter brings up an intriguing point worthy of discussion. Drs. Dijkstra and Ballingall frame and present their observations well and do a thorough job assembling and aligning sequences in support. To their point, recent work finds that only 0.3% of anthropoid-specific constrained sequences functional primate innovations are coding ( del Rosario et al ., 2014 ). If a similar proportion holds for significant functions hominids have ceased to perform, Wang et al. have identified an unusual case and have not highlighted it as such. A few items of follow-up may be of interest to clarify and extend the evolutionary observations in this correspondence. Is the frameshift in the erstwhile signal peptide coding sequence in the human reference genome reproduced in all 1000-genomes data, or is WFDC21P a polymorphic human pseudogene? Is guidance by the human reference sequence in assembly of Neanderthal and Denisova genomes a potential factor in their reproduction of the reported human frameshift? Is there human genetic variation at this locus tied to variation in trait expression, or alternatively is there evidence that variation in this small gene is sufficiently suppressed to leave no functional variation for genetic association studies to mine? Either could be consistent with a significant role in immune function as proposed by Wang et al. What is found at the position syntenic to Wfdc21 in marsupials other than the one noted as sharing this gene, and in lower model organisms? This may help clarify the nature of the apparent mammalian innovation at this locus. Do regulatory elements for WFDC21P differ between hominids and other species? If Wfdc21 is a gene with active RNA and protein products, their function will have evolved in the context of cell-type specific expression. Fantom5 CAGE tag data suggests a difference in regulation of human WFDC21P vs. mouse Wfdc21. Although parallel samples are not available for all tissues and cell types, mouse data show strongest expression in myeloid suppressor cells with significant expression also in liver and skin, while human data show 1000x lower maximum expression with best expression in migratory Langerhans cells. Do the sections of WFDC21P-RNA highlighted as functional by Wang et al. show signs of hominid or mammalian constraint? It is intriguing that Wang et al. show data suggesting STAT3 binding by the 3-end of WFC21P-RNA in a section downstream of the ORF and thus potentially available for secondary function. The correspondent authors also discuss the technical merits of the work presented in Wang et al., as indicated by the potential novelty of the findings. Four additional points may be made here. It is important to establish the RNA-dependence of activities discussed by Wang et al . While the correspondents are satisfied that lack of human protein coding has been demonstrated, some experiments could be clearer. Wfdc21 is a secreted protein. Did Wang et al. examine the supernatant as well as the cells in which Flag-tagged fusions were expressed? The correspondents comment on the inconsistent use of controls. Indeed, the sole controlled experiment suggesting RNA-protein association appears to be the pulldown of STAT3 with biotinylated WFDC21P RNA, with specific absence of the STAT3 band in the antisense control. While RIP with STAT3 experimental and STAT1 control antibodies was conducted, no sequencing is reported so the specificity of interaction with STAT3 is not known. Further, figures on RNA-FISH visualization of association of STAT3p with WFDC21P-RNA do not show controls. Wang et al. rely on inhibitors to demonstrate WFDC21P-RNA function. As the correspondents note, one shRNA sequence is primarily employed and it is not consistently paired with varied on- or off-target controls. Literature on functional siRNA screens suggests that a half dozen RNAi sequences with independent seeds are required for dissociation of off- and on-target activities. Further, Wang et al. have performed expression profiling on shRNA-treated cells. The profiles can be examined for seed-based off-target activity and for inflammatory response to the lentiviral vector according to published methods. It will be important to establish whether the dendritic cell proteins whose differential expression is highlighted by Wang et al. show shRNA-matching seed sequences in their 3UTRs or respond to lentiviral infection. Wang et al. also use published STAT3 inhibitors to elucidate the role of WFDC21P-RNA. It would be intriguing to speculate that an RNA-protein interaction site helps to define the STAT3 binding site of published inhibitor S3I-201 and its effects on STAT3 activity. However, the supplementary material provided by Wang et al. show much more profound effects on cytokine production by small molecules than shown for WFDC21P shRNA in the main paper, although effects on T-cell activation remain similar. 