In this timely and clearly written article, the authors describe the relation between physical activity promotion and climate change, and do so through the World Health Organization’s Global Action Plan on Physical Activity 2018-2030 (GAPPA). From the four strategic objectives (i.e., create active societies, environments, people, and systems) of GAPPA and each objective’s proposed policy actions, the authors offer five perspectives that connect physical activity to climate change: 1) development of infrastructures to enable active transport, 2) green spaces and recreational/exercise facilities to promote PA, 3) physical activity and exercise programs, 4) mass communication campaigns and mass participation events, and 5) training of professionals. The authors conclude with the implications of their overview for future PA promotion, in particular on climate-conscious 1) policy development for PA promotion and 2) PA research and surveillance. I commend the authors for this article because the link between physical activity and climate change has not been adequately addressed in the literature, and there is potential for public health and environmental sectors in local government to partner on the topic. Before sharing my thoughts on specific sections of the article, I have a few overall comments. The article would benefit from a table that includes each of the GAPPA objectives and a summary of each of the policy actions. This way, readers can refer to GAPPA while the authors share their five perspectives. Second, there are several impacts of greenhouse gas emissions on our climate (e.g., rising temperatures, increase in extreme weather events, change in precipitation patterns, and sea-level rise), but the authors seem to address only rising temperatures and its relation to physical activity promotion. Similarly, the authors focus their perspectives on physical activity and climate change mitigation (i.e., opportunities for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions), yet less attention is given to climate change adaptation and resilience. Lastly, the authors should review their article for minor issues with grammar (e.g., inconsistent use of the Oxford comma, “the GAPPA” versus “GAPPA,” and “build” versus “built”) and language choice (e.g., “extremely well” and “less climate-friendly”). Please see below for my comments specific to select sections. Introduction The authors state that there are “… stubbornly high rates of physical inactivity in adolescents and adults…” and “PA rates in children are higher but still leave room for improvement.” Both of these statements can be refined. There is a difference between physical inactivity (i.e., sedentary behavior) and not being sufficiently active (i.e., failing to reach recommended levels of physical activity for health benefits). This distinction is important, because although children may have higher PA rates than adults (which depends on method of surveillance and individual-level factors), children in the US are recommended to engage in more PA each week than adults. The authors can be more precise here, and include values. Development of infrastructures to enable active transport The authors focus their overview of active transport on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the benefits to human health. The authors conclude this section with a statement on the health burden of motorized transport—I am wondering if the authors can dig deeper into the literature here. Can the authors tease out how many road fatalities involve a non-motor vehicle (e.g., pedestrian and bicycle)? Similarly, can the authors cite research that has modeled the amount of lives saved, injuries prevented, and pollution reduced from switching from vehicular transport to alternative modes? Green spaces and recreational/exercise facilities to promote PA The authors focus their overview of green spaces on carbon sequestration, urban heat island mitigation, and climate adaptation; and their overview of recreational/exercise facilities on energy and land consumption. I think this section can be improved by providing further detail on each of the above points. Regarding green spaces, I would mention the amount of cooling offered by parks, which has been found to be 0.94C, on average: Bowler, D. E., Buyung-Ali, L., Knight, T. M., Pullin, A. S. (2010). Urban greening to cool towns and cities: A systematic review of the empirical evidence. Landscape and urban planning , 97 (3), 147-155 1 . The specific vegetation is also worth mentioning, in relation to how trees and non-tree vegetation have different effects on physical activity levels of different populations; and how climate change is impacting what trees are able to be planted in an area with continued global warming: Lanza, K., Stone Jr, B., Haardrfer, R. (2019). How race, ethnicity, and income moderate the relationship between urban vegetation and physical activity in the United States. Preventive medicine , 121 , 55-61 2 . Lanza, K., Stone Jr, B. (2016). Climate adaptation in cities: What trees are suitable for urban heat management?. Landscape and Urban Planning , 153 , 74-82 3 . For recreational/exercise facilities, the authors can mention outdoor fitness classes/groups/meet-ups, which do not have the energy use requirements (e.g., air conditioning and lighting) of indoor facilities. Physical activity and exercise programs The authors focus their overview of exercise programs on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the benefits to human health. The authors state “…outdoor facilities with comparably low carbon emissions should be promoted with priority (e.g. outdoor Zumba rather than water aerobics in a heated indoor pool).” This recommendation also relates to the authors’ previous perspective on recreational/exercise facilities. In organizing the article’s content, the authors may want to consider green spaces as a separate perspective, and recreational/exercise facilities and exercise programs as another perspective. Mass communication campaigns and mass participation events The authors focus their overview of mass communication and participation on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the benefits to human health. The authors raise the pertinent point that weather conditions may influence physical activity patterns. However, most studies show temperature to have a positive correlation with physical activity, with individuals being more active during summer over other seasons: Chan, C. B., Ryan, D. A. (2009). Assessing the effects of weather conditions on physical activity participation using objective measures. International journal of environmental research and public health , 6 (10), 2639-2654 4 . In recent work, US adults have been found to not modify their physical activity behavior on days with high temperatures, which suggests cities in hot climates may be placing adults at increased risk of exertional heat illness. The authors recommend incorporating the risk of exertional heat illness in health impact assessments and deploying heat management strategies (i.e., tree planting and installation of reflective building materials): Lanza, K., Stone, B., Chakalian, P. M., Gronlund, C. J., Hondula, D. M., Larsen, L., ... Haardrfer, R. (2020). Physical Activity in the Summer Heat: How Hot Weather Moderates the Relationship Between Built Environment Features and Outdoor Physical Activity of Adults. Journal of Physical Activity and Health , 1 (aop), 1-9 5 . The authors point about the environmental impact of sports apparel production seems tangential to physical activity promotion and climate change, and therefore may be removed. Instead, I believe this article section would benefit from including content on the increased risk of exertional heat illness from projected temperature increases. The authors could also include content on how weather service providers, such as the National Weather Service in the United States, can incorporate alerts about unsafe physical activity conditions within its heat products (e.g., heat advisory and excessive heat warning). 