This article compares a number of tools released to characterize the presence and nature of repetitive elements from genomic data. The stated goal of the analysis is to generate findings that would help other researchers choose suitable tools and parameters when performing this type of analysis in their own lab. Aspects considered included the ability to call as well as accurately genotype repetitive elements. The analysis is not limited to long disease associated repeats, which has often been the case for obvious reasons. The authors compared four different short tandem repeats genotyping tools making use of whole exome sequencing data. They sought to determine genotyping performance and limits. They also examined parameters settings to determine if and how to refine the analysis to increase accuracy. The authors made use of a readily accessible dataset for these analyses. As would be expected, they found that all tools showed reasonable performance when genotyping repeats of 3-6 bp in length. As would be expected, they found that accurate homopolymer genotyping was challenging for all tools, with a high error rate being seen cross the board. They found issues nin mono and dinucleotide repeats as would also be expected/has been shown previously. The authors categorized tools based on a number of factors. For example they found that LobSTR made the most calls (which may or may not be a good thing) and was the fastest tool, while RepeatSeq and HipSTR exhibited the lowest heterozygous error rate at low coverage. The methods, tools reviewed, and dataset used for testing were clearly presented. The reasoning for selecting those tools was also well laid out. The article cited the current literature in the field. The study design was appropriate for the purpose of comparing tools to define specific strengths and weaknesses. It might have been nice to have more of an in depth discussion as to how the various tools differed in terms of their algorithm and how this related to the results and conclusions made. The authors stated that a goal of the analysis would be to generate a framework useful for others looking to compare and contrast tools to support selection for research. As such it might have been nice to include some specifics on ease of installation, levels of support etc. for the various tools etc. Maybe they were all very easy and well supported in that regard. The authors provide specific details of the parameters used to run each tool. The majority appear to be run using defaults; there does not seem to have been a huge amount of parameter refinement . This may be due to limitations in what is possible with these tools. The authors provided links to the datasets used for the comparison. The source data used is not provided per se because it is access controlled. The data is, however, a well known publicly available dataset and it should not be very difficult for others to obtain access. People wishing to recapitulate the study would simple have to apply. The authors provided links to the code they used. All combined; these aspects should make for ease of replication by those interested. Very minimal statistical analysis and its interpretation was required because of the nature of the analysis presented, but zenodo links to scripts were provided. The conclusions drawn were adequately supported by the findings that they presented. Testing of the X chromosome for accuracy in variant calling is not a novel approach. Study of the X to explore the genotype and location of repetitive sequences is also not a novel approach. Combining the two approaches to use the X chromosome to specifically examine repetitive sequences has not been published. The study is essentially a comparison of tools. As such, it is well organized and executed and would be of interest for people looking to set up pipelines in their lab. As the authors acknowledge most findings gleaned from their analysis were not surprising; they primarily confirmed known constraints or issues with the tools and their analysis confirmed existing knowledge regarding the nature of the repetitive sequences studied. Selection of the X chromosome was a nice way to undertake analysis that would be likely to be adopted by others. Given this background, this work would seem to have value primarily for education purposes to help researchers select and set up tools. It would be useful for that purpose. It does not present much, if anything, in the way of novel generalizable research knowledge on the repetitive nature of the human genome. 