The article describes a Cytoscape plugin “CoNet app” designed for the inference of networks from microbial abundance or incidence matrices. The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community. I would suggest certain improvements to the article to make it in itself more valuable for potential users to judge the applicability of the plugin to their datasets. Introduction: As the authors of the plugin are well aware (being co-authors of “Correlation detection strategies in microbial data sets vary widely in sensitivity and precision” 1 ), co-abundance or co-occurrence analysis is an approach to ecological data interpretation that is not without caveats and as such, the article is lacking both mention of limitations of the approach and references to the successful use cases of earlier versions of CoNet. I suggest including both in the introduction. The introduction also does little to explain the approach to potential users who are not familiar with the concept. E.g. the sentence “More specifically, co-occurrence analysis detects significant co-occurrences or mutual exclusions across samples, which are interpreted as representing ecological relationships such as mutualism or competition or being due to similar responses to environmental factors.” mixes up observations and analyses with interpretation. Similarly, relating to the first sentence of the introduction, microbial count data are not obtained from relative abundances, but microbial counts taken to infer relative abundances (the sentence is also ambiguous as to what these abundances are relative to). Furthermore, the second but last sentence of the introduction “The large number of microbial count tables resulting from the multitude of recent sequencing projects…” can be interpreted to advise for the co-analysis of results from different studies, which is most often not possible. These parts should be revised for clarity. Methods/Implementation: More details on the algorithms would be useful, or alternatively references to other publications which describe CoNet, as relates to the following points: “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” and “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? Use case : It would be helpful to shortly describe the size of the dataset (number of OTUs and number of samples) as part of the sentence “This data set was chosen for its sample number (sufficient to compute associations but short run times) as well as for the biological insights that are gained from the network analysis.” A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful. In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis? The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative. Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed. Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible. It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data? The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained. In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out. Small comments: The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references. The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent. As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. References 1. Weiss S, Van Treuren W, Lozupone C, Faust K, et al.: Correlation detection strategies in microbial data sets vary widely in sensitivity and precision. ISME J . 2016; 10 (7): 1669-81 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Wilmes P and Heintz-Buschart A. Reviewer Report For: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1519 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9740.r14620 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v1#referee-response-14620 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 14 Oct 2016 Karoline Faust , VUB, Belgium 14 Oct 2016 Author Response "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We ... Continue reading "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We would like to thank the reviewer for this appreciation of our work. Introduction In response to the reviewers' comments, we have rewritten the introduction, thereby rephrasing problematic sentences, pointing out limitations of microbial network inference and citing the evaluation. We also added a paragraph in the discussion to mention applications of CoNet. Methods/Implementation “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, We included an overview table comparing selected measures of association. We also added a paragraph on how measures can be combined in CoNet. “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” We improved this explanation of CoNet's treatment of sample metadata. “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. We provided an example to better explain what we mean. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? We added an explanation. Use case The OTU number was added to the following sentence (which already listed the sample number): This data set consists of 4,022 operating taxonomic units and 52 soil samples from the arctic tundra, which were sequenced with Roche FLX using primers targeting the V1V2 region of the 16S rDNA. "A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful." In general, the number of false positives increases with decreasing sample number. While assessment of significance counter-balances this effect, it is unreasonable to compute a correlation from a few observations only, even if it is strongly significant. However, we cannot provide a formula to compute where exactly to put the cut-off. "In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis?" We saw previously that there is no big difference between networks computed with 100 or 1000 iterations. The reason is that we are not computing p-values from a pure permutation test, where small p-values can only be reached by performing a sufficient number of iterations. Instead, we compute the p-value parametrically as the mean of the permutation distribution under the bootstrap distribution. Estimating the mean and standard deviation of normal distributions is less sensitive to iteration number than computing parameter-free p-values. We added this explanation to the text. "The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative." The p-value is an assessment of association strength. So are the scores of the measures themselves, e.g. Pearson's r and Spearman's rho, which are correlated with the p-value. We have added a remark explaining this to the text. Assessing the significance usually discards edges from the initial network, in some cases even removing all initial edges. The number of edges removed depends on the initially selected thresholds. In the use case, the initial network consists of 10000 edges, 1546 of which remain after assessment of significance and merging of measure-specific p-values into a single p-value. The exact edge number in the final network may vary slightly from run to run, due to variations in the permutation and bootstrap distributions. "Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed." This heading was not intended as a Figure heading but as a heading to divide the text. We improved the layout and added headers to Figure 1 and 2. "Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible." Our aim here was to show the networks as obtained with the CoNet app when executing the use case, but we understand the point of the reviewer. As a compromise, we have now removed the labels and added a class-level color code. "It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data?" These are taxonomic classes. We clarified this in the caption of Figure 2. "The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained." We added an explanation of the color scheme in the main text and to the caption of Figure 2. "In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out." The pH node stands out by differing in shape from the taxon nodes. We have clarified this by adding a legend to Figure 2. Small comments: "The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references." We excuse for this oversight. We have added the reference. "The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent." We now use p-value with a lower case p, unless it is the first word of a new sentence, where we use the upper case P. "As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. " Done "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We would like to thank the reviewer for this appreciation of our work. Introduction In response to the reviewers' comments, we have rewritten the introduction, thereby rephrasing problematic sentences, pointing out limitations of microbial network inference and citing the evaluation. We also added a paragraph in the discussion to mention applications of CoNet. Methods/Implementation “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, We included an overview table comparing selected measures of association. We also added a paragraph on how measures can be combined in CoNet. “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” We improved this explanation of CoNet's treatment of sample metadata. “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. We provided an example to better explain what we mean. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? We added an explanation. Use case The OTU number was added to the following sentence (which already listed the sample number): This data set consists of 4,022 operating taxonomic units and 52 soil samples from the arctic tundra, which were sequenced with Roche FLX using primers targeting the V1V2 region of the 16S rDNA. "A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful." In general, the number of false positives increases with decreasing sample number. While assessment of significance counter-balances this effect, it is unreasonable to compute a correlation from a few observations only, even if it is strongly significant. However, we cannot provide a formula to compute where exactly to put the cut-off. "In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis?" We saw previously that there is no big difference between networks computed with 100 or 1000 iterations. The reason is that we are not computing p-values from a pure permutation test, where small p-values can only be reached by performing a sufficient number of iterations. Instead, we compute the p-value parametrically as the mean of the permutation distribution under the bootstrap distribution. Estimating the mean and standard deviation of normal distributions is less sensitive to iteration number than computing parameter-free p-values. We added this explanation to the text. "The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative." The p-value is an assessment of association strength. So are the scores of the measures themselves, e.g. Pearson's r and Spearman's rho, which are correlated with the p-value. We have added a remark explaining this to the text. Assessing the significance usually discards edges from the initial network, in some cases even removing all initial edges. The number of edges removed depends on the initially selected thresholds. In the use case, the initial network consists of 10000 edges, 1546 of which remain after assessment of significance and merging of measure-specific p-values into a single p-value. The exact edge number in the final network may vary slightly from run to run, due to variations in the permutation and bootstrap distributions. "Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed." This heading was not intended as a Figure heading but as a heading to divide the text. We improved the layout and added headers to Figure 1 and 2. "Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible." Our aim here was to show the networks as obtained with the CoNet app when executing the use case, but we understand the point of the reviewer. As a compromise, we have now removed the labels and added a class-level color code. "It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data?" These are taxonomic classes. We clarified this in the caption of Figure 2. "The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained." We added an explanation of the color scheme in the main text and to the caption of Figure 2. "In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out." The pH node stands out by differing in shape from the taxon nodes. We have clarified this by adding a legend to Figure 2. Small comments: "The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references." We excuse for this oversight. We have added the reference. "The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent." We now use p-value with a lower case p, unless it is the first word of a new sentence, where we use the upper case P. "As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. " Done Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 14 Oct 2016 Karoline Faust , VUB, Belgium 14 Oct 2016 Author Response "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We ... Continue reading "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We would like to thank the reviewer for this appreciation of our work. Introduction In response to the reviewers' comments, we have rewritten the introduction, thereby rephrasing problematic sentences, pointing out limitations of microbial network inference and citing the evaluation. We also added a paragraph in the discussion to mention applications of CoNet. Methods/Implementation “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, We included an overview table comparing selected measures of association. We also added a paragraph on how measures can be combined in CoNet. “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” We improved this explanation of CoNet's treatment of sample metadata. “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. We provided an example to better explain what we mean. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? We added an explanation. Use case The OTU number was added to the following sentence (which already listed the sample number): This data set consists of 4,022 operating taxonomic units and 52 soil samples from the arctic tundra, which were sequenced with Roche FLX using primers targeting the V1V2 region of the 16S rDNA. "A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful." In general, the number of false positives increases with decreasing sample number. While assessment of significance counter-balances this effect, it is unreasonable to compute a correlation from a few observations only, even if it is strongly significant. However, we cannot provide a formula to compute where exactly to put the cut-off. "In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis?" We saw previously that there is no big difference between networks computed with 100 or 1000 iterations. The reason is that we are not computing p-values from a pure permutation test, where small p-values can only be reached by performing a sufficient number of iterations. Instead, we compute the p-value parametrically as the mean of the permutation distribution under the bootstrap distribution. Estimating the mean and standard deviation of normal distributions is less sensitive to iteration number than computing parameter-free p-values. We added this explanation to the text. "The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative." The p-value is an assessment of association strength. So are the scores of the measures themselves, e.g. Pearson's r and Spearman's rho, which are correlated with the p-value. We have added a remark explaining this to the text. Assessing the significance usually discards edges from the initial network, in some cases even removing all initial edges. The number of edges removed depends on the initially selected thresholds. In the use case, the initial network consists of 10000 edges, 1546 of which remain after assessment of significance and merging of measure-specific p-values into a single p-value. The exact edge number in the final network may vary slightly from run to run, due to variations in the permutation and bootstrap distributions. "Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed." This heading was not intended as a Figure heading but as a heading to divide the text. We improved the layout and added headers to Figure 1 and 2. "Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible." Our aim here was to show the networks as obtained with the CoNet app when executing the use case, but we understand the point of the reviewer. As a compromise, we have now removed the labels and added a class-level color code. "It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data?" These are taxonomic classes. We clarified this in the caption of Figure 2. "The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained." We added an explanation of the color scheme in the main text and to the caption of Figure 2. "In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out." The pH node stands out by differing in shape from the taxon nodes. We have clarified this by adding a legend to Figure 2. Small comments: "The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references." We excuse for this oversight. We have added the reference. "The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent." We now use p-value with a lower case p, unless it is the first word of a new sentence, where we use the upper case P. "As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. " Done "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We would like to thank the reviewer for this appreciation of our work. Introduction In response to the reviewers' comments, we have rewritten the introduction, thereby rephrasing problematic sentences, pointing out limitations of microbial network inference and citing the evaluation. We also added a paragraph in the discussion to mention applications of CoNet. Methods/Implementation “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, We included an overview table comparing selected measures of association. We also added a paragraph on how measures can be combined in CoNet. “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” We improved this explanation of CoNet's treatment of sample metadata. “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. We provided an example to better explain what we mean. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? We added an explanation. Use case The OTU number was added to the following sentence (which already listed the sample number): This data set consists of 4,022 operating taxonomic units and 52 soil samples from the arctic tundra, which were sequenced with Roche FLX using primers targeting the V1V2 region of the 16S rDNA. "A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful." In general, the number of false positives increases with decreasing sample number. While assessment of significance counter-balances this effect, it is unreasonable to compute a correlation from a few observations only, even if it is strongly significant. However, we cannot provide a formula to compute where exactly to put the cut-off. "In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis?" We saw previously that there is no big difference between networks computed with 100 or 1000 iterations. The reason is that we are not computing p-values from a pure permutation test, where small p-values can only be reached by performing a sufficient number of iterations. Instead, we compute the p-value parametrically as the mean of the permutation distribution under the bootstrap distribution. Estimating the mean and standard deviation of normal distributions is less sensitive to iteration number than computing parameter-free p-values. We added this explanation to the text. "The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative." The p-value is an assessment of association strength. So are the scores of the measures themselves, e.g. Pearson's r and Spearman's rho, which are correlated with the p-value. We have added a remark explaining this to the text. Assessing the significance usually discards edges from the initial network, in some cases even removing all initial edges. The number of edges removed depends on the initially selected thresholds. In the use case, the initial network consists of 10000 edges, 1546 of which remain after assessment of significance and merging of measure-specific p-values into a single p-value. The exact edge number in the final network may vary slightly from run to run, due to variations in the permutation and bootstrap distributions. "Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed." This heading was not intended as a Figure heading but as a heading to divide the text. We improved the layout and added headers to Figure 1 and 2. "Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible." Our aim here was to show the networks as obtained with the CoNet app when executing the use case, but we understand the point of the reviewer. As a compromise, we have now removed the labels and added a class-level color code. "It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data?" These are taxonomic classes. We clarified this in the caption of Figure 2. "The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained." We added an explanation of the color scheme in the main text and to the caption of Figure 2. "In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out." The pH node stands out by differing in shape from the taxon nodes. We have clarified this by adding a legend to Figure 2. Small comments: "The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references." We excuse for this oversight. We have added the reference. "The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent." We now use p-value with a lower case p, unless it is the first word of a new sentence, where we use the upper case P. "As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. " Done Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 27 Jun 2016 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 2 (revision) 14 Oct 16 read read Version 1 27 Jun 16 read read Paul Wilmes , University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg Anna Heintz-Buschart , University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg Alexander Eiler , Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Eiler A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 24 Oct 2016 | for Version 2 Alexander Eiler , Department of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden 0 Views copyright © 2016 Eiler A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I do not have any further comments - the authors made a great effort to detail the different statistical inferences and how they can be combined which was the major criticism on the first version. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Eiler A. Peer Review Report For: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1519 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10536.r17150) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2#referee-response-17150 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Wilmes P et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 17 Oct 2016 | for Version 2 Paul Wilmes , Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine (LCSB), University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg Anna Heintz-Buschart , Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine (LCSB), University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg 0 Views copyright © 2016 Wilmes P et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The authors have addressed all previously raised issues. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Wilmes P and Heintz-Buschart A. Peer Review Report For: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1519 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10536.r16998) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2#referee-response-16998 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Eiler A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 12 Sep 2016 | for Version 1 Alexander Eiler , Department of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden 0 Views copyright © 2016 Eiler A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Be more precious, here. "The idea behind such an ensemble approach to network inference is to exploit the fact that different methods make different mistakes." These are different statistical inferences so based on the underlaying algorithms results will be different. Same may be better suited for parametric or none-parametric data, some perform better with larger or smaller sample numbers. The different methods have also different statistical power do identify significances. Some may produce more false positives or false negatives than others. Some guidance and references to statistical literature could be provided in the article. I really liked to see an implementation that calculates false discovery rate (after Benjamin Hochberg) over all statistical comparisons. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 14 Oct 2016 Karoline Faust, VUB, Belgium "These are different statistical inferences so based on the underlaying algorithms results will be different." Thanks for pointing this out. We have now added an overview table of the strengths and weaknesses of selected measures available in CoNet. We also added a paragraph that discusses the different ways in which these measures can be combined in CoNet. "I really liked to see an implementation that calculates false discovery rate (after Benjamin Hochberg) over all statistical comparisons." CoNet does allow computing false discovery rate over all statistical comparisons either by setting the number of initial edges sufficiently high or by setting the thresholds on the individual measures sufficiently low. We have added this remark to the article. Despite the fact that multiple testing correction is in most cases only applied after edges are discarded through initial filtering, CoNet is among the microbial network inference tools with the lowest false positive rates tested in Weiss et al., The ISME Journal 2016 ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26905627 , supplementary Figure 10) . View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Eiler A. Peer Review Report For: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1519 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9740.r15254) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v1#referee-response-15254 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Wilmes P et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 13 Jul 2016 | for Version 1 Paul Wilmes , Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine (LCSB), University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg Anna Heintz-Buschart , Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine (LCSB), University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg 0 Views copyright © 2016 Wilmes P et al. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The article describes a Cytoscape plugin “CoNet app” designed for the inference of networks from microbial abundance or incidence matrices. The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community. I would suggest certain improvements to the article to make it in itself more valuable for potential users to judge the applicability of the plugin to their datasets. Introduction: As the authors of the plugin are well aware (being co-authors of “Correlation detection strategies in microbial data sets vary widely in sensitivity and precision” 1 ), co-abundance or co-occurrence analysis is an approach to ecological data interpretation that is not without caveats and as such, the article is lacking both mention of limitations of the approach and references to the successful use cases of earlier versions of CoNet. I suggest including both in the introduction. The introduction also does little to explain the approach to potential users who are not familiar with the concept. E.g. the sentence “More specifically, co-occurrence analysis detects significant co-occurrences or mutual exclusions across samples, which are interpreted as representing ecological relationships such as mutualism or competition or being due to similar responses to environmental factors.” mixes up observations and analyses with interpretation. Similarly, relating to the first sentence of the introduction, microbial count data are not obtained from relative abundances, but microbial counts taken to infer relative abundances (the sentence is also ambiguous as to what these abundances are relative to). Furthermore, the second but last sentence of the introduction “The large number of microbial count tables resulting from the multitude of recent sequencing projects…” can be interpreted to advise for the co-analysis of results from different studies, which is most often not possible. These parts should be revised for clarity. Methods/Implementation: More details on the algorithms would be useful, or alternatively references to other publications which describe CoNet, as relates to the following points: “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” and “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? Use case : It would be helpful to shortly describe the size of the dataset (number of OTUs and number of samples) as part of the sentence “This data set was chosen for its sample number (sufficient to compute associations but short run times) as well as for the biological insights that are gained from the network analysis.” A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful. In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis? The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative. Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed. Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible. It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data? The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained. In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out. Small comments: The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references. The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent. As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. References 1. Weiss S, Van Treuren W, Lozupone C, Faust K, et al.: Correlation detection strategies in microbial data sets vary widely in sensitivity and precision. ISME J . 2016; 10 (7): 1669-81 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 14 Oct 2016 Karoline Faust, VUB, Belgium "The effort combining a versatile network inference tool with a user-friendly and widely used network visualization and analysis framework, such as Cytoscape is very valuable to the community." We would like to thank the reviewer for this appreciation of our work. Introduction In response to the reviewers' comments, we have rewritten the introduction, thereby rephrasing problematic sentences, pointing out limitations of microbial network inference and citing the evaluation. We also added a paragraph in the discussion to mention applications of CoNet. Methods/Implementation “its capability to combine multiple such measures and/or to combine these measures with other network inference algorithms”, We included an overview table comparing selected measures of association. We also added a paragraph on how measures can be combined in CoNet. “CoNet can also parse sample metadata such as temperature or oxygen concentration, which are then correlated with the objects in the input matrix while being excluded from normalization.” We improved this explanation of CoNet's treatment of sample metadata. “Phylogenetic lineages in these tables are automatically parsed”. We provided an example to better explain what we mean. Also, what are positive and negative edges? How is mutual information integrated with measures which can be positive or negative? We added an explanation. Use case The OTU number was added to the following sentence (which already listed the sample number): This data set consists of 4,022 operating taxonomic units and 52 soil samples from the arctic tundra, which were sequenced with Roche FLX using primers targeting the V1V2 region of the 16S rDNA. "A general advice on the required sample number and or relationship between numbers of analyzed features and sample numbers would also be helpful." In general, the number of false positives increases with decreasing sample number. While assessment of significance counter-balances this effect, it is unreasonable to compute a correlation from a few observations only, even if it is strongly significant. However, we cannot provide a formula to compute where exactly to put the cut-off. "In addition, are the 100 iterations performed in this example a realistic number of iterations to be used in such an analysis?" We saw previously that there is no big difference between networks computed with 100 or 1000 iterations. The reason is that we are not computing p-values from a pure permutation test, where small p-values can only be reached by performing a sufficient number of iterations. Instead, we compute the p-value parametrically as the mean of the permutation distribution under the bootstrap distribution. Estimating the mean and standard deviation of normal distributions is less sensitive to iteration number than computing parameter-free p-values. We added this explanation to the text. "The formulation “The significance of edges, that is their p-values” is a bit unfortunate. On a similar note, next to the permutations, is there a way in CoNet or the CoNet app to assess association strengths? An example of how the assessment of edge significance affects network size and structure would be informative." The p-value is an assessment of association strength. So are the scores of the measures themselves, e.g. Pearson's r and Spearman's rho, which are correlated with the p-value. We have added a remark explaining this to the text. Assessing the significance usually discards edges from the initial network, in some cases even removing all initial edges. The number of edges removed depends on the initially selected thresholds. In the use case, the initial network consists of 10000 edges, 1546 of which remain after assessment of significance and merging of measure-specific p-values into a single p-value. The exact edge number in the final network may vary slightly from run to run, due to variations in the permutation and bootstrap distributions. "Figures: The large heading in Figure 1 should be removed." This heading was not intended as a Figure heading but as a heading to divide the text. We improved the layout and added headers to Figure 1 and 2. "Figure 2 would benefit from a heading. The labels of figure 2 are not legible." Our aim here was to show the networks as obtained with the CoNet app when executing the use case, but we understand the point of the reviewer. As a compromise, we have now removed the labels and added a class-level color code. "It is unclear from the text and not mentioned in the legend, how the “classes” used for coloring nodes are defined. Are these classes in the taxonomic sense or different kinds of data?" These are taxonomic classes. We clarified this in the caption of Figure 2. "The color scheme for positive and negative edges should be explained." We added an explanation of the color scheme in the main text and to the caption of Figure 2. "In panel C, the pH node should be more clearly pointed out." The pH node stands out by differing in shape from the taxon nodes. We have clarified this by adding a legend to Figure 2. Small comments: "The referenced “Brown 1975” does not appear in the references." We excuse for this oversight. We have added the reference. "The capitalization of “P-value” is inconsistent." We now use p-value with a lower case p, unless it is the first word of a new sentence, where we use the upper case P. "As the buttons in the app are actually called that, refer to “Data menu”, “Preprocessing and filter menu” etc. " Done View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Wilmes P and Heintz-Buschart A. Peer Review Report For: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1519 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9740.r14620) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v1#referee-response-14620 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "CoNet app: inference of biological association...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Faust K and Raes J');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519",
 templates : {
 twitter : "CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using.... Faust K and Raes J, published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1519/v2"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Software Tool Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: CoNet app: inference of biological association networks using Cytoscape", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/9050/10536")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "10536");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "14624": 0,
 "15252": 0,
 "15253": 0,
 "15254": 47,
 "16998": 21,
 "16999": 0,
 "14620": 48,
 "14621": 0,
 "14622": 0,
 "17150": 17,
 "14623": 0,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "3a9a58e6-1dc5-4654-999a-80b2cdb3413b";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 