 The table number 1 2 in the results of this research article is incomplete; there is no proper labelling and description for the table. What indicating the – and + sign in the table? The other indication that needs in the second table is what representing A, B, C, D, E, F? The table number 3rd shows the MIC assay, in this assay test extracts and positive control is there but what about the negative control that is only Schneider Drosophila Medium? How the concentration where fixed for extract and positive control because the deviation of concentration is large between positive control and extract (extract 2000 g to 250 g, and for Pento and Ampho B, it is 150 g to 15.625 g). The concentration of extract used here is too high. The table number 3rd shows a significant difference of MIC (mg/ml) for same plant extract of S. Nigrum from the different geographical area that is Kisii and Bungoma if it is so why not for another species of plant that is P. Capensis? It is collected from only one region. The table 4 indicating that the blending ratio of the plant extract inhibit the parasitic survival and there is no clear evidence to support the inhibitory effect of promastigote is really by the synergistic effect of both plant, or the quantity of active compound present in different plant extract is in different ratio? In this article, the results are missing the phytochemical profile (Gas chromatographic profile and MALDI -TOF analysis) for the identification of the active compound involving the inhibitory effect of the parasite. In vitro experiment, there is no clear cut idea about the drug carrier (vehicle of drug) and vehicle control. The table number 6 and 7 shows the NO assay, but it is not a significant increase in between control groups (both positive and negative). The manuscript lacking the immunomodulatory action of plant extract. In there in-vitro assay they should also have measured IFNg and IL 10 cytokines upon extract treatment to see the shift of Th1 and Th2 dichotomy. The manuscript lacks the background knowledge about S. nigrum and P. capensis, about the medicinal property, general uses etc. and specify why they selected these two plants? The result is lacking cytotoxic assay and SI index of plant extracts. 5th December: A sentence has been edited in point 6 to make the sentence clearer and in point 8, a sentence has been added regarding the in vitro assay. Both of which were accidentally omitted from the original report. 