Sarek is a workflow for variant detection and analysis of sequencing data from WGS, WES and targeted panels. The workflow is comprehensive and versatile, allowing for variant detection in both germline and somatic samples, from WGS/WES/panel sequencing. It includes variant calling of SNPs, indels, and structural variants, as well as annotation and extensive quality control. Sarek is open source and part of the nf-core community effort which builds well-curated analysis pipelines in the Nextflow pipeline framework. Sarek is very user friendly, and installation, configuration and execution is easy to perform, while the workflow is also flexible. Implementation manages to be clear, despite also being advanced with parallelization and ample choice of installation/execution. Many researchers would likely struggle to implement pipelines at this advanced level. The documentation is excellent, and despite the comprehensive functionality, most users should find it easy to set up Sarek and get started. I have no doubt that Sarek will be a very valuable addition to the research community. The paper is well written and fulfils all the reviewer criteria. As reviewer, I have only a few minor comments: Sarek can use different Nextflow configuration profiles. In the Sarek documentation, it says that the test profile is a profile with a complete configuration for automated testing and that it includes links to test data so needs no other parameters. It should be obvious to most users, but I would suggest that the authors make it clear that when using the test profile, a user must also supply conda, docker or singularity profile if not all the tools are installed in the PATH. This is clear from the general nf-core documentation (https://nf-co.re/usage/introduction) but less so from the Sarek documentation. Whereas the choice of Nextflow is justified, there is little argumentation for why the different tools (variant callers in particular) are selected other than that they represent state-of-the-art. Also why several tools for variant calling are combined is not mentioned, though the referred paper (Alioto et al. , 2015) makes a clear case for this, at least for somatic variant calling. The paper title makes it clear that Sarek is for whole genome sequencing analysis, but as stated in the text, Sarek is also applicable to exome and targeted panel analyses where the authors say it has been run successfully. Many researchers are using exome sequencing, so it could be of interest to know if the authors have an opinion or experience with how use of targeted sequencing data limit Sarek in terms of accuracy or utility, for example, are the tools used for structural variant calling able to handle exome data well (to the extent possible with targeted sequencing?) The documentation has a small chapter stating that the authors recommend supplying a BED file with the targeted regions, but there is not so much explanation of what the effect of this is. The authors demonstrate that Sarek is both fast and accurate by running it on a tumor/normal(germline) dataset from a previous benchmark study. I think this is acceptable/sufficient, but one could always wish for more; the paper could be strengthened by for example running the well-known public germline HG001 sample against the Genome In a Bottle gold standard dataset. Accurate somatic variant calling is difficult. But the included benchmark study demonstrates that Sarek performs well in comparison with other pipelines. The tool leaves it up to the user to decide whether to use output from a single variant caller or the union or intersection from all tools for increased sensitivity or precision. In summary, I think Sarek is a great addition to the community and recommend the paper for indexing. 