Unfortunately, there are many issues with this paper and the underlying studies, to the extent that the authors really need to rethink the entire programme of research reported. The authors have the very laudable objective, of identifying potential new treatments for Alzheimer's disease. They focus on identifying inhibitors of the BACE1 enzyme. This is a drug target that has been the subject of intense activity over the past 10+ years in Pharma, biotech and academic drug discovery. Many inhibitors of BACE1 have been reported in the literature and in patents together with multiple crystal structures and associated data. A quick search in ChEMBL indicates 8700 inhibitors for human BACE1 and 385 crystal structures in PDBe. Furthermore, multiple compounds have progressed into clinical trials, including several into Phase III. Unfortunately, however, these have been unsuccessful, to the extent that the so-called "amyloid hypothesis" is under question. Overall, the authors unfortunately do not appear to be aware of, let alone to have made much use, of the available data. They are vague on key aspects of their computational protocols. They do not cite relevant literature, nor do they appear to be aware of key limitations with some of their approaches. There is no experimental validation of their computational predictions. I will now address in more detail some of these issues. A quick search using the ChEMBL interface suggests that there are 474 Ginsenoside analogues using the default ChEMBL similarity search method and threshold (85%). This appears to be much more than the authors report (further, "80-90% similarity" is too vague a description of their approach). These 474 analogues have 4000 reported activities in ChEMBL. However, none of these are against BACE1. Thus, there is no evidence from the literature/ChEMBL that ginsenoside or its analogues bind to BACE1 (nor would there be any particular reason to believe that they are active at this target, on the basis of their chemical structure) Two other drugs were selected, one a known BACE1 inhibitor and the other an ACHe inhibitor. I can understand the logic for including the former, but why was the ACHe inhibitor included? I cannot find any data in ChEMBL to suggest that donepezil has any activity against BACE1. Is this therefore included as a "known inactive" to provide a comparison? There is a crystal structure available of verubecestat bound to BACE1 (PDB code 5hu1). The authors seem unaware of this fact and choose to use a very early BACE1 structure for their docking studies. They make no reference to this known structure when presenting the results of their own docking studies for this molecule. Moreover, the docking mode they obtain is completely different to the known crystal structure... key interactions with the catalytic asp residues are not present and indeed the whole binding mode looks to be wrong. If the authors cannot demonstrate that their docking protocol reproduces known structures I would have serious concerns about all of the subsequent work and the conclusions drawn. A long-standing, and still largely unsolved problem in "docking and scoring" is that the scoring methods in current use are very rarely able to reproduce experimentally measured binding affinities. I would thus have absolutely no confidence in the "binding energies" reported by the authors. The authors provide no supporting evidence nor citations to previous work that validates their docking and scoring protocol in the context of known experimental data. The calculated free energy differences between the known inhibitor verubecestat and the ACHe inhibitor donepezil from their docking calculations is ~1.5kcal/mol. This would translate to just over a 10-fold difference in binding constant. Given that verubecestat has reported pIC50 affinities in the 8.3-9.4 range, this would suggest that donepezil should be a reasonable inhibitor of BACE1. There is no literature evidence that I can find to support this. Given all of this, I can only conclude that all of the reported "free energies of binding" in this paper are wholly erroneous and moreover the docking modes on which they are based are similarly suspect. Irrespective of the issues described above, any predictions made using computational methods should be tested in the laboratory. Thus, we should not be seeing papers such as this which only contain computational predictions (and certainly not in a reputable journal such as f1000). Rather, we need to see experimental validation, by testing some or all of the molecules described in an appropriate assay (possibly also supported by crystal structure determination). There are also a number of smaller problems with the paper including typographical issues (e.g. the caption to figure 2 defers to "BASE1"). In view of the above significant and major problems I will not capture any more of these in this report. 