In the manuscript entitled Short-term effect of acute and repeated urinary bladder inflammation on thigmotactic behaviour in the laboratory rat authors report their observations on the effects of acute and repeated bladder inflammation in open-field associated behavioral parameters like locomotion, thigmotaxis and rearings. In addition, the expression of inflammatory mediators in the bladder was analyzed by RT-qPCR and c-fos expression was quantified in the amygdala. Authors observed that turpentine driven inflammation in the bladder resulted in the up-regulation of inflammatory mediators particularly following acute challenge; these observations were not controlled for the effect of catheterization. Turpentine inflammation was associated with a decreased number of entries in the central area of the open-field area; in this case authors controlled for the effect of catheterization alone and observed that this group displayed a similar phenotype. Again, acutely challenged subjects were more affected. C-fos expression in the amygdala following open-field exposure was inconclusive. The manuscript is well-written and is in many aspects exemplar, adhering to the best practices in data reporting (sample size calculation, inclusion/exclusion criteria for experimental subjects, randomization, among others). Also, authors made available an interesting set of raw data permitting reanalysis to anyone interested. Finally, authors stress the importance of having alternative measures in pain models that go beyond sensory testing. There are however some aspects that need clarification: Authors preformed an exhaustive characterization of inflammation-associated transcripts expressed in the bladder; it is not clear what was the gain of this approach in the context presented by the authors in the introduction to the study; after all the model involved trauma (associated with the catheterization) and the injection of turpentine, therefore inflammation in the bladder was not an unexpected outcome. On the contrary, I would see some advantages if authors would have treated animals with anti-inflammatory drugs or, more importantly, if the strategy was applied in CNS tissues (namely in the amygdala); indeed a number of studies have associated the up-regulation of inflammatory mediators with anxiety-like behaviors. Instrumentation and turpentine animals present a robust decrease in the distance travelled in the open-field most probably as a result of inflammation-driven sickness behavior. Because open-field readouts depend on animals ability to move, other behavioral parameters can be indirectly affected. Have authors controlled for this? Have other measures be taken like animals weight, grooming, body temperature, etc? These would be particularly important in the repeated model. c-fos density values presented for nave animals present an increase over 5 fold between acute and repeated models (in the global analysis; similar increases can be found in the segmented analysis); apart from open-field exposure nave animals should by definition be equal. My concern is that such effect can mask biologically relevant variations of c-fos expression (e.g. ceiling effect). 