This paper, by Dong Liu et al ., represents a solid re-evaluation of the recombinant monoclonal antibody, named SVmab1, that was previously reported in the journal Cell (Lee et al ., 2014) to selectively block human Nav1.7 channels in-vitro and inhibit pain behavior in-vivo. The experiments described in this paper demonstrate that SVmab1, when expressed and purified from HEK293 cells, is not able to block Nav1.7 channels using several distinct voltage-activation protocols. This antibody is also not able to bind to the same peptide antigen that it was reportedly raised against (Lee et al. , 2014), nor does it bind to the purified Nav1.7 domain II voltage-sensing domain (VSD2), nor cells expressing Nav1.7. The experiments described in this paper were carried out with high accuracy and with the appropriate controls and described in sufficient detail in the paper. The patch clamp analysis was especially exhaustive, testing the antibody using multiple voltage protocols covering close-state binding, partially inactivated binding, slow-inactivated binding, and use-dependent binding. I am especially confident in these results since we have conducted a similar analysis of expressed and purified SVmab1 antibody at Genentech and also failed to detect binding or Nav1.7 blocking activity. One potential concern is that the methods used to produce SVmab1 here (HEK293 cells) are different than those used by Lee et al ., who used hybridoma expression techniques. Perhaps there are differences in post-translational modifications between HEK293-expressed and hybridoma-expressed SVmab1, such as glycosylation, that could account for the difference in the observed effects on Nav1.7 channels. Glycosylation differences have been previously observed when antibodies were expressed in different mammalian cell lines (Lifely et al. , Glycobiology. 5:813, 1995) and could in principle alter pharmacology (though probably unlikely). Another possibility is that the sequences presented in the patent application that were used by Dong et al. to express SVmab1 in HEK293 cells are not correct. This uncertainly could be resolved if the authors of Lee et al. provided detailed mass spectrometry data on their hybridoma-expressed SVmab1 and/or deposited the hybridoma to the ATCC. It is striking that SVmab1 lacks the ability to bind to the same peptide antigen used to generate the antibody (confirmed by Genentech). The sequence presented in the patent application is also unusual as it lacks somatic mutations in the heavy and light variable domains (VH and VL) that are normally present in potent and specific monoclonal antibodies. Only one non-germline residue difference is found in VL at Kabat position number 96 (W96L), which is at the VJ junction and likely due to VJ junctional diversity (not somatic mutation). Similarly, only three non-germline residues are found in VH (in CDR 3 at Kabat positions 95, 96, and 100), which are also likely the product of junctional diversity (not somatic mutation). Otherwise the VH segment is identical to the VhJ558.53 gene in the BALB/c mouse described by Haines et al. (Mol. Immunol. 38:9, 2001). The lack of affinity for the peptide antigen, and the lack of somatic mutations in VH and VL, again raises the possibility that an incorrect antibody sequence is presented in the patent application. Minor comments: 1. Dong et al . identified a “positive control antibody” that they used as a control in binding experiments. This antibody was generated at Abmart (which also generated SVmab1 itself) and was expressed and purified from hybridomas (instead of HEK293 cells). However, only peptide binding and VSD2 binding data are shown (both positive). It would be interesting to also determine whether this antibody is able to bind to native Nav1.7 (by FACS) and/or modulate Nav1.7 (by patch clamp). In summary, Dong et al. have nicely demonstrated the inability of SVmab1 to modulate Nav1.7 channels in-vitro. These results call into question the findings of Lee et al., which previously had suggested the potential for identification of monoclonal antibodies capable of selectively blocking Nav1.7 both in-vitro and in-vivo. If the antibody sequence presented in the patent application is in error or if there are essential post-translational difference between hybridoma-expressed SVmab1 and HEK293-expressed SVmab1, it is my hope that Lee et al. will clarify this so that their work can be appropriate replicated.