The discussion initiated by Davis et al . 1 , in their critical commentary of Segendahl et al. s publication in Nature Neuroscience 2 should be recognized as a valuable contribution to our attempt to understand how brain function relates to pain perception. Davis et al. , and following commentaries from Apkarian 3 and Borsook 4 , make salient points regarding methodological and interpretive limitations of Segendahl et al.s published work. One key point is how a weakly powered imaging study can lead to a limited result. In this case, finding that only the dpIns shows a significant relationship to evoked pain intensity is not enough to conclude that the dpIns is necessary and sufficient for pain intensity perception (aka, constituting a pain center). Davis et al. and Apkarian specifically decry the concept of a pain center in the brain, and I believe our field has rejected this concept as a useful construct. But, to be fair, the term pain center does not appear in the Segendahl et al. paper. Two statements in the concluding part of their article are as follows: Thus, a growing body of literature suggests that a subsection of the posterior insula is both anatomically and functionally well suited to serve a primary and fundamental role in pain processing. And: we were able to identify the dpIns as subserving a fundamental role in pain and the likely human homolog of the nociceptive region identified from animal studies. I dont find these unreasonable statements, although one could argue over what the meaning of is in this context. However, one unjustified claim appears in the abstract: We exploited arterial spin-labeling quantitative perfusion imaging and a newly developed procedure to identify a specific role for the dorsal posterior insula (dpIns) in pain. As other commentators noted, Segendahl et al s work does not provide evidence of specificity of function, either in terms of the dpIns being the only brain region of consequence (note the statistical power issues raised by other referees), nor in terms of specificity of dpIns function (as evidenced by many papers showing non-pain protocol engagement of the region). So, if we can agree to abandon the concept of (primary pain cortex), should we still consider the concept of primary nociceptive cortex? We dont regard V1 or A1 as for sight or hearing. Rather, they are recognized as essential cerebral areas for early sensory processing leading to their respective perceptual experiences, functioning in concert with other cerebral regions. Is there a value in looking for an analogous cerebral cortical region for nociception, and if so, would the real estate identified by Segendahl et al. qualify? (I say this in full recognition that the cerebral region identified in their paper, as in nearly all imaging studies targeting this region, is not clearly distinguishable as either dorsal posterior insula vs. parietal operculum/S2.) One very critical difference between the nociceptive vs. visual or auditory systems is that there are multiple thalamo-cortical pathways for nociceptive signals to reach the cortex, as shown most directly in primate studies such as Dum et al. 5 . This begs the question of whether there is a nociceptive cortex. In 1999, Howard Fields noted that not everything unpleasant is painful, and that we should have a term for the psychophysical property of an unpleasant somatic sensation that allows us to identify it as pain. 6 He offered up the term , and suggested that pain could be considered a combination of algosity and unpleasantness. One could also think of algosity as the perceptual consequence of recognizing nociceptor activation. If this concept has value, and I believe that many of us in the field do, should we be able to identify a cortex that has a fundamental or even an essential role in algosity? References 1. Davis KD, Bushnell MC, Iannetii GD, St Lawrence K, et al.: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; referees: 2 approved]. F1000Research . 2015; 4 : 362 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 2. Segerdahl AR, Mezue M, Okell TW, Farrar JT, et al.: The dorsal posterior insula subserves a fundamental role in human pain. Nat Neurosci . 2015; 18 (4): 499-500 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 3. Apkarian A: Referee Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; referees: 2 approved]. F1000Research . 2015; 4 : 362 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 4. Borsook D: Referee Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; referees: 2 approved]. F1000Research . 2015; 4 : 362 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 5. Dum RP, Levinthal DJ, Strick PL: The spinothalamic system targets motor and sensory areas in the cerebral cortex of monkeys. J Neurosci . 2009; 29 : 14223-14235 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 6. Fields HL: Pain: An unpleasant topic. Pain . 1999. S61-S69 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Greenspan JD. Reviewer Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :362 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7347.r9718 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-362/v1#referee-response-9718 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Apkarian AV. Reviewer Report For: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula [version 1; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :362 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7347.r9627 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-362/v1#referee-response-9627 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 07 Sep 2015 Apkar Vania Apkarian , Department of Surgery and Anesthesia, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7347.r9627 The correspondence by K. Davis and colleagues regarding the recently published study by Segerdahl et al . raises important and valid concerns regarding the conclusion of the paper. The issue is important as the report appeared in a high visibility journal, ... Continue reading READ ALL 