In this opinion manuscript, Zhou and Zhu highlight recent research that suggests estrogen can act on opposing signaling pathways to either promote proliferation or cell death in breast cancer cells and, further, that the signaling can be biased toward cell death by inhibition of IKKa action. The manuscript is thought provoking and timely and the argument is logical and generally well-constructed. The title is eye-catching and appropriate. The figure is attractive and highlights the key point of the manuscript. If the areas of concern (below) are addressed, the conclusions will be justified by the argument presented. I have four areas of concern: The manuscript is marred by frequent grammatical and English language usage errors as well as occasional typographic errors. While readable, it is sometimes difficult to determine the precise meaning of the authors statements. In the introduction, the authors state that estrogen, in combination with IKKa, can induce breast cancer apoptosis. However, it is IKKa inhibition that is used, suggesting that it is the absence of IKKa effect that is important - this should be clarified as currently the penultimate sentence of the introduction paragraph appears to be contradicted by the sentence following. The authors propose that IKKa inhibition has great promise for clinical use, but fail to remark on factors that would be important for feasibility of such therapy (see below): If IKKa were inhibited systemically, would apoptosis be largely limited to the cancer cells? What about other estrogen target tissues? Are there known toxicities of BAY or other IKKa inhibitors that would need to be considered? Are the concentrations of estradiol and IKKa inhibitor necessary to induce cell death achievable in humans? Are the concentrations of estradiol required for induction of cell death in the normal pre-menopausal range, or are these pharmacological levels: important implications for treatment of women with functioning ovaries and for the thrombogenic side effects of estrogen therapy, which are dose-related. 4. The abstract does not effectively summarize the manuscript.