 Manuscript Review The novel POSEIDON stratification of ‘Low prognosis patients in Assisted Reproductive Technology’ and its proposed marker of successful outcome F1000 Research The premise of this opinion article was to expand the discussion on the POSEIDON stratification system, including new and important information about this new concept. First, the authors demonstrated the researchers' dissatisfaction with the existing criteria for the definition of poor ovarian response (POR). As discussed in the article, dozens of randomized clinical trials have been published using different criteria for the diagnosis of POR. This demonstrates the importance of elaborating new stratification criteria that takes into account relevant prognosis information for POR patients. As discussed by the authors, the fact that the different strategies proposed by the clinical trials do not show improvement of in vitro fertilization cycles outcomes could be related to the dilution of the effect size when using a broad POR classification. Strategies developed for more specific groups of patients may demonstrate different reproductive outcomes. This information is of utmost relevance, especially in patients diagnosed with POR. The division of patients in subgroups would allow a more refined and individualized strategy for specific groups of patients. Secondly, age criterion is essential to estimate the prognosis of in vitro fertilization cycles, due to the increase in the rates of aneuploidy as the maternal age advances. The inclusion of this criterion for dividing patients’ subgroups is of great value. The POISEDON marker of successful outcome, based on the number of oocytes necessary to achieve euploid embryo transfer, may assist reproductive specialists for counseling purposes. In conclusion, the POSEIDON stratification concept presents several advantages when compared to previously described models. This facilitates the evaluation of strategies that could result in increased success of in vitro fertilization cycles for specific subgroups of patients. In addition, reproductive specialists would be able to better advise patients about their treatment prognosis.