The authors explore the population dynamics of a long-term monitored guanaco population (36 years) in the Chilean Tierra del Fuego, trying to discern if the process is governed by population size and/or environmental (climatic) variables, assuming that guanaco growth rate follows a density-dependent process. Although the topic is very interesting, the authors have room to improve the manuscript. Below the authors will find major and minor comments. Major comments The manuscript is classified as a “Research article” when indeed it seems a “Short note”. It would greatly benefit from deeper and more detailed explanations of: The theory of ungulate population dynamics, driven by density-dependent and density-independent processes; please expand this topic in the introduction and discuss more deeply your results considering the theoretical framework (see comments below). The census methodology (see comments below). Statistical modeling (see comments below). Ungulate populations are regulated via endogenous forces (density-dependent processes), and exogenous forces (density-independent): weather and predation. Weather determines the primary production, i.e. the resource (forage) availability, which in turn determines the carrying capacity. On the other hand weather, through extreme conditions (e.g. severe winter climate), modulates population dynamics (starvation, survival). Predation is considered an important force which shapes population dynamics as well. In addition, poaching or overhunting act as predation, and competition with other ungulates is another important exogenous force. With this framework authors should justify: The background supporting the study, as it currently is a bit poor, in my view. The authors should explain more in detail, for example, which are the differences between the density-stabilizing and the density-limiting processes, or the evidence of including climatic variables when modelling population growth rate trends. The use of these climatic variables: the average annual precipitation and winter temperature. Without any justification, authors could have also included others variables in the models, as climatic variables do not account for the pattern described, but this doesn’t necessarily mean that climate hasn’t got any effect on the guanaco population growth rate. Moreover authors should explain if these two climatic variables are selected as indicators of primary production and harsh weather conditions. As authors stated in introduction, guanaco populations have undergone overhunting (poaching) and competition with sheep, these being two of the major forces of their dramatic decline in the last century. For that reason, it is quite surprising that no variables related to livestock were included in the modelling procedure. The population has increased a lot in the studied period (x8) and just climate and/or density-dependent process do not explain alone such increase in my view. Therefore authors should consider including livestock effects, its influence on resource availability along the studied period and the mentioned overhunting, as this could really explain the detected trend. The guanaco sampling method has changed during the studied period (different band widths). Besides, were the transects chosen based on the topography and vegetation cover of the ranch to ensure that all areas were visible to census-takers along their transects? I am not sure if that could be a source of error, but authors should discuss this point. Moreover, I recommend authors to re-analyze their data using the DISTANCE program (Buckland et al., 2004) to estimate population size over the period, as the analyses performed by this package seems much more robust that the one employed by authors. If they do so, authors could also include topographic variables in the models to see whether the resulting models change. The reason is that the authors do not explain if guanacos occur in both biomes (steppe and forest), because if that was true, detection of guanacos was completely different in both ecosystems. Therefore the band width of 500 or 1000m is not valid for forests. Regarding the population size estimated along the 36 years (Supplementary table), important (huge) differences are found, for example between 2004 and 2005 or between 2006 and 2007, or between 2007 and 2008. My concern is if such “jumps” could be related to the census surveyed. Please discuss this point. The analytical approach employed by the authors doesn’t seem appropriate in my view, as they also recognize in the discussion, and that could be the reason for not finding any climatic variable significant in the model: The authors use a stepwise regression when other approaches such as logistic regressions, Ricker or Beverton–Holt models could give more suitable results. Please explain or justify your decision. The selection of the best model among the candidates should be done by Akaike’s information. Minor comments Refer to climatic variables or climatic effects, instead of climatic covariables. Explain more in detail Corani Gatto’s studies. Please remove information related to metabolic studies between guanacos and sheep (1st paragraph of study area section). Please add Nothofagus spp among the brackets after deciduous forest (study area section) if it is the case. Give more information about livestock ranching, density, and size and the relation of livestock rangers with guanacos along the studied period (study area section). Are the guanacos found both in the steppe and the forest biomes? Please re-write the paragraph related to guanaco sampling through transect method in the consecutive periods (it is not clear enough). Please remove information related to binoculars and GPS brands (did the authors use the same gadgets across 36 years?). Explain the interest of using time lags (T) as covariables in the model. Please add the Statistica version employed. Please move explanations of the analyses perform from results to material methods section. 