The manuscript reports a new tool, NG-Tax, for analysis of 16S data which has been tested and benchmarked utilizing several mock communities. The manuscript is well written and clear. In particular, the introduction demonstrates the authors’ expertise and understanding of the issues and hurdles in analyzing 16S data. The data presented depicts the performance of NG-tax as compared to QIIME using default settings for both tools. As it stands, the manuscript is ready for indexing following the relatively minor comments below. There is one caveat, however, to our recommendation for indexing, stemming from the use of a now deprecated version of QIIME (version 1.X) for benchmarking. Since the initial submission of the manuscript in July 2016, a major revision of QIIME has been released (version 2.X) and therefore a more appropriate benchmark would be to compare against the latest version of QIIME. Importantly, some of the changes made in QIIME 2.X were to address the very problem that motivated the development of NG-Tax. A similar concern was raised by a previous reviewer (J. Tremblay), who criticized the use of QIIME with default settings given that these settings are known to be sub-optimal. The issues raised by default settings in QIIME have been examined by the QIIME team and optimal settings analyzed 1 . Nonetheless, the authors’ response to Tremblay’s criticism applies to ours and therefore we don’t feel it is a requirement for recommending indexing. The real test of NG-tax will be when it is utilized by disparate researchers on real datasets over time, and thus dwelling on which is the most appropriate benchmark is beyond the scope of the current paper. Minor edits required/recommended before indexing are below: 1. The authors state that RDP was replaced with SILVA SINA to classify sequences, however, the Figure 2 column heading reads SINA, while the Figure legend still lists RDP. 2. Figure 4. The figure obfuscates the point by presenting too much material. Since the figure’s point is to show the poorer estimates of prevalence and mis-identifications in QIIME compared to NG-tax, it would be easier to see this point if there were fewer barcharts presented. Since any set of charts would suffice to make the point, we would recommend that the Reverse read barcharts (QIIME) be moved to supplemental data to simplify the figure. Similarly, move the V4 data to supplemental and only present V5-V6 for both NG-Tax and QIIME. Further, perhaps discuss an exemplary disparity between expected and observed in QIIME versus NG-Tax - especially one of mis-identification. Lastly, the figure legends do not provide enough information so that the figures stand alone without the manuscript text. 3. Figure 6. It is difficult to see that triangles are “darker”. We propose you omit the word “darker” in the legend and only call attention to the “circles” and “triangles” that distinguish the samples. 4. Correct typo in the word “assess” in the following sentence in the introduction “still is no complete consensus about the best variable regions of the 16S rRNA gene to asses”. 5. In the “Barcoded PCR” methods, it is stated that 30 or 35 cycles of PCR were tested to quantify noise generated by the PCR protocol. The results are alluded to in the text as being presented in figure 6, however, it is unclear where they are shown as the figure only lists the four mock communities (MC1-4) and expected outcomes. 