This comprehensive review of seasonality, mood, circadian regulation, and their inter-relatedness is of great value for the creation of new hypotheses in the field and gives impetus for a number of new studies. The title is appropriate even though the paper touches on a number of additional subjects such as separate morningness and eveningness oscillators and the regulation of thyroid function in relation to mood. The abstract covers the content of the paper. Many theories are presented and perhaps the red thread is sometimes a little difficult to follow in the narrative. Of the many ideas presented the hypothesis regarding separate oscillators for morningness and eveningness is of immediate interest. It should be investigated how this phenomenon is reflected in the rating scales used to assess chronotype and time-dependent preferences. Do we need separate scales for morningness and eveningness? In the quest for understanding the higher prevalence of suicide in springtime authors do not include the widely accepted psychological concept that for a person with persistent depression, the contrast of seeing other persons elation and increased energy in springtime, could contribute to the phenomenon. This raises a more general point: why is the interaction or cascading effect between cognition (thought and emotion) and circadian physiology not included in our understanding of the regulation of mood? A few critical points: Authors uses the word sleep restriction for sleep deprivation (wake therapy). Sleep restriction in the sense of a continuous reduction in sleep time does not induce an antidepressant effect. The effect of sleep deprivation depends on sleep abstinence for a substantial part or the whole of a single night AND the timing of recovery sleep days. Also the effect of sleep deprivation probably relates to the relation between sleep and the activity of the raphe nuclei on the brain-stem and this should be mentioned. Figure 1 is rather busy and could be simplified to enhance readability. On page 5 the effect of darkness as an antimanic treatment is defined as . At this point we should probably regard the evidence of dark therapy, however interesting, as preliminary (and difficult to carry out). The statement, also on page 5, that the effect of sleep deprivation is partly caused by light, is not quite substantiated by the one reference dealing with this issue. Finally, references should be checked for content in relation to their relation to issues discussed in the paper with a more critical attention to the quality of the studies (case reports and pilot studies).