 Summary: This study reports on results of parent training for facilitating speech and language development for four young children with galactosemia and one control child whose parents were not trained in stimulation techniques. Outcome measures were compared with "typical control children" but the origin of that data was not described. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? Citation about speech sound development is based on group studies of chronologically older children. No citations about variability in the pace of development. Would have been appropriate as the outcomes for these children are not supportive of the study rationale and could be due to variability either in diverse implementation by parents of the activities taught via telepractice, or diverse types of potential individual differences in the children. No literature review of parent training techniques, the major implementation method used. Child outcome measures carefully described. No description of outcomes of parent training provided. Those might help to understand data outcomes on child variables measured. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? In this developmental period, parent training is a well established way to conduct intervention. Some outcome variables focused on intervention fidelity and range of potential differences across parents would be appropriate . Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? Very good information on child measurements with respected analyses or tests. No information about parent input analyses. I do not believe they are available. I f applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Not applicable for this pilot study. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? Raw data not available but types of analyses are standards in the field. This aspect of the study is well described. Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? In this pilot cohort of four CG children, one control, and and data from a group of comparison TD children, results do not support assertions made in Discussion. No measure of parent behaviors, the method of implementation for BBC intervention method. Either diverse implementation by parents of the activities they were taught via telepractice, or diverse types of potential individual differences in the children could account for the findings in the pilot data on MBL and SSL the primary issue of interest in measuring BBC intervention outcomes. I am very supportive of the importance of intervention research and focus on early intervention in ‘at risk’ populations. Unfortunately, the number of unknowns that are not yet accounted for in this pilot study of four children and a control suggests that it may be a premature to make assertions about effects of BBC parent intervention with CG children based on this dataset. 