The author sought to provide additional support concerning the neuronal bases of the neuromoral model of antisocial behavior, initially proposed by Raine and Yang (2006) and recently updated by Raine (2019), who reviewed findings on brain mechanisms underlying moral decision-making and antisocial behavior that were published after the initial proposal. Specifically, this comment was intended to provide evidence of the involvement of the insula, cingulate cortex, and striatum in the circuits of the neuromoral model. To that end, the author uses: (a) NeuroSynth (which is not recent) to obtain meta-analytic data from neuroimaging studies of (supposedly) moral decision-making; and (b) results from his own neuroimaging studies focusing on brain circuitries associated with morality. Although the NeuroSynth-based meta-analysis involved 87 studies, it should be noted that: (a) the NeuroSynth performs a semantic search limited to the abstracts of the papers; (b) many of the said studies do not report the involvement of the insula or the cingulate cortex in moral tasks; (c) the NeuroSynth lacks specificity, as moral decision-making is often studied with other constructs, which may have induced the observed brain activity; and (d) automated meta-analyses prevent the careful examination of relevant publication indices, such as the publication/confirmation bias. For these reasons and taking the NeuroSynth results into account, which do not seem substantial per se , it is highly questionable whether the author provides stronger evidence than the one compiled by Raine in his own review to support his cautious arguments. It is worth mentioning that Raine refers to four meta-analyses, and most support the role of the cingulate in the neuromoral circuit, but he also explains that a recent meta-analysis by Eres et al. (2018) does not. Similarly, Raine reports meta-analytic studies that implicate the insula in morality, but he also explains that other meta-analyses do not (one of them was conducted by the author of this comment), leading to the conclusion that evidence is not sufficient to consider the insula as playing a role in moral decision-making. Moreover, given the fact that recent meta-analyses of morality have not directly implicated the striatum (again, one was authored by Han, 2017), Raine judiciously considers its inclusion in the neuromoral model debatable. The studies conducted and reported by the author of this comment do lend additional support to the possible role of the insula and striatum in moral decision-making, but such results do not provide stronger evidence than the meta-analytic findings compiled by Raine. Summing-up, the arguments and results presented here do not make the findings regarding the implication of the cingulate, insula and striatum in moral decision-making any more consistent, nor any less debatable. Both the claim that “the insula, cingulate cortex, and striatum can be considered as parts of the neural network of morality”, and the conclusion that such claim “can be well supported by the analyses that I [the author] introduce here” sound like overstatements. Raine’s cautiousness is still well justified. Minor issues: “circutries”, circutiries, and “evience” are typos. 