Seasonal Influenza Surveillance deploying epidemiological and virological data on patients with influenza virus infection is a global task performed in coordination with WHO requirements. These include sentinel surveillance and hospital surveillance for severe cases of laboratory confirmed influenza. Even though influenza has been studied in depth, there are still some issues that need to be addressed, at least to encourage increase in vaccine uptake and recommendations. There are several issues that are not clear and being this a point observation of just one season, inference is not sound enough to ascertain as evidence. Comparison with previous seasons would be desirable. Comments : One highly contrasted issue is the amplification that children trigger as to transmission of infection to their siblings and household members from the school setting. And this might be prevented by vaccination. (Basta et al . 2009) 1 . So this is not new but it might be relevant for Australia to implement preventive measures, if so this should be stated. During epidemic periods transmission is high and the number of syndromic cases make laboratory confirmation out of range of heath systems. Is this so in Australia? As stated in data sources only laboratory confirmed cases are taken into account for reporting: States and territories differ in how they collect and report data on flu cases. New South Wales 7 and Queensland 8 report the number of samples that test positive for Influenza A and B (lab-confirmed); Australian Capital Territory 9 reports the number of influenza (lab) notifications to the state; and Western Australia 10 , Victoria 11 and South Australia 12 report the number of lab-confirmed influenza cases (strains unspecified ). What is the difference between the three (besides type identification)? Positive for Influenza A and B (lab-confirmed); number of influenza (lab) notifications; and number of lab-confirmed influenza cases (strains unspecified). Do the authors mean type and subtype by strain? Or does it make reference to the strain type? Type A Subtype A H1N1 Strain: A/Brisbane/59/2007 (H1N1) Use the correct term. There is also the climate factor to be taken into account. Do all regions included in the study have the same temperature, humidity range? Some differences in decrease of transmission could also be due to a lesser degree of transmission such as in Victoria and Southern Australia for example. Did this particular season have a different climatology that made it coincide with the school holiday period? The results of the pre-school closure period refer to the baseline epidemic burden of disease, if so then there is a decline before school closure? By the way, the term school closure can be misleading as to a containment preventive measure that can be implemented to stop transmission and what is referred to in the study should be specific to school holiday closure. What has happened in other epidemic seasons should be included to be able to compare and strengthen the results obtained. In the introduction first line: A pandemic is global, so it wasn’t just the UK that was affected. As a matter of fact school closure emerged as one of the non-pharmaceutical strategies during that pandemic and has been implemented in the present COVID-19 pandemic. Sentence should be rephrased. The authors findings could be in the same line as Eames (2013) 2 who stated that allowing some ﬂexibility in holiday timing would provide maximum health beneﬁt from the holiday period, yet this is difficult to carry out because of the different social and labor implications it has for schools, parents, and care givers. Was this the aim of the study? In the conclusions the authors state that: no other intervention has comparable effects. There is no comparison in the study to other non-pharmaceutical mitigation measures. Can you include a reference to this statement? Minor comments: Include label on Figure 1, are they number of cases in total for all states or incidence rates? Please complete. Why does Fig 1 have dates in the x-axis and Figure 2 the week number? Why different, they should be the same. 