Over the last 10 years, a large number of commercially available wearable activity trackers have been offered to the public due to the growing request for individualized health monitoring. While these commercially available devices certainly have a number of advantages compared to traditional wrist actigraphy, such as accessibility and affordability, their general validity remains unclear. Roomkham and colleagues investigated the feasibility of sleep monitoring using the commercially available Apple Watch against the Philips Actiware Spectrum pro, a research grade wrist accelerometer arguing that the performance of the Apple Watch compared favorably to the Actiwatch. This line of research is promising and should absolutely be pursued. That said, we have serious reservations regarding the methodology and analyses conducted by Roomkham and colleagues which unfortunately limits comparison between devices. Our specific comments are outlined below: Abstract: The authors should remove the line reading, “The performance of the Apple Watch compares favorably to the clinically validated Actiwatch in a normal environment”. This is not an accurate statement as it implies that the Apple Watch has been clinically validated. The authors should remove the line reading, “This study suggests that the Apple Watch could be an acceptable alternative to the Philips Actiwatch for sleep monitoring…” for the same reason stated in the above point. Introduction: In the first paragraph of the introduction, polysomnography (PSG) is described as qualitative for examination of OSA and narcolepsy. While we agree that PSG has certain limitations, this statement should be removed as sleep disorders are quantifiably determined using American Academy of Sleep Medicine guidelines. The authors state that the overall aim of this study is to compare the Apple Watch against an actigraph. In actuality, the authors are comparing a variable (ENMO) based off of raw acceleration measurements produced by the Apple Watch, which should be clarified by the authors. In addition, the authors should explicitly state that they are comparing a commercial device against a validated research grade device. Methods: Evaluation framework: Further describe Euclidean Norm Minus One (ENMO) and how this measure is comparable to Philips’ sleep algorithm. It does not appear that sleep diaries were used in this study. Sleep diaries are integral in this line of work and are necessary for determining a number of sleep/wake variables in field-based research. Without any other supplementary information, the only reliable variable that can be used is Time in Bed. Was any supplemental information (e.g., sleep diaries, call-in times) collected from study participants? If so, this information should be presented. If not, this should be included as a limitation. Participants: Additional information is needed about research participants. Participants are described as “healthy”, but no further details are provided; indicate how this was ascertained. Provide additional information on how subjects were screened in general (questionnaires, physical exam, etc.)? The authors should justify the short recording period. Traditionally, devices are worn for days to weeks at a time. For reference, a recently published abstract also using the Apple Watch had participants wear watches for 1 month 1 . Wrist-worn devices: Did subjects have access to the sleep statistics from the Apple Watch? The Actiwatch does not provide any feedback. It is possible that the Apple Watch could have been an unintentional intervention if they received feedback. Please address. Please explain the Core Motion Framework in greater detail and describe the app used to record accelerometer data. Please describe how the Actiwatch data were processed and describe data cleaning methods, if any. How were the devices worn on the wrist? Meaning, was device placement consistent for all participants? If not, this need to be addressed as a limitation. Data processing and analysis: See the point above regarding ENMO. Further explain why 15-second epochs were used as 30-second epochs are standard in sleep scoring. Statistical analysis: Please describe TST and WASO as “actigraphically determined TST and WASO”. TST and WASO can only be accurately determined using PSG. In regards to field studies, a sleep diary is needed to calculate these variables. Sleep Onset Latency provides useful information and should also be reported. The citation used as the basis to quantify the number of wake events is from a study done in infants (Galland et al ., 2012 2 ). Please use a reference(s) in a more relevant study in healthy adults. Results: The authors imputed missing data from the Apple Watch using epochs prior to and after the missing period. Twenty to sixty minutes of a sleep period is a considerable amount of time during which significant changes may have occurred not reflected in the data used as a replacement. The authors should remove the imputed data and reanalyze using a technique designed to account for missing data. Discussion: The authors acknowledge that a major limitation of this study is the limited battery life and memory capacity of the Apple Watch. Due to these limitations, subjects wore the devices for just two consecutive nights, however this is not consistent with information from the manufacturer. Please clarify. 