Abstract Grammar: “Parasites cause” not “parasites causes”. There are currently inadequate therapeutic interventions to manage this endemic tropical disease, transmitted mainly by phlebotomine sandflies hence there is need to develop affordable and effective therapeutic measures. The current study sought to determine the in vitro efficacy of Solanum nigrum methanolic and aqueous plant extracts on Leishmania majo r parasites. When making reference to numbers use digit if more than ten i.e. “three” and not “3”. There should be an indication of the country where the study was contacted, how the plants for plant extracts were collected and the animal models used. There is no indication of how the results of the study were analyzed statistically. Methanolic extract of S. nigrum from Kisii seemed to be more efficacious in vitro since it knocked out the promastigotes at a lower MIC level (0.5 mg/ml) when compared to all other extracts whose effective MIC level was ≥ 1 mg/ml. Last sentence needs rephrasing. Introduction Grammar, especially some words lacking in connectives i.e. in first line the word “by” is missing between “caused” and “Leishmania”. Leishmaniasis represents an important health and socioeconomic problem in 88 countries around the world, where this disease is endemic according to a study by (Dujardin et al. 2008 1 ). There are long sentences which need to be broken to make sense. There is need for the authors to demonstrate the need for investigating the plants they used given that a number of studies show promising results. What was different with the plant? Methods The mice were handled in accordance with the regulations set by the Animal Care and Use Committee at KEMRI. Statistical analyses should be specifically in respect of the assays conducted rather than general presentation. How were survival rates of L. major promatigotes analyzed? Why did the authors not use same concentrations of the test extract and control drugs then increase concentrations of test extracts if required? How was Tukeys test used? Scientific names should be italicized in this section and the rest of the manuscript. Remove repetitions of the methods in this section. Titles of tables should not be combined with what should be footnotes i.e. table 1 and 3. Rework on table 2 for better presentation Avoid use of abbreviation IRs, not standard. Figure 1 not necessary. Discussion Avoid direct repetition of results in discussion i.e. most of paragraph 1. Authors should insert the explanation for why there are differences in extracts after the relevant sentence. What is the relevance of the second paragraph to the current study? Discuss each section of the results separately and thoroughly by comparing with other studies, including own opinions and explanations. References Are the phrases in red font after each reference a journal requirement? If not delete. Datasets sites should be removed from reference section. 