This ambitious paper by Lee and colleagues seems to have several aims, and I fear that the paper suffers from including them all, rather than separating them out into two or more focused manuscripts. The authors provide a review of the literature discussing what is currently known about the association between use of combusted and electronic tobacco products, they evaluate the likelihood of electronic products providing a gateway in to smoking based on seemingly informal, qualitative trend analyses, and they provide an important discussion about the potential for residual or otherwise uncontrolled confounding to explain or partially explain associations that have been noted in the literature. They also provide data from a series of simulations. The simulations demonstrate the interdependence among various tobacco use patterns in predicting population harm or benefit resulting from electronic tobacco products. The most important points from the literature-based sections of the paper are a) the difference between predicted and observed smoking prevalence over time, which should reduce the fear that a large gateway to smoking effect is currently operating; b) the likelihood that misclassification and uncontrolled confounding play a role in the results reported by others, and probably lead to an overestimate of gateway-in effect. The key findings from the simulations are a bit harder to uncover, due to a lack of detail in the methods section and some glossing over of assumptions. The authors found that a gateway-in effect is unlikely to be large enough to substantially affect population health. This is based on the assumptions that a) the current situation, in which smoking is far more prevalent than electronic cigarette use, will remain stable in at least the short run; b) the current higher likelihood of initiating tobacco use with cigarettes vs electronic products will remain stable in at least the short run; and c) the assumptions that the risks associated with electronic products are understood and are definitely lower than risks associated with smoking. If any of these input assumptions were varied, the simulation results would probably be different, and possibly much different. Some of the authors' strongest statements are due to differences between relative and absolute effects: Small percentages of a large underlying population (smokers) affect a large number of people, and large percentages of a small underlying population (electronic product users or initiators) affect a small number of people. Apart from these conceptual concerns, it would strengthen the paper if the input into the simulations were better defined and justified. The analyses presented in Table 8 seem to be the most informative of the simulations. Estimating the rate of the combination of smoking OR vaping OR dual use and comparing the prevalence in each year to the prevalence predicted by trends in smoking would give clues about the population level effects of e-products. Has overall use increased or stayed the same? 