The author provides an excellent foundation for developing an intuitive understanding of null hypothesis significant testing. The concept of using a 20 sided die to assist graduate students and new researchers to better understand what exactly is meant by .05 and how multiple comparisons have a dramatic influence on interpretation is an interesting one — and I believe novel. This intuitive approach can also be used to improve understanding for the general public and overall science communication. Although this report includes a mathematical derivation, which may be too advanced for new scholars or science communication, it provides an excellent rationale for the use of 20 sided die. When can also easily imagine that this rationale can be used better understand robustness of the outcomes of studies that may be influenced by experiment-wise error rates, such as in the cases of multiple attempts at replication or multiple trials of a specific experiment. The 20 sided die provides a concrete and real world method of communicating the complexities of multiple comparisons that is far more user-friendly than random number generators and variations of Monte Carlo studies. I am curious as to whether the exactitude in engineering and manufacturing a 20 sided die will result in exactly equal probability of each number appearing. A six sided die is created with right angles and is relatively easy to create an equal probability of landing on each side. Obviously, this makes no difference or changes the point of the paper; yet, it may add error should anyone actually attempt to roll the 20 sided dice multiple times. Just a thought as I am unsure on this issue. I suppose should a 20 sided die found to contain significant error or even bias, then there would be scandal in the Dungeons Dragons world. The author also deserves credit for establishing high levels of nerd credibility. When Dungeons Dragons, mathematical derivations, and useful statistical communication methods are combined into a single published scientific paper; the trifecta of nerd credibility has been achieved. Overall, this is a well-written report and the mathematics is correct. I am hopeful that the author continues to elaborate on this concept and develops other uses of a 20 sided die for communication and lesson plans in courses on research design and basic applied statistics. This will also be helpful in explaining experiment wise error rate/multiple comparisons in the cases of science communication as well.