Douglas M Lopes et al. have addressed the question of whether it is possible to refine the formalin test without affecting the behavioural outcome important in pain research. They have shown that the use of anaesthesia (sevoflurane) at the injection time reduces the distress of the handling and formalin injection, and the behaviour associated to the first phase while conserving the behaviour associated to the late phase of the formalin injection test. The experiment and the method are well performed, clear to follow for reproducibility and well designed to answer to the initial question. The study mentioned that both female and male mice were used which is very valuable and important in research. However, and except if I have missed it, I am not aware of the presence of a statistical test performed to confirm the absence of a sex-difference in behavioural responses to the formalin test in this study because sex difference can be a factor influencing the pain perception. A clarification would be appreciated as well as the presence of the sex in the source data. Additionally, it is mentioned that wildtype C57BL/6 mice were used for the gabapentin and sevoflurane experiments but without mentioning the exact background while it is clearly mentioned for the transgenic mouse study (C57BL/6NTac). Pain-like behaviour can be influenced by the mouse strains, also behavioural differences have been observed between C57BL/6N and C57BL/6J mice. It would be valuable to mention the exact background for a full reproducibility. The results of the sevoflurane effect, the gabapentin treatment, and Slit1 KO studies are very clear. I did, however, notice a discrepancy in the data from the control group of the Pink1-/- study compared to the control group in Slit-/- study (both C57BL/6Ntac background) and the wildtype C57BL/6 mice in the anaesthesia/gabapentin experiment. The average pain behaviour in the control mice of the Pink1-/- study is almost twice higher than all other group controls and the Pink1-/- mice between the time 20 and 35 min. Could the authors provide a possible explanation about this discrepancy? This might lead to a potential false positive result of Pink1 effect in this study. Ideally, to confirm the effect of Pink1-/- on the behaviour induced by the formalin test, it would be appreciated to repeat this test (Pink1-/- vs its littermate control) with again randomisation and blinding. 