Thank you for the opportunity to review this article – which I think is an important mile stone publication in the business of patient and public involvement in the activity that prepares and contributes to research applications. This is a timely and useful review of the literature and the experiences of the research authors, one day we might look back and realise that investing in this stage of research yields benefits and savings in research down the line. I was interested in the reasons for the authors writing this article and was not surprised to see that it was about the conflation of qualitative research and patient and public involvement in research. This article helpfully, and in a practical way helps to ‘de couple’ the most pertinent issues in this domain. The use of an illustrative example in migraine research helps to bring the review of evidence and discussion in each section to a useful and practical conclusion for the reader, and could be easily re interpreted for their own research context. It is also a strength in this article that research is considered as both primary studies and research synthesis and reviews, both of which require careful patient and public involvement Page 3 – in the section How does patient involvement differ from patient participation in research? “the context and outcomes from listening (to patients) differ. PPI means that researchers are in a continuing and reciprocal relationship with patients and make decisions with them about the research. In qualitative research, researchers listen to patients in order to improve their understanding of a topic”. This is probably the most helpful sentence I have read in a while! The further discussions about the choices of researchers that may or may not include qualitative perspectives in their analysis further underlines that in PPI the power dynamic is different and it is an important difference. Figure 1 is helpful I have a problem with the word iterative – and would suggest a plainer language option especially as the rest of the language used in the diagram is of the non-research variety. Table 2 I struggled with this table maybe because I am not a researcher – I would prefer to see the differences between the two rather than the strengths and limitations of each but can appreciate that for researchers making choices this might be very helpful information and analysis. Boxes 1 and 2 For an article such as this I think that the contents of Box 2 are more helpful for readers untangling what is meant by PPI in pre funded research and would put Box 1 as a supplementary file – this information is more easily found for a curious researcher and Box 2 really adds value to the article as a whole as authors have collected the (sadly) rather large collection of terminology used in PPI and sought to differentiate it. I like the fact that the authors have stated and used their preferred terminology and articulated the reasons for their choice (partnership approaches). Table 1 I imagine this could be immensely useful to researchers and it is a useful comparison tool but positioning in the middle of the narrative is a shame I think as it breaks up the flow of reading. Find out what research questions are priorities for patients I think that there is a step before initiating priority setting exercises that encompass PPI – increasingly there are published accounts of priority setting that may or may not include the perspectives of patients and the public. There is also an emerging checklist to support the quality assessment of these accounts and specifically the degree of PPI in them Tong A., Sautenet B., Chapman JR., Appraisal checklist used in a systematic review of priority setting partnerships in health research (Currently being reworked as a priority setting reporting checklist and will be renamed REPRISE Checklist). Consider equity of opportunity, unheard perspectives and health inequalities This is a particularly important and pertinent section and offers practical advice and ideas for researchers, especially the use of outreach models that offer more scope for addressing these issues more directly, but may put researchers out of their comfort zones. Consider the potential for bias and conflicts of interest This feels an underwritten first paragraph. It feels more important to instigate transparency and declaration of financial and other interests for all research participants – than the more in-depth description of the ‘experienced patient?’. Additionally some text about how to manage these conflicts of interests in patients/public may really help readers address this issue. Agree appropriate funding for patient involvement There are important considerations here especially around equity of involvement – its good to see these spelled out. Training for patients involved in research I was very pleased to see this in the text for this section “For patients new to a PPI role, support to develop their abilities and confidence to express their views and question researchers may be relevant.” A much under-appreciated aspect of PPI, I would suggest that it doesn’t just apply to those new to a role who may find it harder (as am embedded part of the research team) to challenge the research orthodoxy… Also the training needs to be two way – for research teams as well as involved patients and the public. Key messages Important questions I like these but I would include a challenging first question to researchers – ‘Why do they want to do PPI?’ I think that there is an important aspect of self-discovery in PPI in research and it helps to understand self/organisational motivations to doing this preparatory work. These reasons may encompass rational or outcome-based reasons (which the current list addresses) but it is also important to understand motivations on a human and relational level. 