The authors have tried to address the relationship between dermatoglyphics and nutritional status (normal, overweight, and obese) in participants aged 10 to 19 years from the center-west region of Santa Catarina, Brazil using BMI. This is a cross-sectional study on a large sample population and addresses an important health parameter like obesity that is not only local but a global phenomenon. Dermatoglyphics is a relatively easier screening tool that is gaining importance in identifying health-related risks. This article is an important addition to the current literature. Some concerns however remain and need some additional information from the authors. I would like to ask authors to discuss the importance of the use of BMI when there are other more reliable tools to screen individuals’ health statuses. BMI is considered a macro tool and can be used to calculate a baseline value for an ethnically identified population. However, BMI carries inherent flaws when incorporated in a correlation study where a mixed population is under investigation. Introduction section, line 6 says: By 2014, more than 1.9 million adults were overweight. Of these, 600 million were obese. Please correct the discrepancy in figures and provide a valid reference. Page 4, under BMI calculation, the formula needs to be corrected. BMI=Weight in kg/ (Height in mtr) 2 Please provide name and company details of the commercially available dermatoglyphic reader used in this study. The weight of participants was noted on a digital scale nonetheless, considering variations caused due to intake of food or water prior to measurement would give varying results and could impact the reliability of data observed. It is requested that the authors kindly add an additional statement regarding the above concern whether taken into consideration or not. In general, the objectives and study design are acceptable; however, the conclusions drawn from the study allowing prediction of obesity using DGF remains unclear. Authors are requested to carry out additional statistical tests (Regression/correlation) in order to have a compelling reason to conclude the same. 