The authors present an analysis of two biomarkers, Leptin and IGF-1, quantified in maternal and umbilical cord samples collected at delivery. The results are analyzed in association with malaria infection (by blood smear and/or histology) in pregnancy, a leading contributor to adverse birth outcomes in malaria endemic regions. I appreciate the authors’ focus on this important subject matter and present the comments below for their consideration. My comments namely focus on providing additional detail within the article to support the analysis, result and interpretation presented. Comments: Abstract The abstract states “Placental malaria and preterm delivery were associated with low birth weight (2500g).” The authors don’t provide any information in the methods around gestational dating (LMP, ultrasound etc.) and don’t provide any analysis regarding the association with preterm birth. I would remove the association with and discussion around preterm birth Introduction The reference to Dellicour et al. 2010 and 125 million pregnancies includes geographies outside of sub-Saharan Africa. The first two sentences are a bit confusing and might be amended to read “number of pregnancies at risk, number in areas endemic for p. falciparum” since that’s the focus of the study. I would also amend “the main cause” to “a main cause” since malaria is an important contributor but other factors (nutrition, lack of access to antenatal care etc.) are also principal contributors to adverse outcomes. I think the introduction could be expanded to include more background around the selected biomarkers and the rationale for selecting them. e.g. relationship between Leptin and metabolic function (BMI etc.) and pregnancy, perhaps in relation to the nutritional status of women in the cohort. The authors state that “the pathogenesis of placental malaria and LBW is not fully understood” and then move into Leptin. It might be useful top provide some rationale around how the authors proposed Leptin and IGF-1 play a role in the pathogenesis of LBW resulting from placental malaria. I found the paragraph about vaccine development a bit confusing. I would provide more information around how the results of this study (or research on the effects of placental malaria) might contribute to development of a vaccine or potentially remove that paragraph Methods Provide background on any IPTp or anti-malaria clinical care the women in this cohort received in pregnancy (in particular in light of the relatively low levels of active infection), if women were receiving IPTp the authors should comment on how this may impact their results in the discussion (if not the authors should state why women in this cohort did not receive treatment) Provide a rationale for excluding women with hypertension and diabetes mellitus (and how was this diagnosis performed to ensure that the cohort doesn’t include any women with hypertension or diabetes) Provide information around gestational dating (LMP, ultrasound?) Provide additional information around the variable “antenatal care attendance” (e.g. is this number of visits total, number of women reaching 3 or 4 visits, number of women beginning visits in the first or second trimester, was this data collected by questionnaire or from the clinics?) All variables presented in Table 2 should have more information (in table and in methods) e.g. maternal age (years), weight (kg), education level (years), residence (type?), hemoglobin (g/dL) use of bed net (yes/no or months during pregnancy?), maternal leptn (ng/mL) etc.) Missing data should be reported (e.g. are they missing data on birth weight (175-166 = 9 data points on birth weight are missing?)) If these missing cases are home deliveries and/or missing because of very early delivery that could confound the results. Also in Table 4 where n = 47 “infected” but the authors report n = 48 cases of PM+ in the results, the missing data is reported in the figure legend but should also be included in the tables/methods. Are the authors confident that -20 is sufficient? Depending on how long the samples were stored for that might not be sufficient (compared with -80) to preserve the samples. Provide the name/institute of where the pathology took place. -Were the samples analyzed (by ELISA) in duplicate or triplicate? If the numbers of 2 = active infection, 3 = chronic infection are low (n = 5), is it appropriate to analyze that group separately? The authors should provide a rationale for collapsing active, chronic and past infections together in the analyses. If the study was powered with a primary outcome of placental malaria do they have sufficient power for the analysis around LBW if only n = 18 cases of LBW are reported? Authors should provide a rationale for the co-variates selected (a priori based on associations with outcomes or based on analysis-association with outcome of interest) Results Age and parity are likely highly correlated. That should be mentioned in the results (and potentially effects the analysis, for example including co-variates that are highly correlated in a multivariate model can influence the results) The authors present the breakdown of their cohort by blood group, they may want to provide a rationale as to why they present those results or some interpretation of the results in the discussion (did they examine blood group in relation to infection?) Since the results are presented with LBW as an primary outcome (in association with malaria) the authors may want to acknowledge (or examine if they have the relevant data) the relative contribution of preterm birth and small-for-gestational age outcomes to LBW (which will be made up of both PTB and SGA babies) The ELISA results should include the inter-assay co-efficient of variability (CV) and intra-assay. The authors should state “maternal” or “cord blood” (or both) when presenting their results (e.g. in paragraph 1 under the title “Serum levels of leptin and IGF-1” as this is how the results are presented in the tables (they may also want to emphasize in the results that the maternal blood samples were collected at delivery) Under the paragraph entitled “Placental malaria associated with low birth weight”, I was unclear why the reference to Elsheizh et al. was included? All tables, include what statistical tests were performed (e.g. P(t-test) is the result of what analysis?) Table 1, I would avoid the use of the term “lighter” neonates and use the term “delivered neonates with a lower mean weight in comparison with uninfected women” In Table 2 I would avoid presenting results within the table footnotes. Discussion Perhaps provide a discussion around the levels in serum vs. in plasma. I would avoid the statement “failed to reach statistical significance” (also stated in results sections) and say instead (e.g.) “The study showed that leptin…., however, the difference was not statistically significant”. I’m not sure the authors can say that their results “concur with a study conducted in Malawi” if they’re not reporting statistical significance. Perhaps they could state instead that the study in Malawi also observed lower serum levels of leptin in women with placental malaria infection, but reported a statistically significant difference. I would avoid the term “normal weight ones” (last paragraph of the discussion) and say instead “those who delivered at normal birth weight (2500 g)”. The authors may want to comment on the incidence of placental malaria (~27%) and LBW in this cohort (~11 %)…do they think this is low/high? In keeping with previous studies in the same region? Depending on how gestational age was measured (e.g. LMP?) the authors may want to acknowledge that the association between birth weight and gestational age (which is to be expected) will be influence by the method for gestational dating. Minor comments I would recommend reducing the size of the figures and collapsing them into 1 figure with 4 panels (a-d). I would also rename the y-axis titles to read “Leptin in Maternal Blood (ng/mL).” It’s likely also worth noting that “placental malaria” in this case is all cases of malaria (identified by microscopy and histology). It might be worth exploring the levels of Leptin and IGF-1 in maternal blood vs. cord blood. E.g. does placental malaria infection lower the ratio of Leptin or IGF-1 in maternal blood vs. cord blood, do women who delivery LBW babies have a lower ratio of IGF-1 in maternal vs. cord blood? 