The research article “Monitoring the compliance of the academic enterprise with the Fair Labor Standards Act” by Bankston McDowell is a review of academic compliance with changes to the FLSA overtime rules as of Nov. 1. The authors give a good primer on the history of the FLSA overtime rule change and how it is expected to affect academic research starting Dec. 1. They then discuss their extensive outreach to institutions with postdocs, and their efforts to determine how the institutions are adjusting to the new overtime rule with regard to postdoc salaries. This paper and the results of the authors’ outreach are important for the postdoc and larger academic communities to understand how institutions are dealing with the increase to postdoc pay. Major concerns: The authors should devote some space to a discussion of international postdocs and how they are affected by the FLSA overtime rule change. Anecdotally, international postdocs may not be paid on the same scale as American postdocs, even at institutions with well-defined salary minima. Since the nation of origin does not affect whether someone is FLSA exempt, just how widespread the disparities in U.S. versus international postdoc pay are could have significant repercussions in the relative populations of each in the enterprise moving forward. The authors should take the time to explain exactly what is going on in Boston. There seems to be an assumption that the reader will know all of the institutions that are classified under “Harvard” or “MIT”. The assumption comes across in phrases such as institutions “…cannot be more than a small proportion…” As someone who has never done research in Boston, it is not clear to me why this phrase must be true. The authors should take the time to indicate, both in the text and Table 1, which institutions are part of “Harvard” for example, which have released decisions about postdoc pay, and why this may be confusing for postdocs employed there. The conclusions section opens with a meandering and confusing sentence and the first section is about the difficulties of data collection. I agree these are real concerns, but the authors should state their overall and most important conclusions at the beginning of this section as a way to frame the rest of the discussion. Minor concerns Background The sentence beginning, “The other key change is indexing…” is not clear. Recommend breaking the sentence into two with the second sentence starting something like, “This means the OT threshold will be $51,168 in 2020.” It would be helpful to know the current status of H.R. 6094. Was it vetoed or does it await action? On page 4, in the paragraph about the test that must be passed to be eligible for overtime pay, the authors should consider a short example at the end of the paragraph. For example, “A first year postdoc in 2015 earning a salary of $XX,XXX would pass the salary basis test, would fail the salary level test and pass the standard duties test. Hence the focus on the overtime pay threshold.” In the paragraph starting “The minimum salary should therefore…”: for consistency, recommend the authors indicate years experience as they do in Fig. 1 (Year 0, 1, etc.) as opposed to calling them “new postdocs”. The two problems with the assumption of the NRSA minimum as the actual minimum pay for postdocs, as I understand them are, (1) transparent salary information does not exist and (2) institutional salary minima are unknown or unenforced. These seem very similar problems to me and I don’t understand the distinction the authors are trying to make. I recommend the authors draw a starker division between the two problems they see or discuss them as one. Due to the date-sensitive nature of the information, I recommend the authors add the date to the titles of all figures and tables. In the discussion, the comparison between medical residents and postdocs: The authors should explicitly state why, after each condition they site, why postdocs would be more likely to report violations. For example, “…debts in the academic path, meaning postdocs are significantly less dependent on academic employers and may be more inclined to report violations.” “…postdocs end up leaving academia meaning postdocs are less likely to be concerned about how academic employers will view their willingness to report violations.” “…compared to the relatively lower (undergraduate) student debts…” It is not clear why the authors specify these as undergraduate debts. Graduate students can also secure student loans. I recommend removing the parenthetical. 