In this manuscript, the authors propose two models of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in zebrafish larvae to study post-hemorrhage brain injury. The authors compare a genetic (bubblehead) and chemically inducible (atorvastatin) model of spontaneous ICH and elegantly show assessment of cell death and inflammation in these models using live non-invasive imaging. In addition, they present data on locomotor activity as a functional outcome measurement. First of all, I want to congratulate the authors on this high quality study that is timely and relevant to the ICH community as spontaneous models that allow higher throughput screening of potentially protective or regenerative compounds are clearly needed in the field ( Hemorrhagic Stroke Academia Industry (HEADS) Roundtable Participants, 2018 ). Although new to the ICH community, zebrafish models have multiple advantages that may be of great use in this research area (as well as in others). I have a couple of suggestions that I hope will be beneficial to further improve the quality of this excellent publication: We and others have recently established that neurons die by multiple different regulated cell death mechanisms after ICH, including ferroptosis and necroptosis ( Zille et al, 2017 , Li et al, 2018 ). Therefore, the authors should discuss the limitation of the cell death marker, Annexin V, used in their study. Annexin V detects exposure of phosphatidiyl serine on the cell surface. On the one hand, this is not specific to apoptosis since when the cell membrane is disrupted phosphatidylserine can be detected intracellularly (and hence should not be claimed to analyze apoptotic cell death, e.g. in Methods section) ( Munoz et al, 2013 , Sawai et al, 2011 , Zille et al, 2012 ). On the other hand, this only reflects a specific subset of cell death. This may also explain why cell death was detected only in a subset of larvae and at one specific time point which is also a relatively narrow time window. Is there a possibility to determine the involvement of other cell death mechanisms in zebrafish (e.g., GPX4 for ferroptosis or pRIP1/3 for necroptosis)? Undoubtedly, the exact cell death mechanisms warrant further exploration in future studies including pharmacological and molecular interventions. The authors nicely show side-by-side comparison of both bubblehead and atorvastatin model. What is the main difference between the two? Therefore, the authors should make fluorescence pictures from both available in Fig. 2, the same time course in Fig. 3 as well as subgroup analysis in Fig. 4 and 5. Was only one of the two investigated regarding macrophages or are they pooled in this analysis? One of the differences seems to be the occurrence of edema in the bubblehead model. This is very interesting as it is also a key feature in the ICH pathophysiology. The authors should provide pictures on both models over time. Is it possible to quantify the edema? Locomotor activity: How does swimming time represent functional outcome of the larvae? Would distance travelled be an alternative readout? What is the size of the hematoma and does it correlate with cell death, locomotor activity or macrophage activation? For the atorvastatin model, was the 1M dose used in Figure 2-5? If not, maybe the clusters of positive and negative for Annexin V correspond to the dose of atorvastatin? One of the major disadvantages of the larvae model is that it uses young animals. Is it possible to use atorvastatin to induce ICH in old zebrafish? Regarding modeling human disease, another difference is that there is no mortality in this model at least not to the time points investigated. Do they die at earlier time points than their wildtype/untreated littermates? Do higher dosages of atorvastatin induce mortality in the larvae due to ICH? Minor: From the data where replicates were acquired, please specify whether the mean or median was chosen. What is the % MS222 used as lethal overdose? Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 