The aims of the study were to understand vaccine hesitancy among parents in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, by determining the prevalence of VH among parents and to identify the predictors associated with a vaccine hesitant attitude. Substantial revisions are necessary to be addressed. The paper also needs editing by a native English person. Introduction The introduction is too long and should be considerably condensed. Methods It is not indicated how many Health Community Clinic are present in the geographic area. Please clarify. It is not given any information regarding a pilot study for testing the survey questionnaire. Please clarify. It should be indicated who and how many investigators approached the sample. Please clarify. The Authors should clarify about the face-validity testing of the questions with an explanation of the validity of the content of the questions with regard to the research aims. The Authors should clarify if the questionnaire was anonymous and no personally identifiable information was collected. The Authors should clarify whether the participants have received any gift or monetarily compensated. One of the major methodological weakness is that the sample size calculation indicated that 275 was the target size and a total of 380 questionnaires were distributed. However, when parents with at least one child were included the giving sample size was only 221. Since one of the aims of the study was to determine the prevalence of Vaccine hesitancy among parents, it is not clear why the selection was not restricted only to parents. The statistical analysis is not, strictly speaking, adequate, because it would be particularly relevant to describe the model developed, the variables included, and the rationale why they are included. Moreover, it should be indicated if the statistical tests were one-side or two-sides. It would be particularly relevant to include in the model the source of information. Results No information is given about how many individuals refused to participate and the response rate should be included. If not all patients have agreed to participate, no information is given about them. Was there any attempt to quantify the response bias: information about non-responders. It would be useful to have some kind of indication of comparability with non-respondents. Is there any population-based data available? How did they differ from those in the sample, how representative is the sample and were the findings representative? The characteristics of the sample should be considerably condensed. The results of the ORs and of the 95% CI should be with only two decimals. Discussion It should be inserted a deeper comment regarding the results of previous surveys conducted in different geographic areas on vaccine hesitancy. The following articles should be cited: Dub Human Vaccines Immunotherapeutics 2019;15(1):113-120 1 . Napolitano et al. Human Vaccines Immunotherapeutics 2018;14:1558-1565) 2 . Page 16: It is stated that Trust in the health system and health providers, who recommend the use of vaccines and determine the vaccination schedules, has a heavy bearing on the development of VH among parents. The role of health professionals is vital and additional references regarding other studies in order to support the statement should be added. Cite: D’Alessandro et al. Hum Vaccin Immunother 2018;14:1573-9 3 ; Ragan et al. Vaccine 2018;36:331-41 4 ; Napolitano et al. Hum Vaccin Immunother 2016;12:1504-10 5 . The paragraph regarding the main limitations of the study should discuss all limits such as, for example, the recall bias and the social desirability bias. Figures and Tables Tables 7 and 8 should be condensed and should report only the OR (with only two decimals), the S.E., the 95% CI (with only two decimals), and the p-value. Figures 1 to 6 should be deleted. Table 5 should be deleted. 