This paper considers a workshop conducted to support students preparing a summative written assignment, which had the unplanned benefit of improving critical thinking skills, as evidenced by higher assignment grades. The development of higher-order thinking skills in undergraduate students is of considerable relevance in relation to the employment prospects of the increasingly diverse student body; this study is therefore a useful contribution to the literature. I have some suggestions below, consideration of which may improve the paper. Hypothesis 1. There is overlap between hypotheses 1 (by encouraging [students] to approach written assignments as questions that need to be answered, students are more likely to engage with higher level learning outcomes) and 2 (students who pose a question in their title will obtain higher marks, as evidence of higher-level skills). Hypothesis 1 is not tested by any analyses, and I cant think of an appropriate approach to do. Since demonstrating higher-order learning outcomes and gaining higher marks are so closely related, perhaps no further analysis is warranted and H1 should be lost. If H1 is retained, the analyses and the Results will need expansion. Learning outcomes. Achieving higher-level learning outcomes by demonstrating critical thinking skills is at the heart of this paper. However, whilst the Assessment C marking criteria allude to higher-level learning outcomes (e.g. shows convincing evidence of understanding compared to fails to show evidence of understanding), no specific words (e.g. evaluate compared to describe ) are used. Therefore, evidence that higher learning outcomes have been achieved could be more explicit; perhaps some descriptive text (including essay extracts) could be added to the Results to provide qualitative evidence that higher level learning outcomes were met. Participants. More detail of the cohort characteristics would be useful to justify the We believe this group statement, in particular in relation to ethnicity. At my own institution, BME groups are poorly represented on the Ecology pathway of BSc (H) Biological Sciences (who would take a Behavioural Ecology module) compared to, for example, those studying Biomedical Sciences. In the context of Narrowing the Gap initiatives, the ethnic composition of the cohort could usefully be clarified. Methods. The Methods are clear and supplementary material is very useful. More detail could be provided on some aspects to meet the journal guideline that the work should be repeatable by others. For example, clarify how the function of a good essay was (could further supplementary material usefully be provided)? The statistical approach used is robust - would a brief description of / introduction to GLMMs (or perhaps a reference to further information) be useful? Expanding on my comments, consider whether analyses exploring differences between cohort sub-groups (e.g. ethnicity groups) would be useful Results. A few basics need adding e.g. how many students were in the and groups. Also, as mentioned in the Learning outcomes section above, consider adding qualitative evidence that higher level learning outcomes were met. Finally, the information presented in Table 1 is very limited and replicates Figure 1; I suggest Table 1 be lost and the mean / SD included in the text. Discussion. As well as recommendations for future research, the Discussion could usefully clarify how you might adapt the seminar in future, to maximize benefits and reduce the proportion of students who do not grasp the underlying concept. Study limitations. The lack of certainty about which students did / did not attend the workshop is unfortunate, but the limitation is recognised and this limitation does not undermine the usefulness of the study. Similarly, the lack of replication does reduce confidence in the results, but recommendations for a more extensive study are appropriate. Minor points I cannot spot 8 key words, have these been provided? presenting a question/problem to the reader isnt a direct quote from Chanock, so Im not sure quote marks are suitable. Use the past tense to describe work done: allowed in the Abstract; investigated in the Methods. Information about all methods is under the subheading. Its odd to specify summative coursework both assessments are summative. Avoid undefined abbreviations e.g. The semi-colon is used incorrectly e.g. and these as opposed the clause after the semi-colon must be capable of standing alone as an independent sentence. Ensure phrases are sufficiently specific e.g. to help the students do this is a bit vague. Look for opportunities to be more concise e.g. remove in order to / it is important to state that. The ampersand is informal so should be replaced with and (e.g. DH LM) Hyphenate adjectival phrases e.g. subject-specific .