Please note that I am not a qualitative researcher so I have not made comment on these methodological matters. This report on the experience of 16 Australian Guideline developers in Australia is a very useful reality check for those embarking on, or responsible for updating, Clinical Practice Guidelines. I agree with reviewer Martin that the purposive sampling from “those who attended NHMRC-hosted forums” is likely to introduce bias. The authors could provide details of how many developers attended these forums, and potential bias due to familiarity of interviewees with interviewers. It would be of interest to interview developers who were not seeking NHMRC endorsement. The article covers the challenges of data extraction and synthesis well, exploring participant views on potential solutions including technologies such as machine learning. Whilst these are designed to improve efficiency, potential compromises to reliability of Guidelines should be highlighted as an area for future research. I would have liked to have learned more about efficient methods for disseminating guidelines or updates and monitoring the uptake and use of new Guidelines and updates, as well as for opportunities for users to score utility of the Guideline. There is potential for data to be collected on citations, number of digital downloads, the density of hits could identify hot and cold spots where and when Guidelines are being utilised and where and when they are not. Leading to targeted efforts to improve uptake in ‘cold spots’. Updating was also very interesting and important – targeting searches towards clinical queries where there is low confidence and having questions that could be ‘switched off’ is a pragmatic option. One of the issues with updating is how to handle assessing the impact of updates on Guideline recommendations – keeping a review group over time who can determine whether an update changes current recommendations or changes the level of certainty or confidence in a recommendation, and what should be ‘published’. This is perhaps briefly touched on by “… without the rest of the guideline apparatus being in place.” When the evidence is low quality, new data could have a significant impact on a recommendation. In this instance there is also potential for recommendations to ‘flip-flop’ over time, leading to frustration and perhaps distrust of the Guideline. The article raises critical and urgent need for Australia to invest in research to answer the many challenges set out by the respondents. I don’t have specific recommendations for change, and look forward to reading more on progress in this space. Without such progress there will surely be a threat to quality of health care in Australia. 