This study reports the impact of three different red fluorescent protein (RFP) tags on the expression and toxicity patterns of Httex1 in yeast by benchmarking them against the green fluorescent protein tagged Httex1 as the established model system in the literature. The authors reveal some differences in their effects on Httex1 toxicity and these results are likely to be of interest to those in the Httex1-polyQ field. Overall, the manuscript is well-written and figures are clearly presented. It should be noted that the phenomena reported here is a direct extension of a broader study of other fluorescent protein fusions previously reported by the same group (and has been been referenced). Major queries: The authors state that the median fluorescent intensities if Fig 1 “reveals yFusionRed was significantly dimmer than yemRFP … ymScarlet displayed the strongest fluorescent signal”. As written, this implies the median fluorescence intensity provides a measure of the relative brightness of individual fluorophores. However, without quantification of the amount of protein expressed this difference in median fluorescence could simply reflect differences in total fluorophore abundance. We are not familiar with yeast transfection methods - but certainly in mammalian transfection experiments cells will invariably have a massive (many fold) variation in expression levels within populations and between different constructs including a notable population of cells that have no expression. If this is the case in yeast, then the interpretation of difference in brightness is not sufficiently supported by the data. This point needs clarification. Following from the above point, it is difficult to ascertain whether the differences in expression, toxicity and aggregate extents of the various fluorescent protein tagged Htt constructs (Fig 2) arises from the same issues. To us this would be a more likely (and simpler) explanation than what the authors explain as the protein constructs having differences in inherent toxicity (molecule per molecule). Further clarification of this issue is required. The level of reproducibility should be indicated by including at least 3 independent replicates for the dot blots and growth assays (in Fig 2). Also, the dot blots should be quantified with the appropriate statistical methods. In Fig 1D, the authors report a significant difference in the median fluorescent intensities using a Student’s t-test to compare only two of the RFPs examined. It is suggested that an ANOVA would be more appropriate because there are more than two groups of interest. Based on the data provided, our ANOVA reports a higher degree of statistical significance for the comparison currently reported (yemRFP v ymScarlet, **) and also supports a significant difference between ymFusionRed and ymScarlet (***). Minor suggestions: This sentence in the abstract has an unclear meaning as it implies ymScarlet is inherently affected by polyQ: “We found that unlike yemRFP and yFusionRed, the synthetically engineered ymScarlet displayed severe polyQ toxicity and aggregation similar to what is observed for green FP variants.” Thus the sentence should be revised. Additional details for the Dot blot method (secondary antibody for Pkt-1, dilutions) would enhance reproducibility Include dimension for scale bar in Figure 2D 