The authors describe a tool that allows users to create co-authorship network diagrams within the Cytoscape application. This tool simplifies the network production process into as few as two steps: users can enter a PubMed query and then click the button. A co-authorship network is generated automatically and displayed in Cytoscape; users can then use features available within Cytoscape to carry out additional tasks, such as adjusting visual properties and measuring topological measures of network structure. The system also supports searches to Scopus and Web of Science (via InCites). The authors illustrate the systems design and functions, describe how to use it, and present a use case in which they use the tool to replicate a search carried out in a study by Hughes et al . In so doing they highlight several challenges that may occur when working with large co-authorship networks. The authors contend that co-authorship network visualization can be useful for understanding collaborative research networks or for communicating the extent of collaboration and publication productivity among a group of researchers. In this paper the authors do not conceive of a method to evaluate their app, for example to assess satisfaction with the app among system users, or to see whether system users are able to integrate the app into meaningful workflows. The authors report that they plan to continue developing the app, for example, by extending it so that it can display data from Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn. The availability of the software is a welcome addition to existing tools for co-authorship network production. Its automated features and relatively seamless integration into Cytoscape will (we expect) make it an appealing option for analysts; to the extent possible it takes care of tedious steps that analysts may be accustomed to carrying out manually. We have identified several minor points for the authors to take into consideration. First, in the sixth paragraph of the Database evaluation and implementation section, the authors mention that E-utilities queries are limited to several hundred characters. While this may be the case for standard E-utilities queries, it is possible by using an HTTP Post call to make significantly longer queries. From Sayers E. The E-Utilities In-Depth: Parameters, Syntax, and More, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK25499/ : For very long queries (more than several hundred characters long), consider using an HTTP POST call. In the version of the Social Network that was current as of the time of this review, one of us (M.B.) attempted a query containing more than 1,000 characters and it was successful. In any case we would like to request clarification, as it appears that the current version of the system may be capable of longer queries, possibly by doing an HTTP Post request. On a related note, later in the sixth paragraph of the Database evaluation and implementation section, the authors state that There is also a limit on the amount of data that can be retrieved at one time from eUtils. NCBI recommends that no more than 500 publications be retrieved from a single eUtils query. The citation given is http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK25498/ . However, this citation does not directly support this assertion. It is true, as the authors also point out, that requests should be limited to a maximum of three per second. Additionally, large jobs are to be limited to nights and weekends Eastern time ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK25497/ ). However, if there is a stated recommendation that no more than 500 publications be retrieved from a single eUtils query, we request that the authors identify a different source in which this is indicated in writing. In the fourth paragraph of the Database evaluation and implementation section the authors mention that Scopus and Web of Science APIs require paid subscriptions. It is our understanding that Web of Science has an API that is free to subscribers, in addition to a paid API with more data fields. We would like clarification on whether the authors were referring to the API that is free to subscribers. In the second paragraph of the Results and discussion section the authors state, We created the co-publication network by entering the researchers name (last name first initial, as expected by PubMed) and clicking on the search button. Due to the problem of ambiguous names in PubMed, it should be noted that this approach, without an attempt at name disambiguation, may result in many false drops, leading to invalid networks. In the third paragraph of the Methods and implementation section the authors mention that the user panel includes a co-publication network summary panel. Later in this paragraph they mention charts that summarize the total number of publications and citations by location can be viewed by clicking on links in the panel that navigate to summary charts created with the Google Chart API. We have thus far been unable to locate the network summary panel or the links to the charts, so further detail would be helpful here to describe the circumstances under which these features may be used, and/or how to activate and find them. We also have some minor editorial suggestions. First, we wanted to point out that networks is far more common in the literature than networks, so the authors may wish to switch to this term if desired. Second, in the third paragraph of the Methods and Implementation section the authors point out that Because InCites networks contain institutional affiliations for all the authors of a given publication, they have richer summaries. It may also be worth pointing out here that Scopus does this as well. Third, the sixth paragraph of the Database evaluation and implementation section contains a broken link ( http://baderlab.org/Software/SocialNetworkApp#PubMed ). We applaud the authors for making this app available for use within a freely available tool that has an active user base and community of users, and are hopeful that the authors will continue with active development of this tool, so that they may be responsive to user suggestions that may further improve the user experience and integration into workflows.