This modest research project is on a topical and critical issue for many in a wide range of developing countries, effecting not only the developmental trajectory of individual children themselves but also their potential future contributions to their societies. The paper is clearly written and very readable throughout. The Method section is clear and replicable. Themes from qualitative data analysis are succintly expressed in the Results. The Introduction emphasizes the mother's primary responsibility for care/feeding of children and identifying maternal KAPs in respect to child malnourishment. Not downplaying this, but there are also other broader system factors (determinants) that often influence mothers' health/capacity to provide nourishment for small children, e.g., work/life balance for the mother--does she, by necessity, have to leave the infant in care of others while working during the day?, food security? quality and quantity of good food for the mother's to underpin quality breastfeeding, economic factors impinging on access to good food for the mother etc. Some of these are alluded to in the results under later themes. There appears to have been little in the FGD process to prompt for understandings of these broader social/economic/cultural variables role in malnourishment. Some allusion to these does come up in the Discussion section but study would have been stronger if these addressed directly via FGD data collection phase. KAP studies typically produce recommendations for strengthening individual's knowledge, behaviour, practices etc via health education, literacy interventions, decontextualised from important broader social/economic, cultural structural variables outside any one individual's capacity to change and that require different intervention approaches. A broader health development/social determinants - driven approach may be needed rather than focusing on individuals skills knowledge etc. Notwithstanding the above still a useful, albeit modest, study on this important topic. 