The manuscript entitled “Using sheep genomes from diverse U.S. breeds to identify missense variants in genes affecting fecundity” provides an informative overview of a publicly searchable DNA sequence resource for U.S. sheep that the authors have generated. The manuscript is well written. The manuscript is largely descriptive in nature but does include a proof of principal type study to highlight the potential usefulness of this dataset. The study is appropriately designed and technically sound. Most of the conclusions drawn are adequately supported by the results. Where the authors have not identified phenotypic effects of amino acid changes they have acknowledged that this study does lack power to make definitive statements. A few details could do with further detail/clarification/some modification: In the last paragraph on page 4 where the manuscript states “when the accuracy of the WGS genotypes exceeded 97%”…… Please explain why 97% was chosen as the threshold. Page 5 under heading Identifying protein variants encoded by GDF9, BMP15, and BMPR1B: the methods describe haplotype phasing, however, it is unclear as to how many of the 96 sheep were able to be phased and used in analysis. It is therefore difficult to determine the validity of this method. The methods or corresponding results section should be expanded to include this information. Page 5 Methods section under heading Statistical analysis of litter size in daughters of carrier rams: Please include information of how many rams had daughter lambing records for each breed and each of the variants identified Page 6 The authors should include some discussion/information about the inclusion of animals that had the lowest concordances with other genotyping platforms, particularly the animals with ~17X coverage and a concordance of ~97%. In some research facilities this (and some of the other animals with greater than 10X coverage and less than 99% concordance) would be treated as suspect and excluded, or further analysis undertaken - if the latter is the case, please include the further analysis. Page 7 the sentence “Alleles encoding the M371 residue…” refers to Table 2, however this residue is not referred to in Table 2. Please correct. Page 7 “We predict that variant residues in highly conserved protein domains are more likely to affect ovulation rate and littler size”. While this sentence could be true, it is also possible that protein domains are highly conserved for functions other than ovulation rate and litter size. Page 12 There is insufficient data to really make the statement “Thus some substitutions at this position may cause loss of function in some mammals but it appears as though Q67 may not be one of them”. Given that the phenotypes around ovarian failure in sheep are likely not well recorded given the culling of sheep relatively early in life. 