The new title usefully resets the scope of the present work. Although the origin of the project remains the hunt for an electrophysiological correlate of qualia and the discussion retains such aspect, the present version of the research report settles on a more modest, but still quite bold, interpretation of the ERP results. Hopefully, the readers of the report will acknowledge the data and their statistical analyses, and will take the authors speculations about qualia and about direct brain-to-brain communication as possible although not necessary explanations. Since direct brain-to-brain communication is quite close to parapsychology, and especially to extra-sensory perception (ESP), the topic calls for an extra amount of skepticism. It is unfortunate that the authors chose to move the data analysis window from 600-900 ms in the first version to 650-950 ms post stimulus onset in the present version, although not consistently so since the effect of belief still uses the 600-900 ms range. The change in analysis interval seems related to explorations aimed at improving the statistical significance of the data, which would be a questionable scientific practice. I will therefore assume that the a priori specification of the interval of interest, presumably not guided by inspection of the data, is the 600-900 ms range. In the present version of the report, the authors substituted two separate ANOVAs to their original Sameness x Belief 2X2 design. In the present version, the analysis for the Belief effect, also referred to as the social cognition effect, remains the same as in the 2x2 design, and the Concordance effect, except for the 50 ms shift in the data interval, is the same as the interaction in the previous 2x2 design. Had the analysis remained 2x2 but with Concordance as a main effect, then the Concordance x Belief interaction would have been the Sameness main effect of the earlier 2x2 analysis. Sticking to the a priori selected 600-900 ms interval allows discussing the interaction that is missing in the present revision. The authors explanation that averaging over two conditions for each of the separate ANOVAs (e.g. over the two Belief conditions for each Concordance condition for the ANOVA on the Concordance effect) should improve the signal-to-noise ratio is an oversight (except for the graphs) for statistical analysis since the 2x2 ANOVA already achieved that effect (averaging the two amplitude values of each subject is equivalent to computing the amplitude of the common averaged waveform, with very mild modulation by unequal number of stimuli in the two conditions pooled together). The reasoning leading from considerations of qualia to the analysis of ERP amplitude in the time interval of the P600 appears extremely opaque. If, for instance, the specific subjective experience of blue in one person was to be shared through the modulation of EEG signals, this modulation would need to differ from that of the subjective experience of green. Since each qualia would need its own signature, measuring the P600 amplitude can hardly reflect the information. With the shift in emphasis from qualia to direct brain-to-brain communication, similar problems remain undiscussed: What would be the contents of that direct brain-to-brain communication? Is the effect rich enough to convey a reasonably large variety of contents? The possibility that the ERP effects index direct brain-to-brain communication is definitely worth reporting. Before accepting the conclusion as quite likely, however, the readers should await elimination of alternate, more mundane, explanations. In the present revision, the authors acknowledge the possibility that subtle cues would be transmitted from one participant to the other in reaction to some emotional stimuli, but argue that the time required for one participants brain to process the information and emit a bodily response plus the time required by the partner to perceive and process that response is inconsistent with the time of onset of the observed ERP difference. There are other possibilities however that will need to be ruled out experimentally for the direct brain-to-brain interpretation to hold. The subconscious perception, in the DBs condition, that the partner reacts emotionally (perhaps expressed by a contraction of the hand) when the currently seen picture does not justify it could alert the participant for extra processing of the sequence of stimuli. This, however, does not have to be a strict stimulus by stimulus effect and could well affect the processing of upcoming stimuli. For the SBd condition, the other member of the non-concordant condition, this alternate explanation is, however, not so obvious to formulate. The lack of condition differences among SBs, SBd and DBs, reported in my comments on the previous version does not support the alternate interpretation formulated here, although only SBs is expected to differ from the other two in the context of a concordance effect. To further question the merit of the alternate hypothesis, there is interest in the interaction between the two dimensions analyzed in the present version. This is the Sameness effect in the earlier report, which was significant or marginally so in the parasagittal (p=.07) and lateral (p=.04) electrode sets. It is thus conceivable that the Concordance effect and its interaction with Belief would indicate that the Concordance effect is more important (perhaps only present) for one of the four test conditions. It becomes relevant to assess whether the interaction suggests that the concordance effect would indeed be stronger for DBs compared to SBs than for DBd compared to SDd. If the effect was essentially that of DBs differing from the remaining three conditions, a Belief effect should also be expected. No Belief effect was reported in Table 2 of the previous version, but Table 3 documents significant differences of DBd with both of DBs (a Belief effect) and SBd (a Sameness effect). How would the concordance effect be re-interpreted if it was present only for the believe-different conditions (seen in Table 3 of previous version) but not for the believe-same conditions (i.e. SBs vs DBs)? Other forms of alternate interpretations remain possible. For instance, the SBd condition could induce the subconscious perception that the partner is moved similar to oneself, leading to the suspicion that the stimuli, although different, would be matched for emotional contents. This could also add the extra processing of the remaining stimuli in the block. The statement in the abstract that the participants had no way to detect inconsistence is premature since it relies essentially on each participant not seeing the stimulus presented to the partner. I agree however that there was no obvious way by which the information about inconsistency (or perhaps about consistency) could be conveyed by visual, auditory or tactile cues; direct brain-to-brain communication remains a possibility, although one requiring the exclusion of simpler alternatives. Later experimentations should therefore concentrate on eliminating the possibility that response cues (of perceptual-emotional origin) modulate the processing of later stimuli, by adding the dimension that not only the stimuli but also the partners reactions are monitored in some of the conditions. The direct brain-to-brain hypothesis does not require that the partners should see or could hear noises from each other, although it may be speculated that being aware of the presence of the other person would be required. Fitting the participants with ear plugs and with eye screens preventing lateral visual perception should retain the impression of the presence of the other while blocking most signs of emotional reaction (floor vibration would not be excluded). Given the structure of publication in F1000Research, it would not be required that the authors amend the current version for the readers to become aware that simpler alternate explanations must be excluded before accepting the ESP interpretation. This being said, a number of more minor points are worth addressing. Contents: The possibility of lateral eye movements toward the partner is documented in the revised version by plotting the ERPs separately for participants on the left and on the right. By visual superposition of the graphs for F7 and F8 in Figure 5 A and B, there are hints for more positivity (in both conditions painted) on the side of the partner, which is the expected pattern of eye movement contamination, considering that the cornea is positive relative to the retina. Page 4, column 2, The 32 subjects of the 16 pairs underwent I find the simplification hardly acceptable, since the earlier version of the report and the accompanying data file provide evidence that there were only 14 intact pairs (13 d.f. in the correlations tests reported in my earlier comment). It would have been far better to describe how many dyads were tested and to explain on what grounds subjects were excluded. Opinion: In the abstract, "no way to see the stimulus their partner was presented with, and thus no way to detect inconsistence" is currently an over optimistic statement. In the "Amendments from version 1" box, the authors mention averaging the consistent and the inconsistent conditions over the two believe conditions, partly to increase signal-to-noise. This is not at all an argument for not analysing belief and consistency effects in the same ANOVA, since the amplitude of an average is the same as the average of the amplitudes when there is an equal number of individual sweeps in the two conditions (and very nearly so for comparatively large numbers of sweeps). Clerical: In the abstract the word is split between two lines without hyphenation. Page 4, column 2, line 8: "if, and only if, that there is no way" In the Data Acquisition paragraph, only 26 of the 28 channels are listed, FP1 and FP2 present in the figures are missing here. Page 11, 2nd paragraph, is missing in Indeed, this were the case, one would have . Page 14, first paragraph, is missing in to verify the absence errors.