In the present article Liza Meutia Sari et al . examined the effect of areca nut extract on apoptosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines, HSC-2 and HSC-3 cells. They show that areca nut extract induced apoptosis in these cells by PI and Annexin-V staining followed by flow cytometry. They confirmed the results by detecting active caspase-3 activity following areca nut extract treatment. They conclude that areca nut extract induces apoptosis and caspase-3 activity in HSC-2 and HSC-3 cell. This is a limited but well-conducted study. However, there are several points that need to be addressed. Specific points: Chemosensitivity of cancer cells is determined by adding different concentrations of a drug. The authors should present the data regarding the effect of different concentrations of areca nut extract on cell viability, when they determined the IC 50 of HSC-2 and HSC-3 cells. According to Abstract and Methods, the authors carried out statistical analysis of their data. They should indicate which data are statistically significantly different in each graph. Figure 1B, 2B, 3B, and 4B: The chart legends should be "Areca nut" but not its concentrations. The concentrations should be written in Figure legends. Figure 1B, Top: 24 and 48 should be 24 h and 48 h, respectively. Figure 1B (right panel): It appears that many apoptotic cells (50%) are detected and only less that 40% of cells are viable in control at 48 h, raising a question about the reliability of the results. The authors should clarify this point. Figure 2A and 2B (left panel): While more than 80% of cells are viable in control at 48 h, many apoptotic cells (60%) are detected and only 25% of cells are viable in control at 24 h, raising a question about the reliability of the results. The authors should clarify this point. Figure 3B and 4B: By changing M1 and M2 to caspase-3 (-) and caspase-3 (+), respectively, readers will be able to understand the results more easily. Discussion page 10, the middle of 1st para: The authors mentioned "the percentage of HSC-2 cells undergoing apoptosis is high than HSC-3 cells. This result is possibly because there is a difference of cell sensitivity againt areca nut extract". However, HSC-2 cells were treated with a higher concentration (629.5 ug/ml) of areca nut extract than HSC-3 cells (164.05 ug/ml). Because the IC50 of HSC-2 cells is higher than that of HSC-3 cells, HSC-3 cells appear to be more sensitive to areca nut extract than HSC-2 cells. This is confusing. The authors should clarify this point. 