Recent improvements in treatment strategies for Hepatitis C virus infected patients have been successful at reaching sustained virological responses yet did not prevent liver fibrosis and progression to hepatocellular carcinoma. The idea proposed in this paper that new treatments must be developed to achieve viral clearance while preventing disease progression although meritorious is not original and should be complemented with further understanding of mechanisms underlying hepatitis C disease progression in the presence of sustained virological response (i.e. absence/ or low level of viral replication). The authors stated that pitasvatin represents a novel candidate to treat HCV infection yet the rationale for selecting this statin, as the likely candidate is not clearly justified. The authors based their selection on data from a retrospective analysis demonstrating no significant difference in sustained virological response rate per protocol analysis between patients treated with PEG-IFN/ribavirin in the presence or absence of pitavastatin. Findings from a second prospective trial demonstrates the safety of pitavastatin in combination with Peg IFN plus ribavirin although the decrease in HCV RNA was only significant at 2 (4 and 12 weeks) of 6 evaluated time points of treatment. The third trial used pitavastin in combination with eicosapentaenoic acid and identified this combination therapy as predictive of sustained virological response in multifactorial analysis only after genetic variation in IL28B was excluded from these factors. Thus the authors could have presented a better rationale for the selection of this statin. An additional point of discussion that should have been included in this paper would have been the evidence that statin use decreased progression to liver fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma yet this effect was independent of having attained a sustained virological response. These findings raised the possibility that the statins-mediated delay in liver fibrosis are related to their immunomodulatory rather than their antiviral effects. This assumption is supported by findings demonstrating little or no effect of statins use on HCV replication.