 Overall comment: This paper looks for the association between altitude and abdominal obesity. Although the idea is not novel, extra reports using existing data can help to understand better this. I would expect more details regarding the variables (exposure and outcome) used in the analysis. Moreover, any other kind of models, not that using only three categories for altitude would be more relevant, or verifying if the association is similar for overweight and obesity. This analysis can be improved by looking extra ways to see the association more than the traditional form to check that, for example, using linear regression if possible or polynomic models (quadratic at least). Major concerns: Abstract: Please change it accordingly to comments below. Introduction: Obesity has different indicators and in the reference is used similarly for BMI (overall obesity), waist circumference (abdominal obesity), etc. Please be careful and consistent with words used. Some longitudinal studies have been published showing the association of interest and they have not been considered here (e.g. PMID: 29472520 1 ). What is the novelty in this paper? Is it altitude? Apparently not as shown in the longitudinal paper... is it the rurality? Usually rural areas are in high altitudes. Is waist circumference an easy measure to do? Is it routinely done? How the usefulness of waist circumference in high altitudes is evaluated in this paper? I think that is no part of this study as pointed out in the last part of the first paragraph. Any reference for the last sentence of the second paragraph? Third paragraph: is the risk of obesity decreasing due to altitude? The reference is a cross sectional study, so is it possible to talk about risk? Methods: Study design: why this study is multicentric? How many centers were included? Please explain. If the ENAHO is conducted yearly, why to use the 2013 ENAHO? Why not to use the last one available? Please explain how the sampling was done? Stratified by what? How many stages does the sampling have? Was any criterion related to time living in high altitude (e.g. at least 6 months living in the city/area)? Are 30 days enough to see the potential impact of altitude on health? Why households with 10 or more inhabitants were excluded? Any explanation? What proportion of households in Peru has 10 dwellers or more? Are these decisions biasing results? How altitude was measured? Was GPS used for this? Only a simple calculation of the altitude of the city was used? Please explain. Usually, 2500 meters is used as the cutoff and not 3000... Since this variable is the main exposure, details should be given to understand if any misclassification could be introduced... Only those aged 20 years and more were included in the analysis? How about those between 18 to 20 years or those younger? How the rural index was built? Explain please... Any reference helping to understand this? I am pretty sure the ENAHO stratifies the sample by urban/rural settings... was not the case this time? Categorization of BMI is presented in different way compared to how it was analyzed... please be consistent in definitions used “We assessed bivariate association using...” Association of what? Do you mean correlation between definitions of abdominal obesity? What was the gold standard? “Thus, we used a log-binomial...” Why education level or socioeconomic status were not confounders? As they are associated with obesity and people in high altitude settings, mainly rural, tend to have low SES and low education... should be they confounders? I know these variables are available in the ENAHO survey... why were they excluded? Ethic statement: where the dataset is available... add the link and how to get the data... I know a dataset has been added using Figshare, but that it not all the info available in the ENAHO dataset. Results: What do you mean for “703 different locations”? This part is not explained in the Methods section. Were they the areas with altitude information? Education level and socioeconomic status should be included in the info as they are available in the ENAHO dataset. Waist to height ratio (definition) should be included since the methods section. Was obesity prevalence standardized by age? Authors always said that the prevalence of obesity was lower in high altitude, but that is only the crude estimate... at least age standardization (if possible by sex also) must be conducted to say something like that. “... we found that using the ATP III cutoff resulted in a stronger correlation with obesity”... what kind of obesity? Defined by BMI? By WC? By WtHr? Please use appropriate graphs to see the inverted-u shape relationship... three points are not enough... use appropriate linear regression models? Or used more categories in the exposure variable... for example, an increase every 500 meters... Would be good to know if stratification variables were effect modifiers? What was the test used for this? Although this was defined a priori, it would be good to have these estimates... Discussion: I would suggest discussing about the relevance of this paper in the context of other papers (mainly those longitudinal). What is the relevance of the findings? This is not clear as apparently the discussion is used only to compare results with other studies. I would also suggest to tone down some of the sentences as this is only a cross sectional study and not better analysis has been done to improve the understanding of the association between altitude and obesity prevalence. Minor concerns: Correct grammar spelling. Paper should be reviewed by an English native speaker. 