The manuscript, "The application of multi-criteria decision analysis to inform in resource allocation" is an exploration of current attributes for MCDA in rare diseases through a targeted literature review and suggested MCDA framework specific to rare disease. The study found the five most frequently mentioned attributes were disease severity, unmet need, comparative effectiveness/efficacy, quality of evidence, and safety tolerability. The study then plots per patient costs against total drug score and disease severity to demonstrate the wide range in costs. Overall comments: This is a nice contribution and needed for the field to move forward with adopting MCDA. I agree the use of MCDA is an add-on to most HTA processes. However, I believe you can expand on some areas and I have a two main suggestions for consideration: 1) Your work is mainly focused on the performance metrics of orphan drugs that are based on literature-derived criteria. For example, your discussion comment, "Defining the criteria at the outset is crucial to ensure that overlap between criteria are avoided." This is quite key to informing MCDA scoring/frameworks and flows directly into measurement and weighting of the criteria. On measurement, instead of simply listing this as a limitation can you provide any suggestions to future researchers on how to define the levels within criteria a priori instead of depending on past literature? Is it worth identifying criteria through engaging with patients, providers, etc. on criteria that may not be driven by regulatory approval? Meaning is there value in developing (and eventually weighting) criteria using ex ante preferences? This could aid in evidence generation, societal preference alignment, etc. Maybe that was the point you were making but didn't seem to be clear to me. 2) Related to 1), importance/weighting is quite complicated and should have it's own dedicated paragraph. Not only does an overall MCDA depend on perspective as you note in the Discussion, certain criteria may depend on perspective, i.e., clinical benefits are largely accrued by patients but cost is accrued by health systems. So it may be wise to dig in a bit more here with a separate paragraph noting these challenges. Weighting itself also comes with multiple methods that vary in bias. 