Mutations in the APC gene have been established as a cause of classical FAP. However, in a small subset (~20%) of affected families, mutations in the coding regions of APC or other polyposis-associated genes such as MUTYH cannot be identified. In this study, the authors perform whole-genome sequencing on one such subject and identify a heterozygous 11kb deletion in the exon 1B / promoter region of APC. The three non-synonymous mutations identified in APC and MUTYH were not felt to be causal mutations. The authors confirmed the presence of the heterozygous deletion through differential PCR and Sanger sequencing. The authors then went on to investigate nine APC mutation-negative kindreds which were previously found to have exon 1B / promoter deletions using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification assays. In all nine kindreds, the same coordinates of the 11kb deletion were inferred. The study design, presentation of results and conclusions are straightforward. The authors find an APC promoter deletion through whole-genome sequencing and establish the deletion coordinates through Sanger sequencing. Ideally, further investigation of a number of affecteds and unaffected members in the kindred of this study would provide convincing evidence that this 11kb deletion is associated with the affected state. However, considered in conjunction with the results from Lin et al. and Snow et al. , this study shows that whole-genome sequencing is a suitable method for the detection of non-coding mutations in APC -mutation negative FAP individuals. This builds upon mounting evidence that associates APC promoter deletions with FAP. Interestingly, these studies all show that affected members of eleven FAP kindreds in the United States share the promoter deletion with identical coordinates. It might be worth noting in the discussion that the original Snow et al paper using MPLA identified a deletion that was thought to be much larger (33kb) but that approach did not map the exact coordinates. Two minor points: (1) In the Results section (p 6 left column second paragraph), it is stated: these primers produce a product of approximately 1kb for individuals with no deletion. More accurately, the 1kb product is produced from chromosomes without the deletion (as the authors later state); the 1kb product is also produced in all individuals with the deletion (Fig. 1). (2) In the discussion, the authors discuss potential difficulties in using targeted capture techniques to discover or assess larger deletions such as the one described. However, we successfully used such a targeted capture assay to discover the promoter deletion described in our study. The analysis methods for detecting individual reads and read pairs that straddle the deletion are applicable and to targeted sequencing strategies.