The paper An analysis on the entity annotations in biological corpora is a review of several corpora which are available to the research community and which consist of textual data with annotation. These annotations are either on an entity level or with relations between entities. The author makes very clear what this paper is about, which corpora are discussed and where the border is drawn to resources not discussed here. The comprehensive list of corpora is enriched with citation counts to make clear which corpora are already commonly used and which might be under-explored by the community. She makes clear that she would like to motivate researches to make use of these corpora as well. In general, I think that this paper is a very valuable review of resources available to the community. The author does not define strictly what the motivation for this paper is, what the audience should be and who can specifically benefit from it. I could think of at least two scenarios: 1. A researcher would like to improve or develop a method for a specific domain/entity class (like drug-drug-interaction or recognition of chemical names, for instance). Then the author can get an overview of available corpora and be quite sure that she or he does not miss a corpus of the specific domain when the class is mentioned in this review. 2. A researcher would like to evaluate a method and needs resources, he or she does not necessarily care so much about the specific domain and can select from the variety of discussed resources in this review. I propose that such or similar motivations are added to the introduction. Title : I am not sure if a corpus can be biological or dealing with classes from the bio(medical) domain. Abstract : Should indicate for whom this review might be of value. Some examples of cases for use would be great, I think. Introduction : A schema does not consist of entities only, but also of entity classes. Maybe it would be interesting to discuss the issue of having a bias in the annotation towards the automatic tool when annotations are only validated. Such corpora tends corpora tend or such corpus tends I show the impact of each corpora each corpus The author cites the paper on the 5 reviews commonly used to study PPI. Are there no other such reviews? Corpora and semantic types: List of corpora: I also did not include corpora which have only text span annotations not related to a particular semantic entity I do not understand that. Several of the corpora the author is discussing do not have links to database or ontology IDs. This should be made clear. (examples are the BC2 GM corpus, the SCAI corpus, I think AZDC as well.) Abner is at least evaluated on BioCreative data as well. I am not sure it has only been trained on GENIA. Semantic Analysis of Corpora I only consider those annotations which are meaningful enough to be associated with one of the pre-defined semantic types under consideration I think that formulation could be improved to make clearer what meaningful means. Comparison and Discussion On the other hand without On the one hand different number of documents numbers ? relationships was - relationships were corpora which contains - contain 