Although this article’s topic is interesting, I found that its contents were confusing and inaccessible. I also have some reservations regarding the methods. The abstract is misleading. The author states in the abstract: “It was found that promoter methylation was affected by miRNA targeting.“ I find this statement very misleading, as the author has not shown that miRNA targeting has an effect on promoter methylation. What the authors’ results do suggest is that the promoters of genes that are predicted to be miRNA targets tend to be hypomethylated compared to promoters of genes predicted not to be miRNA targets. Although this correlation is an interesting observation in itself (also previously made by Su et al ., 2011 ), the author provides no compelling evidence for miRNA targeting and regulation being the cause of (or even influence) the genes’ reduced promoter methylation. Specifically, the author neither demonstrates that loss (or increase) of miRNA regulation in general nor that loss (or increase) of regulation by specific miRNAs affects promoter methylation status. Instead, the author’s results indicate that predicted miRNA regulation apparently can have both a positive and negative correlation with promoter methylation status (Table 5 and Table 7). Consequently, the author’s current results only support that predicted miRNA targets tend to have hypomethylated promoters in the specific cell lines used in the author’s study. There are no figures to illustrate analyses, show data trends, and visualize correlations. The author consistently presents his results as correlation coefficients and p-values. These values are important, but also hide important aspects of the data, such as the magnitude of a significant difference and the trend of or the number of observations contributing to a significant correlation. To make his results more accessible, the author should at least create a figure that compares the distributions of promoter methylation for miRNA target and non-target genes (Table 3). Moreover, some of the author’s analyses, such as the correlations of p-values in Tables 5-6, are fairly complex. A figure that shows the underlying data and illustrates the different steps in the analyses would make the results more accessible. The analyses apparently ignore miRNA expression. Presumably, a miRNA has to be expressed to have a role in gene regulation – whether that role is post-transcriptional or otherwise. It is unclear, however, whether the author takes miRNA expression into account in his analyses. For example, in Table 1, the author has apparently included all 1921 mature miRNAs from miRBase 18.0 in his analyses, but I doubt that all of these are expressed in all the 271 cell lines. One reason for including all miRNAs may be that the author has no data on which miRNAs are expressed in the different cell lines. Nevertheless, as many of the miRNAs will likely not be expressed in a given cell line, a large fraction of the 520,591 combinations tested appear irrelevant. Similarly, for the analyses presented in Table 5, where the author does have data on the miRNAs that are expressed, the author provides no information on the miRNAs actually used in the analysis. Finally, in the last result section, the author specifically studies the miR-548 family, which has very low expression levels in the cells where it has been detected. The author seems to suggest that the predicted targets of the miR-548 family are especially likely to be hypo-methylated and concludes that “Regulation of target genes by miR-548 miRNAs, which were typically expressed at low levels are likely the result of miRNA-targeted-gene promoter hypomethylation.” The section also contains several confusing statements such as “Because […] genes with hypomethylated promoters are expressed, the fact that promoters of target genes of miR-548 miRNAs are hypomethylated may mean that, compared to genes that are targets of other miRNAs, target genes of miR-548 miRNAs are more sensitive to changes in miRNA expression. This could explain why promoters of target genes of non-expressed miR-548 mIRNAs are specifically hypomethylated.“ If, for arguments sake, miRNAs really affect promoter methylation, I still fail to understand why a lowly expressed miRNA such as miR-548 should have a stronger effect than other more highly expressed miRNAs, as the author seem to suggest. Instead, I believe that the miR-548 family appear to be significantly associated with hypomethylated promoters compared with other miRNAs because of a bias in the author’s analysis. Specifically, many of the members of the miR-548 family have identical seed sequences and will therefore be predicted to target the same genes (the number of unique 7mer seeds in the miR-548 family in miRBase 18.0 is 33), but the author does not seem to correct for this identical targeting in his ranking analyses (Table 9 and 10). Overall, the author should take into account both miRNA expression and similar or identical miRNA targeting in his analyses.