The article ‘Alternative miRNAs? Human sequences misidentified as plant miRNAs in plant studies and in human plasma’ by Kenneth W. Witwer addresses the recurring claim of plant xeno-microRNAs found in human plasma. Such xenomiRs are allegedly ingested and enriched in human; and this time Liu et al. claim evidence for cross kingdom RNAi via this route. Thus far, similar claims could not stand up against thorough validation as, for example, we (Bagci and Allmer, 2016 1 ) and Kenneth W. Witwer (Auerbach et al. 2016 2 ) have shown before. Here, Witwer has a closer look at the article ‘Plant miRNAs found in human circulating system provide evidence of cross kingdom RNAi’ by Liu et al. 2017 3 . Liu et al. 2017 claim that the plant miRNAs are not contamination, but only checked whether they contain sequencing adapters. Other sources of contamination were not considered. Additionally, Liu et al. 2017 reported to have used BLAST to check the plant miRNAs they found against the human genome without any similarities. Conversely, Witwer was able to find full-length identical alignments for these sequences in the human genome. For example, peu-MIR2910 is claimed by Liu et al to be conserved within comestible plants but a quick check on miRBase reveals that it is dead entry and not considered a miRNA anymore ( http://www.mirbase.org/cgi-bin/mirna_entry.pl?acc=MI0012633 ). Witwer correctly finds the mature sequence for this miRNA (UAGUUGGUGGAGCGAUUUGUC) in human while Liu et al. used the precursor sequence (UAGUUGGUGG AGCGAUUUGU CUGGUUAAUU CCGUUAACGA ACGAGACCUC AGCCUGCUA) for their search. I repeated the latter and found that the first 50 nucleotides are identical with several human RNAs (e.g.: NR_046235) which supports Witwer’s findings. It is of note, that PMRD is still not reachable and that the sequences I used were provided by Liu et al. in their commentary on Witwer’s article in biorxiv 4 . Witwer points out that mapping results were not normalized which is supported by the original manuscript by Liu et al. However, such normalization is of essence especially when the number of observations is very low (spurious even?). I fully support the conclusions Kenneth W. Witwer draws in this article. 