 1. Is the topic of the review discussed comprehensively in the context of the current literature? No Most writers would accept that the current literature reflects work published over the past 10 years. The majority of citations in this article are significantly older than this and largely relate to the field of dentistry rather than clinical medicine. I do not feel that the article reflects current practice, nor does it explore current controversies in the field. There is no mention of the Duke Criteria or the modified update for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Diagnosis is usually made without histological confirmation at the time of surgery, which is reflected in the Duke Major criteria. Most would agree that the pathological criteria of endocarditis are largely historical. In 2015 new imaging modalities were introduced into the ESC guideline to aid diagnosis including PET/SPECT, CT and imaging for distal embolic events. The article makes no reference to any imaging outside of TOE. Both the AHA and ESC would also recommend TTE rather than TOE as the first-line test for suspected disease. In terms of antibiotic prophylaxis, the author does highlight that this is a controversial area. However, it might be helpful to reference current UK guidelines that do not recommend any prophylaxis, which has been the case since 2008. Potentially as a result of this, UK endocarditis rates are now rising. The article does not reference or highlight the shift in microbiology from Streptococcus to staphylococcus or why this might be. There is no mention of newer percutaneous valves and the signal regarding potential higher endocarditis rates. 2. Are all factual statements correct and adequately supported by citations? No There are frequent factual statements made throughout the article that are not referenced. These need to be addressed prior to publication. At present the article reads like an opinion piece. For example. “endocarditis site in 50% of cases” “12-15% of cases” “injecting drugs (up to 30% in some cases)” “oral microorganisms (especially Streptococcus app.) are seldom found in bacterial endocarditis” ‘Statistically 5-20% of endocarditis has negative emoculture” 3. Is the review written in accessible language? Partly There are a number of esoteric terms used in the article that are not commonly used and make it challenging to read: Emoculture Anatomopathological Odontostomatologic Asthenia Anamnesis Hyperpyretis The structure of some sentences is confusing: “All age groups may be potentially affected but with different clinical picture between young immunosupressed subjects and older than 65 years have an incidence of about 9 times that of subjects with lower age” “In the elderly population, in the lungs, the presence of Streptococcus bovis, a microorganism associated with polyps and colon carcinoma, or enterococci (Group D streptococci as Enterococcus faecalis) is commonly found in the gastrointestinal tract and can cause subacute infections after gastrointestinal clinical procedures” “Despite the possibility of performing microbiological and instrumental elective investigations and the wide availability of drugs capable of resolving pathological conditions, IE is still associated with a high mortality rate” “It’s application in everyday practice is based on other than efficacy tests: simply empirical or traditional tests” “which is attempted to prevent antibiotic-prophylaxis during dental procedures” 4. Are the conclusions drawn appropriate in the context of the current research literature? Partly No mention of more current risk factors for endocarditis: dialysis, immunosuppression, implantable cardiac devices or indwelling venous catheters. Agreed that mortality remains high. However, might be nice to discuss why this could be? The reference to MOF in the second paragraph of the conclusion is rather confusing. It has not been mentioned in the article, the acronym is not described and I am unsure that mortality in endocarditis is “usually” due to it. Agreed that antibiotic prophylaxis remains controversial. The reference to diabetic patients at the end of the article comes out of the blue. Diabetes is a risk factor for endocarditis, but it is not highlighted anywhere else in the article. This needs to be introduced earlier. The throw-away statement regarding cigarette smoke and electronic cigarettes is also confusing. It bears no relation to the article and seems an odd thing to conclude what is quite a traditional article on endocarditis. Summary All factual statements need to be referenced, ideally with articles 10 years old to ensure they reflect the current literature. Clean up some sentences and try to move away from esoteric terms to make the article easier to read. The second and last paragraphs of the conclusion need to be tightened up. At present they do not bear any relation to the overall article. 