The authors underscored warning signs (WS) but the definition they used was different from the references 1 that they cited. Because of the different WS definitions, the enrolment criteria and exclusion criteria were not clear, which resulted in a non-homogeneous study population. They include both shock and non-shock patients, i.e. dengue with WS and severe dengue on the time of admission. So, the results might not be relevant. In addition, in Table 1 the results revealed that on day 1, the number of cases with compensated shock increased from 4 (day 1) to 7 (day 2) in the 5L group and reduced from 7 (day 1) to 6 (day 2) in the ≥5L group. The number of cases with hypotensive shock reduced from 7 (day 1) to 5 (day 2). Were the shock patients on day 1 and 2 the same patients or different ones? The same results on day 2: the number of cases with compensated shock increased from 3 (day 1) to 6 (day 2) and number of cases with hypotensive shock increased from 1 to 2 and in the 5L group. In the ≥5L group, compensated shock reduced from 8 (day 1) to 7 (day 2) and from 6 (day 1) to 3 (day 2) for hypotensive shock. Were the shock patients on day 1 and 2 the same patients or different ones? For the above results, even in the ≥5L group, the amount of fluid didn't seem very effective in maintaining hemodynamic stability. Still, there were more than 50% of cases with shock, or that developed shock (if not the same patients). Please clarify number of study cases, 41 (in the abstract) or 43 (in the results and Table 1). Because of different definitions, the number of patients with severe dengue increased, but by looking at the mean platelet count, mean HCT and mean AST/ALT, it seems that the majority of enrolled case were not severe. But in the more severe cases, this fluid amount could not prevent shock in at least 14 cases (33%) in this study. The following definitions in this study were different from standard: Warning signs (WS) that were not in the references: poor oral intake, dizziness, hypotension or shock, tachycardia during the afebrile phase, severe thrombocytopenia, associated diabetes, pregnancy or alcoholism, referral for admission from a peripheral health center and obese patients. Hypotension was considered when systolic blood pressure was 100 mmHg. Tachycardia defined compensated shock. Hypotensive shock = pulse pressure 20 mmHg or systolic BP 90 mmHg or feeble pulse or the patients was restless. Organ impairment was defined as: Transaminase elevation 3 times. CK elevation 3 times. Thrombocytopenia = platelet count, 150,000/cumm. 