I am grateful for the opportunity to review the manuscript presented to me. I hope that the comments in the review would be helpful in deciding whether to index the manuscript in your journal. I believe the paper is worth considering for indexing, however requires major revision. General comments Abstract: The abbreviation CPR should be explained the first time it is used in the text. Scores for the immediate theoretical exam were 58.6% immediately after the intervention vs 40% 30 days after the intervention – in my opinion better will be: Scores for the immediate theoretical exam were 58.6% immediately after the intervention vs 40% thirty days after the intervention. Inroduction: A few sentences of the introduction about the need and effectiveness of resuscitation in the study group are missing. Why the study was conducted specifically among medical students? It should be explained. Methodology: You used … students of Medicine at Pontificia Universidad Catlica of Ecuador … two times : in Participants and study setting section and Theoretical-practical course section – its more than enough. Mannequins and tools should be thoroughly described. I need much more information about your author's survey questionnaire. After 30 days, the theoretical and practical evaluation was carried out once again for each of the participants – in my opinion most of the available studies in the above scope analyse a longer period of time than 1 month. Whether pilot studies were carried out? What was the statistically significant? What was the ethical consideration? Results: … When conducting the post-hoc test through Scheffe… I did not see this information in the data analysis section. Only one Table presenting the data is insufficient. Discussion: … Basic Life Support (BLS) program and postgraduate (BLS and ACLS Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support) training… the abbreviations were already explained in the beginning of the article. … however, there are not many previous studies that indicate the behavior between 1 to 6 months … - we need to citations . Conclusion: Should be in 1-2 sentence. References: The record of citations should be standardised. In your references I see many lacks , eg. 15. Burkhardt JN, Glick JE, Terndrup TE: Effect of prior cardiopulmonary resuscitation knowledge on compression performance by hospital providers. West J Emerg Med. 2014; 15(4): 404–8. Vs. 7. Salgado Castillo MF: Data for EVALUATION OF THE RETENTION OF SKILLS IN ADVANCED CARDIOVASCULAR LIFE SUPPORT (ACLS), FOLLOWING A THEORETICAL-PRACTICAL INTERVENTION IN POSTGRADUATE PHYSICIAN STUDENTS OF CRITICAL AREAS. figshare. Dataset. 2019. I did not see similar studies form last 2-3 years. I recommend some new one 1 . 