This brief case study outlines an alternate surgical approach of surface arthroplasty for a young cerebral palsied patient who was severely disabled by hip pain and dislocation. While it is beneficial for clinicians to read about successful surgical interventions particularly for someone who is young and has difficult anatomy, the authors have been very sparring in their details about the case. As the patient had spastic triplegia, I am unclear as to which limb was spared from the statement " He had sparing of his upper left extremity of the hip " - does this mean his left arm or his left leg? Also it is difficult to understand how someone who has " limited and poor hip function " and " did not want to bear weight on his right leg " could " walk around with a Kay posture walker on a baseball field - which is usually quite large in area ." Some detail about how many levels of the spine were fused is required in the history. The authors should also comment on the patient's skeletal maturity as I would suspect that over the last four years the increase in long bone development and change in muscle mass may have exacerbated his hip joint position, symptoms and functionality. Was the patient skeletally mature when they performed the surface arthroplasty? The authors mentioned that when the spinal fusion was performed, " the hip was coming out of the socket " and continued to worsen after the spinal fusion, so perhaps they should have commented further on whether a spinal fusion is suitable for an immature cerebral palsied individual and on the effect a fusion may have on acetabular and femoral position. I am surprised that all the muscles in his right leg were 4/5, particularly the hip external rotators and the extensors (gluteus maximus). The adductor tendon tightness with the changed hip joint centre, as the hip was dislocated, would be difficult to assess. The authors are referred to Delp Maloney (1993) , who investigated changing hip joint centre and moment arms of the muscles around the hip, specifically for consideration in diplegic patients.