This study implements a historical cohort design to compare the effectiveness of dronedarone vs dofetilide with respect to arrhythmia recurrence and side effects within the first year of treatment using the University of Utah’s hospital pharmacy database. This study addresses an important topic as there is little empirical evidence comparing the real world effectiveness of dofetilide vs dronedarone. I believe that the paper would benefit, however, if a few methodological aspects of the study were described in greater detail: The authors mention that follow-up started at the time of drug-initiation (dofetilide or dronedarone). It would be helpful if the authors explicitly mentioned if this was the first initiation of these specific drugs for each subject, or if there was a washout period prior to the initiation of either dofetilide or dronedarone where subjects were required to have no pharmacy claim of either drug (new-user design)? It would be helpful if the authors explicitly defined in the Methods section what side effects and adverse events are being considered. The authors mention that they performed PS matched analyses with and without imposition of common support (i.e., trimming of the non-overlapping regions of the PS distributions). It is unclear why this is necessary. 1-1 PS matching should automatically restrict the analysis to individuals where there is common overlap as individuals with no common support would not be matched. It would be helpful if the authors explained why PS matched analyses with and without the common support region defined prior to matching would be expected to change the matched population and give different answers. The authors do a nice job of highlighting the small sample size of the study as a limitation in the analysis. I think that it would be important for the authors to also highlight the potential for unmeasured confounding in this study as well as residual confounding caused by the measured baseline covariates even after PS adjustment. Table 1 and Figure 1 show strong differences in baseline covariates and strong separation in PS distributions across treatment groups. This often implies strong differences in unmeasured factors as well. The potential for unmeasured confounding should at least be mentioned as a limitation in the Discussion. Even after PS adjustment, Supplemental Table 1 shows that there are still some strong differences in baseline covariates. None of these differences are reported as significant according to the P-value, but the P-value is highly affected by sample size and is not the best metric for assessing whether or not balance is achieved. When just looking at absolute mean differences in the baseline covariates, some of the differences do not improve after matching (e.g., Diabetes, CAD, HTN). Consequently, I think the potential for residual confounding should be mentioned as a limitation. 