This article by Deborah L. Grainger et al , clearly documents the validation of Rabbit anti-Human REDD-1 in a Western blot application. This data has further reinforced the quality of this already well established and cited commercial antibody by demonstrating specificity using RNAi technology and knock out cell lines. The paper has quite conclusively shown that Proteintech Rabbit anti-Human REDD-1, catalogue number 10638-1-AP, Lot #00019207 is an antibody that binds to a specific region of the human REDD-1 full length protein. However, I have the following comments regarding some potential questions this article may generate. Addressing these would mostly likely strengthen this antibody validation paper and allow the reader to better able to make an informed choice when selecting the right anti-REDD-1 antibody. Since the paper addresses only application in Western blot, could this be included in the title? Many tested applications are listed for this antibody, Catalogue No. 10638-1 in the datasheet including IHC, could the validation for this antibody be extended to include ICC? It would be interesting to see whether thapsigargin induced expression of REDD-1 in Western blot is corroborated by the same in ICC. Figure 2. REDD-1 expression in WT- is quite substantial visually. Would you expect this level of expression under physiological 02? Following on from point 3, REDD-1 is only expressed under certain environmental conditions, including hypoxia [reference 10, Ellisen LW et al, 2002], and the latter has been widely used to induce REDD-1 expression in other studies. Some clarification as to why HEK-293 cells cultured in 5%C02 is showing expression of REDD-1 is warranted and should be included in the discussion. Can you explain the choice of using HEK 293 cell line? Also, was there any reason why the other cell lines listed as positive controls in the datasheet wasn’t included? The probability (high or low) of this anti-REDD-1 (DDIT4 -DNA-Damage-Inducible Transcript 4) antibody cross reacting with REDD-2 protein (DDIT4L -DNA-Damage-Inducible Transcript 4-Like) should also discussed. Will there be any consideration for epitope mapping to be implemented in future lots? 