Thank you very much for asking me to review the present manuscript. This is, in summary, an interesting paper aimed to evaluate the effects of interventions preventing self-harm and suicide in children and adolescents in an overview of systematic reviews. The authors reported that (moderate certainty evidence) school-based interventions prevent suicidal ideation and attempts short term, and possibly with long term effects on suicide attempts. Overall, the effects of community-based interventions following suicide clusters and local suicide plans resulted uncertain, as are the benefits and harms of screening young people for suicide risk. In addition, the effects of most interventions targeting children and adolescents with known self-harm were uncertain. They added that (low certainty evidence) dialectical behavioural therapy and developmental group therapy are equally as effective on repetition of self-harm as enhanced treatment as usual. The authors may find as follows my main comments/suggestions: First, as the authors, throughout the Introduction section, correctly stated that self-harm and suicide are associated with relevant psychosocial impairment and result from underlying factors such as other mental health problems, exposure to traumatic events or other difficult circumstances in the young person’s environment, they might even mention that the emotional turmoil in the case of suicide survivors of patients died by suicide may last a long time, and in some cases, may end with their own suicide. Thus, together with self-harm and suicide, it is fundamental to understand the bereavement process after the suicide of a significant other to provide a proper care, reduce stigma, and improve the outcomes. In addition, specific biological factors such as prolactin and thyroid hormone levels may be dysregulated and significantly associated with self-harm and suicide attempts and even involved in a complex compensatory mechanism to correct reduced central serotonin activity. The assumption that prolactin and thyroid hormones may be associated or even predict a suicide attempt is of great importance given the availability of such data in everyday clinical practice. Physicians of any kind as well as mental health professionals should be aware of the importance to insert as much information possible in the assessment of suicide and self-harm risk. Thus, given the above mentioned information, the authors could include throughout the manuscript, some published papers regarding the mentioned topics (PMID: 24082246; 31091772; 28843902; 22748186; 12866334) 1 2 3 4 5 . In addition, why the authors decided to include all publications in English, Norwegian, Danish or Swedish rather than simply including only studies in English language is a matter of debate and needs to be specified. Moreover, the authors should immediately present and discuss, in the first lines of the Discussion section, their most relevant study findings. Conversely, they seem to focus with redundancy on the main aims/objectives of the paper which have been already presented elsewhere. Although the authors reported that the present analyses are based on secondary reporting and the interpretation of the review authors as well as that the present report included only reviews of studies where the population was children and young people with existing self-harm, the most relevant limitations/shortcomings of the present study need to be more carefully described for the general readership. Finally, what is the take-home message of this manuscript? While the authors stated that practice should be evaluated, and researchers should investigate harmful effects as well as beneficial effects of interventions, they failed, in my opinion, to provide some conclusive remarks about their findings. Here, some further details/information are needed. 