Thank you for providing me an opportunity for peer review. I have the following comments and I think major revision is required for the article. Abstract: The authors should not mention all details like history, lab findings and discussion in the abstract. I think the abstract should be concise like this: "Eosinophilic gastroenteritis (EGE) is an extremely rare inflammatory disorder with an estimated prevalence of 22-28/100 000. Steroids improve symptoms in 90% of cases but the recurrence rates are high, and patients are exposed to steroid-related side effects. We herein, present a case of EGE in an elderly patient who was successfully managed with dietary restriction. Dietary modification in patients with EGE is free of steroid-related side effects, and may be considered as initial therapy for EGE." Introduction: Add more in the introduction about EGE, discuss global scenarios and particular nation scenarios. The line “Eosinophilic gastroenteritis (EGE) is an extremely rare inflammatory disorder with an estimated prevalence of 22–28/100 000." has no citation. Citation is advised. Case presentation: Don’t mention the date (August 2018). Describe more about diarrhea: the number of episodes per day, and color. Was it associated with pain in the abdomen? Was there nocturnal diarrhea? Describe about vomiting. "family history of colonic disorders" - what does it mean? Colorectal ca or polyp? The authors are advised to mention it. "Physical examination was significant for dry oral mucosa and loss of skin turgor." Write like: "Physical examination was significant except for dry oral mucosa and loss of skin turgor. Investigations: Remove this line: "Lab findings were significant for a". Rewrite like: “on investigation hemoglobin was…”. Write down important findings in sentence. Make a table for the investigations that shows detailed parameters: - Parameters - Reference range, adults - On admission - After dietary restriction Infectious stool work-up was negative. Mention in detail what infectious work up was done. Keep the endoscopy and colonoscopy photo. Mention which site the biopsy was taken from - colon or esophagus? Figure of histopathology is a must and will give the most convincing evidence. Was endoscopy/biopsy done after dietary restriction? How can you presume that there was no inflammation going on after dietary restriction based on only improvement of clinical history? Follow up: How long was the patient followed up and after what time of dietary restriction did the patient show clinical improvement? Strengths, Limitations and Take Away Lessons: The authors are advised to remove this portion. Discussion: The discussion seems to be like the introduction and the authors are advised to include these paragraphs in the introduction section. The discussion should include how this case report is similar to or different from other reports. What is unique to this case report? What is unique in management? Discuss in detail. 