The case report describes a 22- year old patient who had acute viral Hepatitis E who presented with altered sensorium possibly hepatic encephalopathy, but there are several unexplained details which alter the diagnostic specificity: Why did the patient have generalized muscle rigidity? Clearly, he was intubated for poor sensorium and it is apparent from the clinical examination that he had no heart failure signs at presentation, with normal heart sounds and chest examination. Why are the authors mentioning SGPT on one hand and AST on the other? Surely it will be wiser to use AST and ALT, as is the norm. The authors write ‘platelet time (PT) 13 seconds (reference range, 11–14 seconds); and international normalized ratio (INR) 13 seconds (reference range, 0.9–1.2 seconds)’. There is no test called ‘platelet time’ I believe that they intend to write ‘Prothrombin time’. The INR is a ratio. It could not be 13 seconds with the reference range being 0.9-1.2. The authors write ‘platelet of 20110 9 , leukocytes 2710 9 ’ No units are mentioned. The sign and symptoms together with workups and labs were highly suggestive of myocarditis. The criteria for myocarditis need to be met. It is likely the patient was in sepsis. The levels of biomarkers like Troponin I and T is not mentioned. Also, the MB fraction of creatine kinase needs to be done in serial tests. Echocardiographic images would be required. The ECG supplied shows sinus tachycardia with secondary ST-T changes. The patient was treated accordingly an injection of Risek (40 mg once daily), 25% dextrose (as per needed), colomycin (2 million IU thrice daily) and moxifloxacin (400 mg once daily), acyclovir (500 mg thrice daily); syp duphalac (30 ml 6 hourly) was given nasogastrically; and patient was kept sedated with propofol. Please avoid use tradenames of drugs used in the treatment. The indication for acyclovir is unclear. When was the coronary angiogram done? Are images available? Was there a suspicion of acute coronary syndrome in this patient? 