Increased risk for cardiovascular disease is a significant cause of long term morbidity of SLE. In this small retrospective study the authors address one of the potential modifiable risk factors for CV disease in this population, hypertension. In this pilot study the authors focused on children and teens with SLE but no renal disease (or nephritis in remission) with prehypertension or stage 1 HTN who had been evaluated with an ABPM. Although the patient numbers are small, the study is strengthened by the use of the non-SLE control group. With regard to the methods, findings in the SLE patients were compared to a control group comprised of children undergoing ABPM for evaluation of prehypertension or stage 1 hypertension who did not have SLE (though other details regarding this group are not available). This group was reported to be age matched though it is noted that the mean age of this group was 12.4 years as compared to 14.6 for the SLE group. The mean BMI for the 2 groups was well matched. Unfortunately data for the non-SLE group was limited to information on the ABPM report which was limited to age, sex, height, weight (with BMI calculated from these data). Thus it was not possible to compare race or ethnic group of the control group to the SLE group which was 40% African American and 30% Hispanic. The authors found that the SLE patients demonstrated a higher prevalence of reduced dipping than the control group (90% vs 26% respectively). Additionally, 60% of SLE patients had nocturnal HTN as compared to 39% of the control group. Due to the small number of patients the authors were not able to demonstrate an association of findings on ABPM with clinical factors such as steroid exposure, disease activity, proteinuria, echocardiograms, etc. Of note all patients with nocturnal hypertension met historical criteria for nephritis even though not active at time of the study. It is possible that these SLE patients had other risk factors for hypertension not addressed here such as positive family history or elevated BMI. Perhaps the authors could comment on the latter point at least. These factors are important given the high prevalence of African American and Hispanic children in their SLE population. Data also showed that SLE patients had a statistically significant lower daytime systolic load as compared to controls while only 50% had elevated nighttime systolic loads and 60% had nocturnal hypertension. Thus it may be that the low daytime systolic load contributed to the finding of attenuated dipping in some of the SLE cohort. The authors performed various sensitivity analyses that involved using a lower threshold (90 th percentile) to define hypertension, use of 30% as cutoff for abnormal load, more stringent requirements for adequacy, and limited non-SLE group to females. These data are somewhat confusing and the authors could consider deleting this section. The study reported here highlights the need for scrutiny of BPs in SLE patients without active nephritis in whom mild elevations in the office might be attributed to white coat hypertension. Additionally the high prevalence of abnormalities of nocturnal pressures, often occurring in isolation, indicates that this method of evaluation (ABPM) is crucial in the evaluation of this population. These findings should be the basis for further study in a larger group of patients. The study has significant limitations as mentioned above but the findings are compelling and thus warrant reporting.