Carneiro et al. 2010 described a mechanism whereby telomeres can prevent cell cycle arrest even when Rad3-Rad26 (ATR-ATRIP) and Rad9-Rad1-Hus1 (9-1-1) checkpoint sensor complexes are massively accumulated at telomeres and activated, due to the elimination of telomere protein Taz1. We showed that telomeres in taz1∆ cells block Chk1 phosphorylation by limiting accumulation of Crb2 (53BP1 ortholog) at telomeres, and found that forced targeting of Crb2 to telomeres leads to Chk1 phosphorylation and cell cycle arrest in taz1∆ cells, but not in wild-type cells. In order to explain this phenomenon, we investigated status of the known recruiters of Crb2, and found that 1- Rad4/Cut5 (TopBP1 ortholog) is present and activated, 2- phosphorylated H2A (γ-H2A) is also present, but 3- H4K20me2 is surprisingly missing at telomeres. Therefore, we proposed that shortage of H4K20me2 could contribute to telomere's ability to prevent Crb2-dependent cell cycle arrest. Inaddition, we determined that other subunits of fission yeast shelterin complexes, Pot1 and Ccq1, play critical roles in preventing Crb2 accumulation and Chk1 activation. Furthermore, we found that elimination of Set9, a sole enzyme responsible for generating H4K20me, me2 and me3, was able to partially rescue accumulation of Crb2 and strong cell cycle arrest phenotype found in taz1∆ ccq1∆ cells (Fig. S5D). Taken together, these observations suggested that the fission yeast shelterin complex contribute in attenuation of Chk1 activation via histone-dependent and -independent regulation of Crb2. It is also important to note that elimination of set9∆ or γ-H2A only partially abrogate checkpoint activation in response to DNA damages in fission yeast, due to the existence of CDK-dependent modulation of Cut5-Crb2 interaction that allow recruitment and activation of Crb2 at DNA damages even in the absence histone modifications. We view with great interest the data presented by Audry and colleagues. Their work alerts the community that the basis of the checkpoint inhibition mechanism at telomeres is far from being fully understood. We do not view, however, that this constitutes a matter of incompatible results. In fact, our results are experimentally different from the current study: We did not normalize H4K20me2 levels over H4 levels as in their Fig. 1B, instead we measured different forms of H4K20 methylation as a ratio of total input. While normalization could be useful in certain circumstances, it could also introduce unintended artefact. Thus, without evaluating their original raw data, it is nearly impossible to determine if their newly identified H4K20me2 antibody behave substantially different from antibody utilized in our previous study (Abcam ab9052). Normalization may simply reflect fewer H4 levels at telomeres and, consequently, provide an explanation to our previous finding that lessH4K20me2 and Crb2 accumulate at telomeres. We would also like to point out that the H4K20me2 antibody utilized in our study was originally validated by SL Sanders (Sanders et al. 2004, Fig. 1), and widely used (more than 20 publications to date). Using the same antibody as our study, others have since corroborated our results. ChIPseq experiments initially performed by the group of S Grewal, NIH alerted us to lower levels of this mark near telomeres (personal communication). More recently, Svensson et al. 2015, looking at genome-wide distribution of H4K20me2 (Fig S4B), independently observed reduced levels of this mark at pericentromere and subtelomere regions. Therefore, we are somewhat surprised and disappointed that this manuscript does not directly compare their newly identified antibody against the previously established H4K20me2 antibody. In any case, a potential explanation to our seemingly contradictory results may reside on different affinities ofthe antibodies used. It may be that this new reagent is able to pick up low amounts of H4K20me2 that we were previously unable to detect. If so, this would sustain a quantitative model whereby very low levels of this chromatin modification may be unable to provide sufficient enough Crb2 to trigger a sustained checkpoint response. Nevertheless, since experimental evidences strongly suggests that Set9-dependent H4K20 methylation alone cannot provide a full explanation to the refractory nature of telomeres to Crb2 as we outlined above, we do believe that it is very important to further investigate how telomeres prevent checkpoint activation in collaboration or in parallel to regulation of chromatin status, in particular, using independent techniques that would support each other. We openly divulge our identity: Miguel Godinho Ferreira and Toru Nakamura 