This is a valuable paper providing in-depth information on pregnancy related complications and emergencies in the context of Bangladesh. It draws on the global and Bangladesh literature and situates the study well within the existing evidence. The main concern with the paper the presentation and description of the methods. The study is described as a 'qualitative case study'. The authors have completed a review of record of women with complications during pregnancy and delivery and present the quantitative findings of this review. They have then randomly selected 15 cases for in-depth interviews. This sounds more like a mixed methods study. Greater clarity on the qualitative interviews is required i.e. how were these conducted, by whom, where, was their an interview guide, did the women consent? The decision to randomly select women needs to be justified; with a mixed methods design, the authors could have purposively selected women from their case notes to explore particular issues in the interviews. Greater clarification on how the interviews were analysed: were they audio-recorded and transcribed? how did they come up with the 5 headings in the table - are these the emerging themes from the qualitative analysis? While Table 4 is interesting and gives a good insight into the cases, the paper would be greatly strengthened if this descriptive presentation could be synthesises and reported in the results. This synthesis of the key issues emerging from the interviews should also be included in the abstract. The quotations provided in Table 4 come from various people, not just the women e.g. TBAs, nurse, panchayat etc. Does this mean these individuals were interviewed? if so details of the methods used for these qualitative interviews also need to be given. Further details on the socio-economic situation of the tea gardens would help readers understand the context. Acronyms and Bangladeshi-specific words should be spelt out for an international audience. This has the potential to be an interesting and valuable paper, but greater clarity on the qualitative methods and analysis is required before being indexed. 