The case series describes the use of a Federal Drug Administration-approved electroacupuncture device, the Military Field Stimulator, which is a type of percutaneous electrical neural field stimulation (PENFS), for the treatment of patients with sympathetically mediated chronic pain syndromes. This is a novel approach to treat chronic pain, by stimulating auricular branches of cranial nerves and likely modulating and normalizing the autonomic systems in the brain. Overall, this is an interesting and well-written description of 2 patient cases. Introduction The introduction describes well the complexity of fibromyalgia and complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS), including the hypotheses these syndromes are sympathetically mediated entities. However, we believe the introduction would be greatly improved by decreasing some of the details regarding fibromyalgia and CRPS, and instead focusing more on PENFS. For example, paragraphs two and three are repetitive and could be condensed into a single paragraph. On the other hand, PENFS is new technology and unfamiliar to most readers. The authors describe it later, in the Discussion section, however, the article would flow better if PENFS was introduced earlier. For example, Figure 1 could be part of the introduction. Case Presentation- Case 1 The first patient has fibromyalgia, as well as sacroiliac joint dysfunction and comorbid mood disorder. The patient in case one had a drastic, sustained improvement in her pain, as well as her functional status. Case Presentation- Case 2 For the patient with CRPS (case two) there is no mention of abnormal sympathetic tone in the affected extremity: swelling, edema, skin color changes, and temperature changes. This is important, as normalization of such findings (i.e. temperature difference between affected and unaffected leg during PENFS application) would support the notion that PENFS works by decreasing sympathetic tone, possibly in a similar way as a sympathetic block would act. Discussion PENFS shows potential as a novel, non-pharmacological, low side-effect profile, treatment for patients with complex pain syndromes that are refractory to other therapies. The two cases responded well to this therapy, despite not using it as recommended by the manufacturer. Both patients had significant pain relief from acupuncture, before initiation of PENFS, and the authors mention that “… acupuncture might have primed these two patients for success with the PENFS device …”. The authors should also discuss the possibility that these patients responded to PENFS because they had good pain relief with acupuncture (selection bias). The authors should consider explaining the rationale for choosing these patients for PENFS trials. Was it because these patients had previously responded well to acupuncture? It may be that certain patients and possibly certain subtypes of fibromyalgia and CRPS respond to acupuncture, whereas others do not. The authors should also comment more broadly on the use of acupuncture for chronic pain syndromes in the discussion. Minor points: Remove the from “auricular branches of the cranial nerves” in abstract and discussion. “Zamanuer et al.” is misspelled. 