The paper by Sharvit and colleagues is an interesting commentary paper mostly based on two studies aiming at exploring the role of the insular cortex in integrating sensory input and internal predicting models to formulate the perception of an aversive stimulus (Fazeli and Bchel (2018 1 ) and Sharvit et al. (2018 2 )). Sharvit and co-workers also wrote one of the two papers on which this commentary is based. The two original studies focused on comparing the response to painful stimuli to another negative stimulation. In one case a disgusting olfactory stimulation was used, while in the other, a set of negative-valence pictures from the IAPS database were used. The commentary paper nicely points out the convergences of the two studies and their potential limitations. It also importantly noticed the differences in the two findings discussing their convergences and the complementary nature of the two. I have no significant concerns about the commentary paper, and I believe that this offers an interesting supplement to the original discussion of Sharvit and colleagues’ work. I only wish to point out a few comments to further develop and hopefully stimulate the discussion about the potential role of the insula in predictive coding. It is known that it can be difficult to match the saliency of negative stimuli with the saliency of positive stimuli. The former are typically more arousing than the latter (Ferri et al. (2015 3 )). However, when this aspect is taken into consideration carefully, results (at least at the behavioural level) show that saliency matters more than valence (Spaccasassi et al. (2019 4 )). Although it is clearly the aim of the two original studies, is it possible that the insula contributes to the predictive coding of every salient stimulus? In other words, is it possible that the role of the insula is not limited to the two hypotheses “this will hurt” or “this will be bad”, but may extend to “this will be arousing”? Relatedly, an even more extreme hypothesis could be made. The insula might be a sort of bottle-neck for the integration of internal models with sensory stimuli. Returning to the previous example, it is possible that the insula processing is the following: “are the sensory information and the internal models on the same page? Can I integrate the two sources of information?” The middle and anterior insula might be involved in the processing of this very general aspect. Sharvit and Fazeli papers mostly work in the prediction of stimuli of different sensory modalities with a similar intensity and the same negative valence, revealing a crucial role of the middle and anterior insula in coding prediction errors across sensory modalities. Potentially, it is possible to create a prediction incompatible with the incoming stimulus, so that it won’t be integrated, within a sensory modality. For example, the prediction of a very low painful stimulus coupled with a very high level of painful stimuli may generate the same prediction error signal that leads to the non-integration of the internal/external signals when coming from different sensory modalities. Fazeli and Bchel (2018 1 ) already proposed this point as a limitation of their study in their discussion. There is a debate that social exclusion may generate what is called “social pain”, which would have a brain footprint largely overlapping with physical pain (Eisenberger and Lieberman (2004 5 )). I am not personally a great sponsor of this “overlap theory”, the difference between the two experiences is immense perceptually so that the overlap between the two functions should be taken cautiously. Besides my personal concerns, one hypothesis is that with current experimental procedures we capture effects that are shared by all the arousing stimuli and not limited to pain (Legrain et al. (2011 6 )). Do the authors predict that the role of the insula in integrating expectations and sensory input would somehow work also for social pain? Alternatively, can the sensory-specific pattern of response for expectations, discussed in this commentary, help to distinguish the processing of physical pain from social pain? 