From what I can see, the author has made a number of important changes to this MS, which feels much stronger in its present version. This includes: Almost completely rewriting the abstract Far more additional information on the source data and methods have been added Tables summarising the results have been added now, largely in place of text blocks describing the statistical results Additional principal component analyses have been performed The discussion has been almost entirely rewritten based on this, including a section on limitations of the data and analyses I note here that Reviewer 2 has also provided some additional comments in their second review. I agree with both of these points, that the labelling of the PCA plots should be checked and made more appropriate, and that the results section would still benefit from a combined text and table presentation. I think this would entail just re-adding some of the deleted text from the previous version. I think that keep the results and discussion sections distinct though would be beneficial, as there is a lot to digest here. The present version is a bit weird with all of the results condensed into one table, referring to further results which are only then first present in the discussion. Additional comments Looking at the data again, I am still a bit worried that this involves time series data, but they are not being treated as such. Thus, the results are most likely suffering from autocorrelation or long-term impacts of background trends, and require further statistical analysis to be sure of this. I am really only familiar with time series analysis for palaeontological data though, see for example here: https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms12737#Sec11 1 – I am a bit suspicious that because of this problem, many of the correlation coefficients reported might be artificially higher than what is realistic. I think that this needs to be very carefully considered here. My apologies for not indicating this in the first report, but I could not see the data to check this. The limitations section might work better after the rest of the discussion My expertise on the intersection between politics and research is quite limited, and I will refrain from commenting on those elements of the discussion. Although they are, at least to me, very interesting! As much of the discussion again is based on the results, which I suspect might change given my recommendations for the methods above, I will refrain from commenting on them too much at the present. From what I can gauge though, they seem to be well thought out, contain relevant literature, and do not oversell the results too much (in their present state). My apologies for asking for potentially more analytical work to be done at this stage. I feel that it is necessary to look at the data through the lens of time though to better understand some of the results being obtained here. Keep up the great work for now! References 1. Tennant J, Mannion P, Upchurch P: Sea level regulated tetrapod diversity dynamics through the Jurassic/Cretaceous interval. Nature Communications . 2016; 7 (1). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Palaeontology, Open Scholarly Communication I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Tennant JP. Reviewer Report For: National culture as a correlate of research output and impact [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 8 :237 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22695.r54254 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-237/v2#referee-response-54254 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Waltman L. Reviewer Report For: National culture as a correlate of research output and impact [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2020, 8 :237 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22695.r54253 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-237/v2#referee-response-54253 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 14 Oct 2019 Ludo Waltman , Centre for Science and Technology Studies (CWTS), Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22695.r54253 The author has made various improvements. However, the revised paper suffers from two problems that I would like to request the author to address. The first problem is a major one, while the second one is more minor. ... Continue reading READ ALL 