"Transcranial direct current stimulation and attention skills in burnout patients: a randomized blinded sham-controlled pilot study" is addressing an important research and clinical question regarding executive memory, attention, and clinical symptoms in burnout. Data from 15 patients, randomized to 3 weeks of active anodal tDCS over left DLPFC or sham combined with standard behavioral therapy revealed that anodal tDCS significantly improved attention in patients with burnout. Major Comments: Major problems with neuromodulation studies are the small sample sizes and heterogeneous patient populations. The authors already mentioned those pitfalls as their biggest shortcomings. Nonetheless, it remains a major point of criticism for me. In order to get significance in TMS (and tDCS studies), Sack et al. , (2009) 1 demonstrated that power analyses showed 5 participants are sufficient to reveal a significant behavioral effect on cognition in TMS studies using fMRI-guided neuronavigation. However, the number of necessary participants increases to n = 9 in studies using MRI-guided neuronavigation, to n = 13 when using group Talairach coordinates, and to n = 47 when using EEG positions, like F3 or AF3. As for the limitation of using heterogeneous patient groups, the demographic characteristics revealed are limited to age, gender, and burnout severity expressed by MBS. Reporting other relevant characteristics, such as duration, employment, ON/OFF medication, etiology, level of education, hospitalization, etc,… would give us a better understanding of how representative the groups were. Also, some of these variables could be explored for significance or even predictivity in future studies. Also, since a trend towards inhibition and shifting was reported, and the right inferior frontal gyrus has been associated with inhibition, the choice of placing the cathode on F8 was not optimal. rIFG is only about 2 to 2.5 cm posterior to F8. Since the reference sponge used had a size of 5x7, rIFG could have been affected by the current. Only continuous outcome measures were reported. Since it better reflects better clinical practice, I would add a categorical outcome measure, i.e., percentage of responders/remitters. A TCT device was used. The strap it comes with is made of a neoprene strap which could absorb the saline solution potentially increasing the surface area of the target area. Also, is this device EC approved? It was unclear whether all the patients in both conditions had been undergoing psychotherapy prior to the add-on tDCS therapy. If psychotherapy was new to all, it is a major confound. It could also be the reason why both groups improved burnout and depression-wise. In the tDCS protocol section, Fp3 is mentioned as the target site, “left DLPFC”. Since the 10-20 system of electrode placement is used, defining the target site as AF3 is probably better than Fp3. Also, the vast majority of TMS/tDCS studies targeting left DLPFC to stimulate F3. Why was Fp3/AF3 selected? DLPFC is indeed a large area. But an elaboration on the reason why a more anterior part of DLPFC was chosen should be explained. Minor Comments: In the background section of the abstract/methods, only one objective (attention and executive control) is mainly elaborated upon. I would also add the clinical objective, i.e., burnout, depression amelioration. Only QoL was briefly mention. The tDCS section of the introduction is not well structured. It’s better to subdivide the use of tDCS into neurological and psychiatric conditions. Now a distinction is made between “motor, cognitive, affective disorders” and “Alzheimer’s and MDD”. Two papers on depression are mentioned: one submitting patients to 1 session and the other to 15 sessions. I would talk about the importance of the number of sessions as a potential variable that could increase tDCS effect (Brunoni) 2 to explain why you submitted the patients to 15 sessions. Also, there are maybe one or two articles on stress in professionals, indirectly referring to burnout with no tDCS effect on burnout. One of the contributions of this article is that it may be the first looking at burnout. I would highlight this. I would also go more into details of other potential brain regions that could have been targeted, especially for those tasks that did not show a tDCS effect. Only DLPFC is mentioned. E.g. as mentioned above, inhibition has not been linked to DLPFC. Or why you included those tasks while targeting DLPFC. It could be the reason why no significance was observed in inhibition. A paragraph on neurotransmitters could also be added. Specifically, alterations in dopamine and noradrenaline levels in DLPFC have been associated with impaired working memory performance. TMS and tDCS over DLPFC have also been shown to release dopamine in various brain regions, including the right ventral striatum. Further, tDCS to DLPFC has shown to improve participants’ memory accuracy, an effect that has been correlated significantly with dopamine release. I would also mention briefly why it took 3 years to recruit 15 patients. It could be helpful for future studies recruiting patients with burnout. Were the patients asked at the end of the treatment whether they knew they had received sham or real? (chi-squared test to test the integrity of masking). Were patients asked to evaluate their level of discomfort? The level of discomfort/pain has been associated with a TMS/tDCS effect. 