Han and colleagues examined the psychometric properties of the English version of a growth mindset measure in the moral domain. Moral growth mindset (MGM) may prove to be a useful motivational construct in the scientific study of morality in general, and moral development in particular. I believe the authors present sufficient initial evidence of the validity and reliability of their measure, marking an important step in the scientific study of MGM in English-speaking populations. I see three major issues with the paper in its current form, and I would encourage the authors to revise their manuscript in light of my suggestions. First, my biggest concern is the use of phrases such as “improve one’s morals” and “improve your morals.” The former occurs in the paper’s conceptual framing (p. 3) and the latter appears in each of the MGM scale’s four items (p. 4). The issue with these phrases is that improving one’s morals seems to deviate conceptually from improving one’s morality. One might improve their morals by setting new (or higher) moral standards for themselves, yet they may fail miserably in living up to their moral values. By contrast, improving one’s morality involves actually becoming a better person, and this, I believe, is the construct the authors intended to measure. Since in my view the items miss the target to some extent, I have indicated that the work is only “partly” technically sound. Unfortunately, I don’t think much can be done about this issue at this point, but at a minimum I would recommend that the authors either provide an argument for the use of "moral" rather than "morality" in their scale, or identify this as a limitation of their scale. In addition, they might choose to argue that this concern is assuaged by the scale’s strong evidence of convergent validity with other measures of morality. Second, I think the CFA results need to be communicated more fully, and that is why I have indicated that the statistical analyses and their interpretations are only “partly” appropriate. On p. 4, I certainly understand consulting previous studies (e.g., Han et al. , 2018), but data from the current (i.e., English) study should be given primary importance in refining the English scale. I recommend reporting the factor loadings from the original CFA (i.e., before Items 1 and 2 were removed), so readers can evaluate whether removing these items was justified on empirical grounds. On a related note, I think it would be appropriate to acknowledge the small factor loading (-.39) for the reverse-scored item in Study 2. Third, I think the introduction to Study 2 (p. 5) should be expanded considerably. It would be very helpful to provide a brief rationale for why the selected constructs were chosen for convergent and discriminant validity testing. In addition, it would be helpful to specify hypotheses concerning the strength and direction of the associations between MGM and other constructs (i.e., with which constructs does MGM have strongest and weakest theoretical ties?), and why. The discussion currently states that the observed associations were “as hypothesized,” but no hypotheses were specified in the lead-up to Study 2. I also found myself wondering why Chiu et al. 1 (1997)’s original 3-item English MGM measure was not included for convergent and incremental validity testing. Minor comments: Page 3: My understanding is that growth mindset generally concerns one’s beliefs about the malleability of one’s own (and others’) qualities. Thus, it seems a little bit too generic to define growth mindset as believing “it is possible to improve aspects of one’s life.” There are aspects of a person’s life (e.g., what kind of work they do; where they live, etc.) that are not qualities of their personhood. I suggest the authors consider revising their opening definition of growth mindset. Page 3: It’s not clear to me how allowing participants to define “moral” and “character” necessarily allows them to do so “without bias.” Instead, I think it would be more accurate to say that the approach taken leaves it up to participants to interpret "moral" and "character" according to their own subjective understandings of those terms. (Note that this approach makes no claim that participants’ understandings are “without bias.”) Pages 3 and 5: I suggest the authors change the “Participants” heading to “Participants and procedures.” Page 4: I suggest confirming that three IRB approvals were needed for just two studies. Pages 4-5: I suggest referring to model fit and reliability indices as either “indices” or “indexes,” rather than “indicators.” Given that CFA was involved, readers may assume “indicators” refers to measured variables loading onto latent factors. Page 5 (last paragraph of Study 1): I would like to suggest an alternative explanation as to why Items 1 and 2 (presumably) had lower factor loadings. These two were the only items to convey morality/character as dispositional (e.g., "You have a certain morality and character..."; "Your morality and character are something about you..."). By contrast, all items measured malleability beliefs, including the retained reverse-scored item (“To be honest, you can’t really improve your morals and character.”). My understanding is that a growth mindset is anchored in malleability beliefs, and having a growth mindset does not preclude the belief in moral dispositions (e.g., with effort I can become a more consistently/dispositionally honest person). In other words, perhaps the reason why Items 1 and 2 presumably had lower factor loadings was because they strayed somewhat from the core of the growth mindset construct (i.e., malleability beliefs), rather than because they used the vague qualifier, “much.” Just some food for thought. Page 5 (Participants section): Much of the first two paragraphs in this section is redundant with the procedures described in Study 1. The authors may wish to simply state that the same recruitment procedures were used as described in Study 1. Page 5: I would strongly urge the authors to omit the term, “marginally correlated” in relation to MGM’s association with the bDIT. Once a threshold for statistical significance has been set (e.g., .05), a finding is either statistically significant or non-significant. Correlations with p-values between .05 and .10 are non-significant. Page 6 (Table 3): I suggest indicating where Cronbach alphas are reported (i.e., on the diagonal). Page 6: More information on the potential utility of the MGM measure for understanding moral development would be a nice selling point for the scale. For example, this scale makes it possible to test whether MGM moderates the efficacy of moral education and social emotional learning interventions. The scale would also be an important outcome measure in examining how to nurture MGM (e.g., through process praise, teaching about neuroplasticity, etc.). Page 6: It is not yet clear why the authors would like to have conducted CFAs for the other measures. I would suggest they either drop this piece or further explain why additional CFAs would be desirable if the sample were large enough. Page 6: I think more explanation is needed as to why testing measurement invariance would be helpful. For example, the authors might say that examining measurement invariance across diverse groups of people (e.g., political conservatives vs. liberals; young adults vs. older adults) would help evaluate whether the scale—which leaves it up to participants to interpret morality and character in the item stems—in fact measures the same thing for groups who may use different underlying folk conceptions of morality. 