Determining the l x and estimating the force of mortality for children under five in Bangladesh Review Comments: Introduction: Introductory paragraphs focus on IMR whereas this analysis is on Child mortality. The citations are also mostly on IMR than under 5 child mortality. It has also been mentioned that “Child mortality rates and, in particular, infant mortality rates (IMRs) dropped sharply in developed countries, but over the past five decades it has been difficult to lower rates in developing countries such as Bangladesh” but the IMR and under 5 Child mortality rate trend of Bangladesh does not support this statement. (Ref: https://www.macrotrends.net/countries/BGD/bangladesh/infant-mortality-rate#:~:text=The%20infant%20mortality%20rate%20for,a%204.49%25%20decline%20from%202017) (Ref: https://knoema.com/atlas/Bangladesh/Child-mortality-rate ). The statistics given regarding under five child mortality (“29,000 children under the age of five die every day in Bangladesh”) is from 2009. However, updated data on IMR and 5yrs mortality could have been cited. Generally, speaking this article referred to data in which most of the cases are old although, recent data were available. Method: The analysis of this study was based on the BDHS data of 2007 whereas there were reports/data of 2014, 2017-18 on which this analysis could have been done. The observed smoothed, and predicted survival function ( l x values) for children under five in Bangladesh: The model explained about 94%, which is a strength of this analysis Table 2: Smoothed and predicted survival function could have been shown for ages in months. At least at 6 months 12 months 18 months…… would be more practical. It seems that potential confounding variables were not considered in the best fit models. Some modifiable risk factors that could have been considered is the analysis of this study. Results: Decreasing and increasing pattern have been shown at specific ages (in months) and also according to residential status. It would be better to show the results either for every month up to the age of 5yrs or at least at some specific ages like 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, so on... This type of presentation of the results might help policy makers to take policy decisions and the researchers to further undertake research to explore the reasons for such findings. As regards the rural/urban distribution, urban slum people are the most vulnerable therefore, breakdown analysis for the slum population would be more practical. However, if secondary data does not allow to do so then it should be stated as a limitation of the study under the discussion section. Discussion: Discussion centered on the appropriateness of the modelling, however, some probable explanation(s) of the findings could have been discussed e.g., why a decreasing pattern was observed in ages 0-20 months and increasing trend in ages 20-53.5 months. Nothing has been mentioned about the methodological limitations of this study and the reason for using 2007 BDHS data where data od 2017-18 are available. Conclusion: Concluded on the relationship of age and force of child mortality but did not take into consideration of the rural/urban relationship though it was one of the objectives of this study. 