This article outlines a new model to making scientific findings public. It argues that typical journal publishing processes are no longer fit for purpose and discusses pros and cons of preprints, before describing "Open Science Platform". The article is very timely given the latest discussions around preprints in biology, stimulated by Ron Vale's preprint, then article on the subject (Ref. 19 in this article). Open Science Platform is in essence a nose-to-tail set of services that enable researchers to collaboratively write, publish, openly peer review, revise, credit, evaluate and archive scientific articles with minimal friction. The philosophy is that anything we think would be useful to publish should be published, and we will organize this bulk by devising better filtering/discovery mechanisms and reward systems post publication. While quite a few journals have touched many parts of this particular elephant, there is not to my knowledge an existing public platform that offers all these steps aside from the one described here. F1000 has developed such a platform, but the authors note that many other publishers are probably also building similar platforms to provide some healthy competition on the services provided. I have no major criticisms of the article itself - it is not overly pushing a particular (F1000) product but rather painting a picture of what open science publishing might look like, reviewing challenges and possible solutions to the sub-optimal aspects of our current publishing systems. Frequent reference is made to many of the on-going efforts in this area and the authors clearly state their roles at F1000. An important issue that was given only brief attention is the matter of data and other research objects associated with articles. Open science extends to many aspects other than article publishing. The authors acknowledged that data underling assertions in articles are critical, as is the need to deposit data in community-supported repositories with data-appropriate access, but delegates this particular challenge to other groups. Clearly research communities and resources need to lead from different angles - but nevertheless in a more rapid and expansive publishing mode, new mechanisms will be required to ensure rigour, and support the desired behaviour around data deposition and archiving. One of the key points of open science is to enable reuse of data and other outputs in other contexts. Therefore an open science platform for articles will need to operate in a well-coordinated fashion with data archives and processes to ensure that the gains in article publishing also apply to related data and other research objects (and the emerging credit systems for those too). One aspect I would have liked to have seen the authors explore more is the fundamental matter of how to stimulate uptake of open science platforms by the key target audience: researchers. The technical challenges are tractable, the social ones the blocker. For many researchers, deeply engaged in their work at the bench, such open science systems are a long way from current operating practices, so adoption may take a while and many incentives along the way required.