Jhaveri Krishnan et al. present a short but impactful manuscript, where they studied the relationship between food environment and cardiovascular mortality, using various national-level sources. The current manuscript is clearly written, with an appropriate analysis plan and with the conclusions being adequately supported by the presented results. Jhaveri Krishnan et al. arrived at the conclusion that a higher (i.e. more favorable) food environment index was associated with lower cardiovascular mortality. Both ‘limited access to nutritious food sources’ and ‘food insecurity’ are becoming important topics both on public health policy and cardiovascular disease epidemiology research circles. This is an important contribution to the scientific literature, delivering a timely message that can potentially have a direct effect on individuals from lower income levels, who are already at a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. I do, however, have a few comments: Major comments: Introduction: Line 11: It appears that the authors are trying to convey the importance of their aim: study the relation of food environment and CVD mortality, which can certainly inform different stakeholders, from healthcare all the way to public health policy. The issue that I see is that this sentence is redundant, stating the intended goal, and repeating itself as it ends. I would recommend rephrasing this sentence, especially in light of the Introduction being as succinct. Methods: I am not quite sure I understand what ‘measure’ was created by the two-stage fixed-effects model. Could the authors elaborate on this section? I understand this is the method used by the County Health Rankings – did the authors create their own? Could the authors explain what methodology or criteria were used to identify/select the variables included in the linear regression model for FEI and CVD mortality rates? In addition, I understand that lack of insurance is especially important in the population younger than 65 years of age due to lack of Medicare – but does this mean that insurance status was collected for all ages, and “uninsured” (among those 65 years of age) was the variable included in the model? Or was the study population only individuals 65 years of age? This is not clear. Seeing as they are related to CVD mortality, were other CV risk factors available to inform the current analysis (hypertension, for example)? It would be interesting to see, especially for hypertension, since close to 50% of US adults have hypertension, and many treat it with lifestyle modifications, with diet and exercise at their center – which would be germane to the topic at hand and would add another level of relevance, without necessarily adding complexity to the analysis. Related to the comment above: I notice that “leisure physical activity” is included in Table 1 of the results, but is not mentioned in the Methods or Results sections. Was this intended? Discussion: In the Limitations section specifically, the second limitation brings some confusion. On the one hand, I understand that the study was “socio-demographically adjusted, population-based”, but then the authors mention that patient-level direct risk factors were not included in the analysis. Could the authors expand on this area? I am not entirely clear which risk factors belong in this section, seeing that some were used (e.g. smoking, diabetes and obesity), and some where not (e.g. physical activity, or potentially, hypertension). Minor comments: Abstract: Background: I wouldn’t utilize the phrasing “ better cardiovascular mortality”. Perhaps “lower cardiovascular mortality” or “improved mortality outcomes”? Keywords: It is standard practice that keywords be listed alphabetically. Introduction: “United States” appears 3 times in a 1-paragraph Introduction. I would suggest using the “US” acronym after defined the first time, to avoid repetitiveness in such a small space (even beyond the Introduction, at the authors’ discretion). I notice that “cardiovascular mortality” and “CVD mortality” are used interchangeably at different times. For the sake of consistency, I would recommend choosing one and using throughout, which would reflect greatly on the authors in terms of their order, methodology, and attention to detail (once more, even beyond the Introduction, at the authors’ discretion). Methods: The paper would benefit greatly from a short sentence depicting the study population, and exclusion/inclusion criteria. Items like food insecurity are often asked at a family level, and in the current manuscript, it seems like results are reported per capita. Is there any information that the authors could provide as to the actual measurement of the FEI individual components, and how they were estimated? If allowed by word count. Typo: a space is needed between the words “was” and “conducted” in the last line of the Methods section. 