The study reports pneumococcal carriage in a cohort of Kenyan children. This has significant implication when it comes to the evaluation of the impact of PCV10 on the population structure of pneumococcus. Specific comments: Pneumococcus is a normal commensal, not "highly invasive" as is reported in intro. The authors must avoid the use of non-standard nomenclature such as SPn. Further, there is inconsistent use of S. pneumoniae and pneumococcus throughout the text. These cannot be used interchangeably. The introduction needs to be reworked and repetitions avoided, i.e. in paragraph 1 and 5, the authors talk about 90 serotypes. The last sentence of paragraph 5 does not include references. The study was conducted between 2017 and 2018, it would really have benefited from the WHO working group report on pneumococcal carriage studies 1 . Most importantly, 79% (164/206) being non-viable seriously indicates problems in the experimental design. The authors don't say anything about broth enrichment in order to improve recovery of the pneumococcus. Amies media is not ideal for pneumococcus compared to STGG. A 10ul innoculum is very little, did the authors attempt to use bigger volumes especially for the samples with no growth? A 2% BA plate is used as primary culture then selective media, if possible, do this in parallel. Need to be more consistent in reporting proportions. What was the PCV10 vaccine coverage at each timepoint? Also authors need to report non-pcv as non-PCV10 because some of the serotypes the report as "non-vacccine" such as serotype 3 are included in PCV13. Repetition of results. The authors do not report any metadata looking at risk factors for carriage, hence the "epi" in title must fall out. The authors repeatedly report "decrease" in carriage post PCV, but they really can’t say this without data on Pre-PCV10. Avoid sweeping statement to infer serotype replacement if they actually don't show this evidence. "While this is a significant reduction from the pre-vaccine era, it is still high compared to malaria, diarrhea and HIV/AIDS" doesn't make sense, what are the authors referring to? "This is a very important finding as it explains the high level of child morbidity and mortality due to pneumococcal disease despite the availability of PCV-10." How do you arrive at this if working with carriage and not invasive disease isolates. This and other strong conclusions need to be avoided, you surely cant with 42 isolates. 