Thank you for the opportunity to review the article entitled “Status of drowning in Nepal: A study of central police data”. This is a well-written study detailing drowning in a country with little previous published research, using a novel data source being police data. I have some general comments for the authors that I hope they find useful. For someone unfamiliar with the geography of Nepal, I suggest adding a map as an additional figure that depicts the regions in Table 1 (Terai, Plains and Hills) geographically. You need to clarify somewhere in the methods (and abstract) that this is all drowning, both intentional and unintentional. I also have some specific comments for the authors as follows: Abstract - Methods – can you specify the dates of the study – e.g. 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2015 Abstract – Methods – can you confirm what places means? Its not aquatic locations so is it geographical location within Nepal? Abstract – Methods – suggest replacing ‘done’ with ‘undertaken’ or ‘conducted’ Main manuscript – Introduction – this study needs a clearer aim – the sentence that currently ends the introduction may be about the study referenced before. A clearer aim e.g. this study aims to …. Using police report as the main data source, with media reports as a secondary source of data.. Methods – how many don’t report to police? Add to limitations. Methods – again confirm what place of drowning means if not type of body of water Ethics – usually even though the participants are deceased, this research would be considered as including human participants and ethics would be required. Is it possible to get ethics approval retrospectively? It is definitely helpful that you specify that the data received was de-identified. Results – can a definition for the term ‘open water’ as per the first paragraph of the results be added to the methods? Discussion – ‘systemic’ should be ‘systematic’. Discussion – please also cite dedicated epidemiological study of rivers that have been conducted in Australia 1 . These further support the statement that natural water bodies such as rivers regularly account for large proportions of drowning deaths. Discussion – when discussing riskier behaviour in males – you might want to note the involvement of alcohol (see Peden et al. (2017) 2 ). I’m not sure whether alcohol is a big issue in Nepal, and I note there was no toxicological data from police supporting or disproving alcohol involvement but it might be worth mentioning as an additional area of research for drowning in Nepal, especially among males. Strengths - By using police records, you also avoid issues with traditional ICD drowning codes (W65-74) not capturing all drownings (see Peden et al. (2017) 3 ). This is a strength of the study. Limitations – are there ever cases of people not reporting a drowning at all or not reporting it within 24 hours? If so this study likely underreports drowning in Nepal and this would be worth mentioning. 