This is an interesting research note and is likely to contribute to the literature. There are, however, several areas that need elaboration or clarification to better communicate the findings and their contribution. Use of Bayesian analysis in a reasonably large sample adds strength to the authors interpretation of null findings. Clarification about some detail of the Bayesian analysis for the reader would be helpful and should include: How was the prior selected and what was used for the prior distribution? Was it a noninformative or an informative prior? Was sensitivity analysis conducted to gauge the effect of the prior? It is worth noting that the sample is reasonably large, so the effect of the prior on at least some parameters may be small. Nevertheless, it would be helpful for the authors to note the effect of sample size on prior and posterior probabilities. In the first paragraph of the Discussion section, the authors make a strong declarative statement that the results “…rule out a specific theory about why CU traits are related to risky real-world behaviors... People with CU traits are not more likely to engage in risky behavior in a lab setting, so real-world risky behaviors are unlikely to be driven by risk-seeking for its own sake.” Although the following statements regarding caution in generalizing reward and punishment processing in laboratory tasks to behavior outside the lab clearly are warranted, the above statements seem a step too far. That is, the results clearly cast some doubt on the links and mechanisms of risk. The notion that the finding is conclusive, however, does not seem warranted. Rather, it is recommended that the authors use language to indicate that the current results fail to support links between the specific measure of risk used here and CU traits. It is a reasonable inference to note that the presence of CU traits alone and documented mechanisms of reward and punishment processing are not de facto predictors of risk. It seems more defensible to state something more akin to noting that the currents results call for reexamination of the mechanisms thought to link CU traits and risky behaviors. In extending these recommended comments, it would also be helpful for the authors to synthesize the discussion paragraphs a bit more in their discussion of the multifaceted/multidimensional nature of psychopathy and the implications of the broader psychopathy construct in understanding risk and its mechanisms. Overall, the paper is interesting and the above comments are offered in the spirit of strengthening how the results are communicated. 