This is a report by Nyarko et al. , who propose a novel screening strategy for diabetes mellitus in a rural population of Ghana, Africa. An aspect of regional epidemiological relevance that could be reproduced in other geographic locations with similar socioeconomic characteristics. Abstract: Introduction: it is not necessary to define prediabetes in this line. In Methods, it should describe the type of study and sampling. How were those 101 subjects chosen? In Results, the sentence "The need for further campaigns on alcohol and physical activity has emerged, even in rural areas", must go in Conclusions not in Results. Introduction: It is somewhat extensive, paragraphs 2 and 3 could be more concise, emphasizing the justification for the design of this study. Materials and methods: This section is somewhat disorganized, especially at the sample selection section. For this, it would be convenient to divide by subtitles according to the stages of the project, e.g.: - Study design and sample selection - Screening phase - Diabetes subjects selection phase - Clinical and capilary sugar evaluation - Definitions - Data analysis - Quantitative approach - Qualitative approach You must specify what type of sampling was used for both groups analyzed. Were the questions used by the mobile app validated or standardized, and by what method? There are some standardized questionnaires to assess the risk of diabetes in "healthy" subjects, such as the Diabetes Risk Test (ADA) and FINDRISK test. Why were some of these not used? Results: There are some characteristics that must be specified in a table or figure: In the USP group, how many subjects were prediabetic and diabetic according to the method used? What were the determinants or risk factors most often evidenced in this group? In the CDP group, how many subjects received pharmacological treatment? What were the most commonly used drugs? What were the factors or determinants of risk in control disease? Although some comparisons are described in the text, as a screening study, some characteristics must also be specified in a table or figure to evaluate the proportions comparatively. In table 2 it is important to include the variables related to psychobiological habits, family and personal history of cardiovascular diseases and their risk factors. ​​​Discussion: It would also be advisable to organize this section (without the need to place subtitles) to make it easier to read. What is known about this topic? Especially in your region. Main findings of the study. What does this study add? Limitations: Mention in detail in this section. 