This is an interesting article and well-written. I have some comments that I hope the authors find helpful: Introduction The context is missing in this sentence in the first paragraph: "The proportion of adolescents who have ever smoked waterpipe tobacco was between 4 and 33% in Africa and Asia, between 6 and 11% in the USA, and up to 38% in some UK communities", what is the year(s) for these estimates? In the next sentence: "Waterpipe tobacco use amongst young youth in Jordan increased from 14.0% to 22.6% between 2008 and 2011, with similar patterns seen in Lebanon, Canada, and the US", do you mean ever or current waterpipe use? In the second paragraph, I think the authors should add that waterpipe is perceived as less harmful and less addictive compared to cigarettes. In the second paragraph, the authors need to highlight the differences between waterpipe and cigarettes as the tobacco industry techniques are well known and can be the same for waterpipe. However, one point to elaborate on, as well, is the involvement of the cigarette industry if the authors are aware of any literature, in the waterpipe business. This will support their discussion under cross-industry overlap. Third paragraph, while the authors did a good job highlighting the tactics of the cigarette industry and that similar understanding is needed for the waterpipe, I did not enjoy the comparison to the alcohol industry. It is, to me, out of context here. Methods My main concern is that the sampling method may not necessarily capture exhibitors with "varying product type". Can the authors address this issue and justify their methodology? Under "Data Collection", please make it clear that each interview was attended by all 3 researchers. I am also concerned that by introducing themselves as researchers and what the study is all about, this may influence participants' responses and may intentionally lie about connection with a cigarette industry. How did the authors reduce this possible source of bias? The fact that the authors audio-recorded their own discussions after each interview can by itself introduce bias. Other than recall bias, how did the authors attempted to avoid conclusion bias while discussing the interviews? Following my previous question, how did the authors resolve any disagreement while transcribing the audio-recorded interviews? Results Some of the arguments for "Industry Growth" seem to me not really supporting growth rather globalization. For example, the proliferation of distributors and retailers in lower income countries can be due to a cheaper labor and because the waterpipe epidemic originated from the Middle East, rather than a growth. It can be also due to lax regulatory policies that allow such a proliferation. Can the authors comment on that? Under "4. Attitude towards policy", please correct a typo: "For example, the owner of a major apparatus-producing camping..", should be "company" not "camping". Under "4. Attitude towards policy", please correct the typo: "One example that came up.......German law from the 1970s than..", should be "that" not "than". Discussion The second paragraph: "Our interpretation of cross-industry overlap is that waterpipe tobacco and cigarette industries are not in competition, but rather in collaboration.", I could not see any results based on this study to support this conclusion. Transcripts I assume the authors reported the transcripts for 18 out of the 20 interviews. While some interviews show detailed discussions among the 3 authors, others show only "Researcher 1"? 