Research and development of technology in the humanitarian arena is a rapidly growing field that encompasses many specialities. There are international working groups, peer reviewed journals and conferences dedicated to this field. This paper is a valuable addition to the body of evidence openly available to the academic, technician and aid worker. My review of this paper relies on my field experience of working in the humanitarian setting, particularly though the West African Ebola outbreak of 2014 till 2016. This paper describes the process, implementation and challenges of introducing a novel way of recording patient data electronically in a high biohazard environment. The aim being to improve data collection and the efficiency of patient interactions and communication. It is bold and brave of the authors to openly state the errors made through the design and implementation of this project. While there is substantial discussion around the lessons identified from their experience, there could have also been more highlighting some of the possible successes, not least that this project was rolled out at a time of unprecedented pressures on the organisation responsible, Mdecins Sans Frontires (MSF). In their peer review Whitworth and Bower (2016) have critically appraised the methodology and data analysis described in this paper. I am therefore not going to repeat what has already been expertly written, focussing instead on the patient care and field worker practicalities of this tool. Involvement from the field is raised on several occasions in the article, however it remains unclear to what lengths the designers and implementers used the returnees’ knowledge on the field realities to make this tool suitable for the task in-hand, beyond “informal discussions”. All volunteers returning from Ebola missions were routinely interviewed in the European headquarters by the organisation, to what extent this was used as an opportunity by the developing team is unclear, if not utilised was this a missed opportunity that could be added to their list of “lessons identified”. It would be useful to know how many returnees were interviewed, the style of interview used and how the information gained guided the designers. Furthermore, given that all returnees were debriefed at head office it would be worth stating if the returnees were all systematically questioned in a standardised manner, or if specific persons were chosen and how this choice was made. The field staff who used both the alpha version and full prototype were also interviewed, it would be informative to the reader to understand how many staff were involved in these interviews, whether they were expatriate or local staff and what their specific job role was. The experience of a European doctor may be different to that of a local nurse or health care assistant. The authors rightly discuss the difficulty of working in the full Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that is necessary to remain safe inside the “high risk” area of the Ebola Management Centre (EMC), it would be interesting to gain a deeper insight into how much this was factored into the overall program design. For example, visual difficulties and clumsiness were often described as part of the challenge of working in PPE. Were large buttons or colour coding on the tablet part of the design to assist the healthcare worker overcome these difficulties? During very busy times at the peak of the outbreak a numbered system was used to quickly identify the patients with the most immediate needs, a score from 1 (very well) to 5 (critically ill) was assigned to each patient. It would have been informative to know if this or other field-designed approaches were considered or incorporated into the program. Whilst the focus of the tablet appeared to be for transfer of medical information, there is much communication that must also be made between the EMC workers. Identification and location of deceased patients must be efficiently passed to hygiene teams, or safety concerns to logistical teams, was inter-disciplinary communication considered as part of this program? Similarly, whilst communication on patient symptomatology was traditionally shouted across the fence and then transcribed into folders outside the “high-risk” area, treatment decisions also needed to be remembered or shouted over. It is not entirely clear how much the tablet was utilised for recording treatments given, for example intravenous fluid administration, hygiene procedures or palliative care medications. This would be valuable from a patient care perspective and likely reduce prescribing errors, missing or duplication of doses. Retrospectively this could also have added to data on what treatment and care was being given and how often. Commonly a generic recipe of medications was administered to all patients from admission into the EMC, this could have therefore been pre-programmed into the tablets as an electronic prescription. The method of shouting information across the fence in the EMC, whilst this was often a part of high to low risk communication, was not exclusive. Digital photography that could later be transcribed was often used, particularly during times of high activity or when transferring patients from one location to another. Similarly, only those patients that were bedbound or too unwell to speak with healthcare workers from across the fence required examination and questioning in full PPE. Hence for many inpatient interactions the “high-risk” tablet would not be required. Explanation of how these other interactions were incorporated into the data gathering would be useful, particularly for the completeness of the information generated. The benefits of being able to talk with a patient across the fence, where the clinician was recognisable (no PPE needed) and there were no time constraints due to heat stress, meant that this was a desirable way of working whenever possible. However, it would not negate the use of the tablet as information could still be recorded on the hand-held device. The stated aim of making the most effective use of the limited time in PPE to treat patients has not been quantified. Did the tablet assist the healthcare worker in treating the patients, did the number of patients receiving clinical review or treatment change as a result of the tablet or were the health workers able to achieve the same quality of work in a shorter period of time? I think these would have been important questions to ask, rather than the focus being on the ease of data gathering and transfer, it could have been on quality and availability of patient care, perhaps including patient outcomes. I found the concept of using radio-frequency identification tags particularly interesting, this would have had great value both for finding and identifying patients for examination, but also importantly for identification and tracking of the deceased. Perhaps because this intervention came during the tail-end of the outbreak there is little discussion of how the tablet could be used for the management of deceased patients, though this was a major issue particularly during the peak of the outbreak when there was a high mortality rate. Unfortunately, the radio-frequency tag aspect of this project did not come to fruition, however a discussion on how this could be moved forward would be worthwhile. The potential benefits in the efficiency and quality of data collection gained through the use of the electronic tablet system are clear. How this translated into improving patient care seems less apparent. The balance between patient benefit and data for the sake of research and publication remained controversial throughout the Ebola outbreak. Whilst I don’t question the motives of the team behind this innovation, it would be interesting to know how they managed the balance of this innovation being primarily for patient rather than organisational benefit. The honesty of the authors and implementing team is to be applauded, though deeper discussion on how to move forward would have been of value. This venture came at a high price, and though it was not the success they had hoped for it is certainly not an entirely failed project either. Whilst the authors have identified lessons, it is not clear how they have been learnt. The conclusion would benefit a wider discussion of what next, where this technology can continue to be of use and developed to meet its ultimate aim: saving lives. The technology is presented as being developed for the specific situation of the EMC, however it would be easily transferable to many humanitarian settings where large numbers of patients or biohazard risks limit the accuracy and efficiency of traditional clinical record keeping. Measles, yellow fever, hepatitis E, cholera and Lassa fever outbreaks would all be well suited to the continued use and development of a potentially very useful field tool. The authors do refer to their vision of the future, and the plan to test a modifiable version of this technology in a nutrition project, a greater emphasis on this vison and how the lessons identified will be learned for the future could have been of use. As previously stated, humanitarian technology is a rapidly growing and developing phenomenon. The challenges, lessons and future plans identified by the authors are a useful reminder of how best intentions can go askew without the correct planning and inter-agency communication. These lessons are unlikely be unique to this situation, being broadly adaptable. The honesty of the authors on the difficulties in collaborating with Google is commendable, the next step though is who and how they will work with next. MSF has an opportunity to work within and alongside others in the humanitarian technology field, perhaps partners with the experience to assist them in avoiding these common pitfalls again.