This article provides an interesting attempt to synthesize theories and empirical findings regarding the potential utility of virtual reality in animal research. I found many of the referenced papers to be quite interesting from my fairly localized perspective on this subject. Overall, however, I find the article to be excessively speculative, insufficiently referenced and often repetitive. The speculations are quite often so vague that they are essentially meaningless. Below are some specific concerns: Application of the uncanny valley concept: It is a huge leap to assume there is an uncanny valley in all aspects of perception, the original idea is quite specific to and there is very good reason to think that the close but not quite uncanny valley does not generalize beyond this. Why would such a non-linearity be expected to be present in virtual reality? This argues that a poorly instantiated VR would actually be better than a very good, but not quite perfect one. Secondly, the emotional valence that is plotted to produce the uncanny valley comes from the immediate reaction of a human observer to a robot. This should not be confused with the emotional valence that is acquired by learning in a virtual environment based on the specific task contingencies and rewards or punishments that may be presented. A huge omission in this article is the concept of immersion vs. presence. The author refers to immersion in several places but fails to incorporate the critical concept of presence, which is defined as the psychological experience being in the virtual environment. This concept is referred to variously as and The absence of this important concept in the paper is perhaps the most serious underlying problem. and good performance do not necessarily require much immersion and should not be considered evidence of presence: an animal or human can be quite engaged and perform well in very rudimentary virtual environments as long as proper feedback is given (rewards, punishment, etc.), without being present in the virtual environment. Fundamentally, immersion vs. presence gets at the distinction between sensation and perception. Illusion, a term used frequently in the article, operates at the perceptual level and is therefore somewhat akin to presence, but its definition as a virtual stimulus for a real one does not fully capture the complexity of being present in a virtual environment. Virtuality is another frequently used term in the article, but its precise definition and how it relates to the immersion vs. presence distinction is entirely unclear. Several recent papers that are highly relevant to the paper should also be cited and discussed: Ravassard et al . (2012) - Multisensory control of hippocampal spatiotemporal selectivity . This paper directly compares place cells in real world and virtual environments in rats. Cushman et al . (2013) - Multisensory control of multimodal behavior: do the legs know what the tongue is doing? This paper shows spatial navigation in virtual reality in rats and utilizes isolation of the visual and auditory modalities combined with the simultaneous measure of two behavioral outputs. Aronov and Tank (2014) - Engagement of Neural Circuits Underlying 2D Spatial Navigation in a Rodent Virtual Reality System. This paper extensively characterizes place cells and grid cells in virtual reality. Aghajan et al. (2014) - Impaired spatial selectivity and intact phase precession in two-dimensional virtual reality. - This paper compares place cells in 2-D virtual and real world environments