The authors present a comprehensive analysis of the LLT1 (CLEC2D) protein on human cells and tissues using a newly generated monoclonal antibody, clone 2H7, using flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. In general, the information will be of interest to the scientific community studying this ligand - receptor (CD161) pair. The following points should be addressed: When describing the amounts of antibody used to stain cells or tissues, the absolute concentration of the antibody should be stated (e.g. 1 ug/ml, etc.), rather than "1/500", which is meaningless unless the protein concentration of the antibody solution is provided. In the Materials mention a solution of 1.42 mg/ml, so is this then diluted 1/500? It would be clearer to simply state the concentration used in the staining experiment rather than "1/500". The authors show decreased degranulation when NK cells were co-cultured with a cell line transfected with LLT1. However, subclones of cell lines or transfectants can vary in their ability to induce NK cell degranulation that is independent of the transduced gene or cDNA. The authors should provide a control experiment in which the LLT1-induced inhibition is reversed in the presence of a blocking antibody against CD161 and LLT1. Does the 2H7 antibody block the CD161-LLT1 interaction? This is important information that should be included in the revised paper. The authors should comment on how surface expression of LLT1 relates to expression of LLT1 transcripts in these cell populations. Do they correlate or not? PMA and ionomycin were used to stimulate the PBMC before analysis for LLT1 expression. It is well know that PMA can induce shedding of many cell surface proteins, for example CD4. Is LLT1 affected by PMA? This should be investigated and reported. Is the 2H7 antibody available commercially or will the authors deposit the hybridoma in the ATCC so it is available to others in the community? This is important so that other investigators can take advantage of this new information about LLT1 expression. 