Ive read with interest the manuscript by Lopez-Ayon at el. Overall, I think the authors have done a good job in characterizing qualitatively the differences in Ca 2+ responses induced by local membrane deformation and micro-injury. I particularly liked the measurements involving cyclic membrane perturbation and inhibition of Ca 2+ channels and internal store. I think the latter provide a good understanding on the different origin of the Ca 2+ released when cells are probed or micro-injured. Nevertheless, i have a technical concern and some questions that i feel the authors could have discussed more in-depth in the manuscript: Figure 4c and 4e(iv) show large deviations in the deflection of the cantilever when cells are indented for longer time periods. Which kind of feedback was used to control the AFM tip position? It appears as if no deflection feedback was really used, but rather the piezo was kept at constant z. It seems the system is either drifting, or the cell is changing its mechanical properties (softening) or its height (shortening) due to the Ca 2+ release. Could the authors comment on that? The fit obtained from fig 4d could be considered to have a slope of 1 (0.98), indicating an on-off response. More interestingly, the offset of 0.6s indicates that no matter the duration of the stimulation (and thus the total Ca 2+ released), the time required to recover baseline levels is constant. Would that be an expected behaviour, or is this the case only because the released Ca 2+ levels are small and very localized compared to the whole volume cell? In the discussion, the authors suggest that intracellular Ca 2+ acts as an integrating signal that increases until it reaches the threshold Ca 2+ concentration necessary to induce global Ca 2+ response. If that is the case, have they observed any global Ca 2+ responses when using multiple cyclic indentations with very short recovery times? Taking into account their results on Ca 2+ released for 1 single indentation, could they predict the number (or duration) of small indentations required to integrate enough Ca 2+ signal to start a global Ca 2+ response? 