This protocol paper details a prospective cohort study which will investigate the initial efficacy of home-based exercise program following total hip arthroplasty (THA). The authors present strong rationale for performing the study, in particular citing evidence regarding the deficits in strength and function following THA as well as the lack of consensus regarding rehabilitation following THA surgery. The study design is described in great detail, and the proposed methods will adequately answer the research question. The strengths of the study design include objective monitoring of exercise adherence, the standardization of the exercise protocol, and the combination of validated strength measures and functional performance outcome measures. The choice of exercises for the intervention target common deficits following THA, and the choice of a gait outcome as a primary outcome measure will represent an important functional outcome for patients. A unique aspect of this proposed trial is the proposed qualitative investigation into patients' perceived barriers to and motivations for participating in the proposed exercise program. Not only will this have potential to inform future trials, but may provide important information from the patients' point of view to better inform clinical practice and home exercise prescription after THA. There are also items the authors may wish to consider. First, although there are proposed training and meetings to ensure correct instruction by therapists to patients, the authors may consider including a way to objectively report fidelity data of the therapists to describe how well they adhered to the protocol. Second, due to the importance of collecting the exercise adherence data, is there a plan to handle missing data from the Bandcizer sensors? Or perhaps a way to ensure data is being collected over the weeks of intervention as expected and a plan for troubleshooting. Finally, although the choice of exercises for the protocol aligns well with common impairments following THA, it is possible the few specific exercises and proposed dosing may not yield the expected changes in gait speed without the inclusion of gait-specific training. Overall, this is a well written manuscript describing a well-designed study and the results should be valuable to the literature regarding rehabilitation after THA. 