Critical thinking is certainly a key skill which we would like our students to develop during their time in Higher Education. The paper points to the OECD studies showing that students tend to lack these critical thinking skills. I think it would also be good to highlight the evidence for this in the education literature. The paper looks at an intervention through an optional workshop to coach students to think about framing essay titles into questions. The hypothesis being that those who formulate questions achieve a higher mark when compared against those who did not. In the methods it would be good to clarify if the gender ratio of that particular module is typical of the wider cohort, it is suggested, but not implicitly stated. It would also be good to know if there were any mature students in this cohort (maturity being another confounding factor). The workshop was optional, giving rise to a group without the intervention, and a group with the intervention (control). It would be good to have a table here showing the numbers in each group, and the gender and age split. The authors suggest a confounding factor in that more motivated students (possibly achieving higher grades) were more likely to opt in. It would be interesting to look at gender and maturity as factors as well within the self-selecting group vs control group. I would like to see more information about the intervention workshop, how was it run? How long was it? Did the workshop only cover the framing of titles as questions, or did it also cover the structured argument required to answer the question? Did students who attend this follow up conversations within the workshop with further questions? If so, how would this have influenced their final grade? Do you have any qualitative data from student feedback to show you what was valued within the workshop? The paper states that the independent assessor who marked the essays was unaware of the study being conducted. Were the essay titles removed prior to marking? I think it would be good for the discussion to examine the recent rise in the number of A-levels students taking the extended project qualification (approx. 33,000-data can be obtained from the Joint Councils for Qualifications). This dissertation requires students to formulate a research question, and then to investigate and critically analyse sources. This is becoming an increasingly popular and important qualification, and is set to rise with the removal of the AS examination. It would be good for the authors to discuss what future impact this might have on the quality of critical thinking of our students as they enter into higher education. I think this paper hints at straight forward intervention within the curriculum which could help develop critical thinking skills, but I think the needs more evidence over at least another cohort of students on the same module before the influence of the workshop can really be shown on student attainment. 