In the study, Otarigho has reported the structural and physical characterization of Schistosoma DHODH enzyme with the use of different computational prediction methods including, protein-protein interaction and homology modeling. In addition, the author has identified hit compounds by structure-based virtual screening of DrugBank database and suggested some compounds as possible SmDHODH inhibitors. Overall, this manuscript is well-written, and the analyses appear well done. However, it looks incomplete without the experimental validations of the compounds and also lacks some results/discussion as commented below, and the author should address them in a revised manuscript. No crystal structures are available for any Schistosoma DHODHs and some differences have been shown in the active of DHODH as given in Fig 1. I suggest the author build models for other Schistosoma DHODHs mentioned in the manuscript, in addition to the SmDHODH, and compare the active sites between human and Schistosoma DHODHs. This can help us to understand the selectivity of Schistosoma DHODH inhibitors. In addition, there are some Schistosoma DHODH models have been published and the author may also want to compare the models with the published ones. To make sure the employed docking protocol is valid and reliable, the author may want to perform docking of some Schistosoma DHODH inhibitors reported previously before performing the docking of the DrugBank compounds. The author can check whether the docking protocol correlates the biological activity of the compounds or not. Some malarial and human DHODH inhibitors are in clinical trials. The author needs to make sure whether the screening resulted in any DHODH compounds. This needs to be discussed in detail in the manuscript. Regarding comment 3, I can see some human and malarial DHODH inhibitors in Fig 5. Can the author dock them into respective crystal structures and compare with Schistosoma DHODHs? I believe some of the compounds have been crystallized. There are some similar compounds in Fig 5. For example, g and m are sharing the same scaffold, triazolopyrimidine. I suggest the author remove the similar compounds and consider structurally diverse ones. 