The article describes the results of the first pangenomics codeathon. The purpose of the codeathon was two-fold, to propose technical specifications and standards for a usable human pangenome and to build tools for genome graphs. The traditional representation of a reference genome is a set of linear sequences (chromosomes), with possibly additional alternative sequences to capture variations. An alternative to a linear reference genome is a "pangenome", a representation of all genomic variation observed in a population. Pangenomes are modeled as graphs in this article. The article discusses the benefits of a pangenome reference over the traditional reference, and describes several software tools and pipelines for pangenomics applications. The authors explain very well the limitations of the linear reference genome, and describe how a pangenome graph reference would be superior. And it is great that the Conclusions section also raises important non-technical matters related to pangenomes, such as privacy concerns. The tools and pipelines described in the article build on VG, with some of them being very much work in progress, as is natural for the results of a codeathon. All the tools and pipelines, as well as the data used in the codeathon, are described in detail, and additionally all the code is available on github, allowing for easy replication of the development. Github also has detailed instructions on the use of the tools/pipelines and examples of the output. The article organization is at times confusing. The methods section consists of two parts: Implementation and Use cases, with the topics of Use cases and Implementation overlapping. But each category also has topics which are not in the other. The distinction between these two categories isn't clear either, as depending on the topic the data and/or methods descriptions can be found in one or the other (e.g. in "graph coordinate system", data and methods are described in Implementation, and "RNA-seq mapping" has all the data and methods in "Use cases"). In my opinion the article is scientifically sound, but it could use some re-structuring for better readability. Minor comments: For building the graphs you describe the first two methods in detail, but for third you simply say "In addition, we used SibeliaZ to build a graph...". The third method could use a sentence or two about it too. Figure 1: I found this slightly confusing that there's a GFA file that has one path ("P") line, and then there's "a path file accompanying the GFA file" with two path lines (of which one is in the former). In section "Pipeline for mapper evaluation on maize graphs", it is unclear what is the goal of this experiment till you look at Figure 3. The first sentence of the section also sounds odd, like there are words missing ("We also sought to test a plant model..."), and the wording of "comparing graphs" is in conflict with Figure 3 text. Typo in GSNAP ("GNSAP") in section "Mapping RNA sequencing data to variant graphs". In section "Use case: Producing a fully phased diploid assembly of the HG002 MHC region", what kind of data is 10X Genomics data? 