This narrative review is interestingly written. However, several major points need to be addressed prior to acceptance. The title "Biological effects of nicotine exposure“ is misleading as the article is focusing on cardiovascular, carcinogenic and reproductive effects of nicotine. The wide spectrum of neurological effects and especially addictive effects is not mentioned or discussed. Methods: The biggest methodological issues are the inclusion criteria for this review. As stated, ten search terms were used in PubMed to carry out literature search. Additionally, relevant studies and studies prior to 2009 referenced in the returned papers were included. Additional relevant studies from JTI databases were also added. In the Supplementary Methods flowchart, initially 2301 references were found. 33 were finally included from this source. However, 31 papers were included by reference and 58 from the JTI-database. The majority of cited papers were included without standardized search criteria. Introduction: The authors state that “It is already understood that nicotine is not a major contributing factor to the diseases associated with tobacco smoking“ referring to ( Benowitz et al ., 1998 ; Gottlieb Zeller, 2017 ; Royal College of Physicians, 2016 ). Gottlieb et al . is a short commentary, itself not referring to any data supporting this statement. It states however "Nicotine is, however, responsible for getting smokers addicted to cigarette smoking in the first place - usually while they are children or young adults and their brains are still developing - and keeping them addicted long-term". As mentioned before, this is omitted in the entire work. Benowitz et al. is a very good review on nicotine research published 1998. A more recent publication would be feasible. The Royal College of Physicians states "The safety of NRT products, which have typically been used for days or weeks in the context of an attempt to quit smoking, is well established …. with no evidence of any increase in the risk of heart attack, stroke or death". The introduction, stating that "it is already understood that nicotine is not a major contributing factor” is in my opinion not supported by the referenced articles. “Extensive analysis into nicotine as a pharmacological molecule has already been carried out”. In the listed references, West et al. and Baraona et al. did not carry out any investigations on nicotine as a pharmacological molecule. Acute nicotine toxicity The authors compare the ingested dose of 60 mg to the transdermally applied dose of 64 mg. The line “(interestingly higher than the “lethal” dose, although not ingested)” is obsolete as the routes of nicotine administration lead to completely different serum-nicotine-levels. Cardiovascular effects In the end the authors state “Although there are immediate pharmacological effects of nicotine on cardiovascular parameters, there is little evidence to suggest that there is an increase in risk to long-term cardiovascular health as a result of nicotine exposure from either NRT or e-cigarettes.” That final statement may clearly be misread as no long-term studies (longer than 10 years of sole e-cigarette or NRT use) exist. In several paragraphs the authors discuss the effects of Swedish snus – to discuss long-term nicotine effects. Indeed several important studies suggest that long-term snus use may be associated with higher mortality when developing cardiovascular disease, the development of diabetes and endothelial dysfunction 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 . Especially the study by Arefalk et al . (2014) 3 needs to be addressed. Thrombosis, inflammation and atherosclerosis The role of nicotine in the propagation of atherosclerosis and diabetic retinopathy should be discussed more thoroughly 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 . Additionally, a summary of this topic should be added at the end of this paragraph. Pregnancy and offspring Effects of snus use and pregnancy should be discussed as well. For example: 10 . 