The subcellular distribution of the proteome is a very important determinant of cell function and therefore the ability to analyse subcellular protein localisation is vital for studying cell biology and regulation. Consequently, technical developments that facilitate the analysis of how the proteome is distributed between cell compartments are of great value to both the proteomics and molecular cell biology research communities. Bioconductor is also a fantastic source of tools that can be used to analyse ‘omics’ datasets, hence further additions to this toolbox are always welcome and of value. Here the authors provide a detailed workflow in Bioconductor that enables the convenient Bayesian analysis of spatial proteomics data. The explanations of the models provided by the authors are user friendly and allow also non-bioinformaticians to understand clearly the mechanics of the different methods. The suggestions provided relating to default parameters for the models are also very welcome. Overall, I view this as a timely and very useful contribution for the community that will be well received and of genuine value. I note below a few specific points that the authors should address. Specific Points: I was initially unable to load either pRoloc or pRolocdata on R and therefore could not follow any of the examples provided. I had to upgrade to a new version of R to resolve this issue. The authors should specify the R version compatibility required. Line 1: Remove one ‘the’ 3rd page 5 paragraph, second sentence is disconnected. Example dataset uses iTRAQ, which means the data will have false positives all across The authors should explain/justify their assertion that their Method is independent of the isotope labelling method because TMT and iTRAQ are expected to provide different challenges? It would be helpful for the Gelman diagnostic to suggest minimum a number of chains for MCMC - Suggestion for an ideal number of chains for a medium range desktop computer would be useful too “Trace for Chain 2 4 have clear jumps” This is for figure 7 - This sounds imprecise; hard to spot and replicate. Also, I do not see the “clear jumps” the authors refer to – can this be clarified? Suggesting default priors for the Bayesian analysis is very useful. However, it would be good to show the visual consequences of changing S0 from beta0 of 1 to beta0 of 0.5 The suggestion by the authors that it is likely that 16.7% of proteins are outliers needs to be justified. The use of Shannon entropy to focus on proteins with multiple localisations is an interesting approach that could be discussed further. 