The manuscript by Smith et al. explores the earliest stage of influenza infection on epithelial cells, specifically ciliated airway epithelium cells. They use striking confocal microscopy and high-speed video microscopy to visualise influenza-cilia interaction. In addition, they present a novel method of inoculating airway cells with influenza, which aims to better replicate presumed in vivo virus transmission. The lower level of cytokine responses in the non-infected control samples, using the aerosol method compared to liquid immersion, hint that this method may reduce responses elicited from immersion rather than infection itself. I anticipate this novel inoculation method will be invaluable in further studies. The report is well written, and all data are explained in sufficient detail and presented well. All source data is accounted for and accessible to the reader. I have answered ‘partly’ to the question - are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results – due to one point that I think requires some clarification if possible. I note the motility index for the aerosol method (both control and aerosol) was considerably lower than those of the liquid method. Is this normal variation for the ALI cultures? In addition, I note that for the controls of the aerosol model the motility index significantly reduces from time point 0 to 24hrs. This is not addressed in the manuscript and the results section only references the motility of the cells from the liquid method. If I have understood correctly, the aerosol method does not show a change in motility index compared to the control as both show a reduction? Also could the authors explain why the dyskinesia index was not done for time point 0 for the aerosol method? There is just one minor point which is the following sentence, which I think just needs amending for clarity. “This could indicate that liquid immersion the membrane removes or dilutes key feedback mechanisms that exist to regulate expression of these chemokines (or the carrier fluid in greater amounts is more toxic or liquid immersion means they are no longer exposed to air).” 