The study of Landa and others aims to understand how food digestion process affects circulating immune complexes, CIC. Since the amount of immune complexes increases in biological fluids as the result of various disorders, including autoimmune diseases, viral and bacterial infections and malignancies, the appearance and precipitation of the particles need more careful investigation, particularly as applied to processes of normal physiology. The idea of the study was to measure the content of CICs after food digestion, process believed to increase the particles’ number in plasma. The authors employed the method of dynamic light scattering (DLS) to analyze the size of CIC particles, and the accuracy of this method was proved in studies of ICs from rats and humans after food ingestion. To identify Ig participating in CIC assembly Sepharose microspheres covered with Protein A were used, and both methods allowed to estimate the dynamics of CIC accumulation and lowering in blood. Using this combination of techniques the authors identified the fraction of particles with the size of 200-300 nm as food CIC. The authors stated that most of CIC in a process of digestion appear in blood from intestine and then they are quickly and completely utilized by the liver. In contrary, in humans the accumulation and removal of CICs from blood occurs more slowly than in rodents and takes approximately 12 hours. The cause of such delay is explained by authors by an incomplete digestion of larger molecular structures persisting in food. To define the spectra of Igs in CIC the authors used monoclonal antibodies generated in house. The changes in Ig classes during CIC utilization lasting 7-9 hours after ingestion were strong and it was found that instead of initial predominance of IgGs IgA become prevalent at the end of that period. This change may be hypothetically associated with the necessity of maintaining of immune system in activated state after food consumption. The study of Landa et al evokes several questions and one of the latter concerns the experimental approval of dependence of CIC content and composition on meal volume and/or composition. To conclude, the authors made a big work; they implemented a novel technique, DLS, for the analysis of immune complexes and obtained interesting results concerning particularly the long-living CIC in humans resulting from food consumption. 