The short commentary ‘The underactive bladder: detection and diagnosis’ discusses the topic from the perspective of symptoms, epidemiology, pathogenesis, and diagnostic aspects. The paragraphs on diagnostic aspects are a summary of urodynamic testing, more specifically: pressure-flow analysis. I assume that the words ‘…are typically associated with…’ in the introduction and the words ‘…typical presentation…’ in the signs and symptoms section, refer to the historical beliefs of professionals. The last paragraph of the signs and symptoms section mentions that there is a debate on whether there is a symptom complex associated with detrusor underactivity (the underactive bladder syndrome?). I agree with this statement and careful reading of the working definition cited from reference 2 in the commentary makes it obvious that the working definition of (the) bladder outflow obstruction (syndrome) would be exactly identical, if it was introduced nowadays. The elements of the working definition for UAB (as a signs and symptoms syndrome) are equal to those considered, both currently and traditionally, very relevant in men with benign prostatic enlargement 1 . I conclude that the underactive bladder syndrome as it is suggested here is not specific, like all LUTD-syndromes, and that, indeed, underactive detrusor (contraction during voiding) is a condition only assessable with a pressure-flow study. There is some observational clinical data on how the detrusor compensates for the growing prostate and the–by consequence–increase in bladder outflow obstruction, in addition to the animal studies referred to in the commentary, to explain the pathophysiology 2 . With the perspective of DU, this clinical study may allow two interpretations; first: the detrusor of aging men increases (maximum) power to compensate for the growing prostate and second: some detrusors are better able to compensate than others. The validity of the clinical observation 2 was subsequently confirmed in a canine experiment 3 . If relevant neurogenic abnormalities are excluded on the basis of history and clinical examination, myogenic factors remain as the cause of detrusor underactivity, and based on biologic variance, some detrusors will be stronger than others and some will be better able to conquer challenges. The search for relevant amino-acids or other molecules will be important here if we want to discover ways to improve the symptomatically weak detrusors. Urodynamic diagnosis of detrusor contraction work or power during voiding is not yet standardized, and the commentary gives a neat overview of parameters that may prove to be useful. Especially objective parameters that will demonstrate predictive value and responsiveness to management will become relevant in the future. Cooperation with the patient is necessary to obtain a representative pressure-flow test, and the autonomic voiding reflex requires parasympathetic dominance in a–for the patient involved–stressful situation. This is even more important when the patient has a ‘bashful bladder’. I consider it valuable that this is introduced here in this context. Based on the relevance of this dysfunction, that will exist in a continuum from ‘low grade’ to ‘very troublesome‘, the new ICS Good Urodynamic Practices and Terms (that will be available in 2016) will introduce the terms (or diagnoses) ‘situational inability to void’ and ‘situational inability to void as usual’. Whether ambulatory urodynamics provides a reliable method to obtain a pressure-flow test remains speculative however, because of the lack of evidence. References 1. Abrams P, Chapple C, Khoury S, Roehrborn C, et al.: Evaluation and treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms in older men. J Urol . 2009; 181 (4): 1779-87 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Rosier PF, de Wildt MJ, de la Rosette JJ, Debruyne FM, et al.: Analysis of maximum detrusor contraction power in relation to bladder emptying in patients with lower urinary tract symptoms and benign prostatic enlargement. J Urol . 1995; 154 (6): 2137-42 PubMed Abstract 3. Lecamwasam HS, Sullivan MP, Cravalho EG, Yalla SV: Detrusor internal and external work in relation to passive urethral resistance in a canine model of the lower urinary tract. Neurourol Urodyn . 1996; 15 (5): 529-43; discussion 544 PubMed Abstract | 3.0.CO;2-H">Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Faculty Reviews are commissioned and written by members of the prestigious Faculty Opinions Faculty , and are edited as a service to our readers. In order to make these reviews as comprehensive and accessible as possible, we seek the reviewers input before publication. The reviewers names and any additional comments they may have are published alongside the review, as is usual on F1000Research. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Rosier PFWM. Reviewer Report For: The underactive bladder: detection and diagnosis [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (F1000 Faculty Rev):102 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7915.r12061 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-102/v1#referee-response-12061 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Yoshimura N. Reviewer Report For: The underactive bladder: detection and diagnosis [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 (F1000 Faculty Rev):102 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7915.r12060 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-102/v1#referee-response-12060 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 25 Jan 2016 Naoki Yoshimura , Department of Urology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7915.r12060 I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an ... Continue reading READ ALL 