 Overall: This is a very valuable document providing an update on legislative and access policies and programs for orphan drugs/rare diseases in Latin America. It is helpful to see all of this brought together. The following comments are provided to suggest ways in which the data may be further analyzed and discussed to provide a more fulsome understanding and implications for the future for rare diseases/orphan drugs in this region. The appropriateness of the title: The title is somewhat misleading in that the role of globalization is not really addressed, that is, there is limited demonstration of how the various legislative, regulatory, and assessment policies are influenced by countries referencing each other or global standards. Perhaps most notable commonality is the similarity to the EU prevalence definition for orphan drug/rare disease. Indeed the uniqueness of each countrys approach and what is contained in legislation or other policy appears to be grounded in their healthcare policies, system, infrastructure, and priorities, beyond rare. Abstract as an adequate summary of the article: The abstract provides an overarching statement about strides in five countries but does not really summarize the information presented. Nor does it summarize broadly the strides being made, or the challenges in market access. Rather, there are statements about the need for and potential benefit of adopting similar strategies and need for implementation of targeted methods, which are undoubtedly valid points but not driven by the data provided about each countrys approach, success, and limitations. Why would harmonized strategies be beneficial? If there is a comprehensive explanation of study design, methods and analysis, and their suitability to the investigation: This is mostly a descriptive study and, as such, seems to source the information from the legislation and policies in each country. There is no reference to how the information has been validated as to the actual implementation or the progress made in adopting these. Nevertheless, one can accept on face validity the up-to-date information about the status of orphan drug/rare disease legislation, policies, strategies, and practices in each of the five countries referenced. As such, the documentation is very useful. It would be useful if there were more analysis, which might shed some light on how these approaches are similar, and how they are different, and what each strategy implies for the healthcare providers and patients in each country. There are also rather loose transitions between drug legislation and market access and policies and practices targeting other areas of healthcare, such as newborn screening, comprehensive care, and social services. In Mexico and to some degree Argentina, legislation appears to target orphan drugs and access while other countries like Colombia and Brazil have legislation and programs that cover other areas of healthcare. It is less clear the degree to which Chile and Peru are addressing healthcare, including diagnosis and prevention, as well as drug access. It would be interesting to explore how and why these differences have occurred at this time. It would be useful to understand the degree to which each country does a complete regulatory review of a submitted orphan drug or relies upon review done by other countries. Several have referenced HTA specifically for rare diseases/orphan drugs; is there sufficient information to comment on whether these approaches are unique or collaborative. Is HTAnetLA taking a role (following the Roundtable), or is each countrys HTA likely to following unique strategies? Whether the conclusions are balanced and justified on the basis of the results: It would be helpful to have more discussion of the information presented here that could lead to the proposal that harmonization and collaborative approaches are valuable and feasible. It may be helpful to use the BIO recommendations (presented at the end) as a framework for assessing each countrys current status, implications for impact, and proposals for each country for next steps .