This is a well written study aimed to measure correlation between country-level sexually transmissible infection (STI) screening intensity in MSM, and country-level incidence of Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) and Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) in MSM in European countries. The study sought to address a hypothesised association between risk of reinfection by unscreened cases and the intensity of screening in those populations. This hypothesis is consistent with no prior studies having detected negative correlation between screening and prevalence of STIs. While the study is ultimately unable to draw conclusions on the association between screening intensity and prevalence, its importance lies in potentially motivating discussion and further examination of this topic. One of the most important points it illustrates is that findings based on cross-sectional data such as these are open to a number of interpretations, and hence motivate more thorough analyses using longitudinal data. In part the reason for the fairly limited conclusions and presentation of a range of interpretations of the findings lies with limitations of the ecological source data. For example, the source data used for incidence estimation should be interpreted cautiously. The ECDC estimates cited are, precisely, national-level notification rates for the general male population rather than incidence rates for the respective MSM population. This is problematic for several reason. Firstly, the association between increased screening intensity and notification rates has been established by previous studies and estimates of incidence based directly on notification rates need to be adjusted accordingly to reflect this. 1 , 2 And, secondly, it is not made clear what effect the use of general male population ECDC estimates rather than MSM specific estimates has on results. Although authors suggest that the ECDC estimates are strongly weighted by MSM, this statement is not supported. While MSM are disproportionately represented in NG/CT notifications, it is still probable that the strength of correlation between screening in this population and general incidence rates could be reduced substantially given that MSM comprise a very low (7%) proportion of the male population. In part to address these limitations (“To deal with this bias and the fact that the ECDC NG/CT incidence estimates do not provide incidence estimates for MSM” [P5]), the correlation between screening and prevalence estimates in MSM from STI clinics was also evaluated. However, this analysis is relatively limited, and we are not sure that it addresses these concerns successfully. Specifically, the prevalence results do not improve the interpretability of the incidence results. Also, they are based on complete results from only 4 countries (2 of which are not included in the incidence comparison) which is likely to limit the levels of correlation capable of being determined. To overcome the limitations of this ecological study, the author concludes that randomised controlled trials are urgently required. However, as this would require abandoning STI screening for some of the participants, such a trial would be ethically dubious and contrary to current clinical guidelines. Alternatively, longitudinal administrative data can be subject to retrospective cohort analysis. Using this technique, we were able to determine a true national increase in the incidence of NG in MSM but, after controlling for test frequency, this could be explained by increasing partner numbers and condomless anal sex. 3 However, the statistical analyses in Kenyon’s study are appropriate and robust. More complex methods may have been inappropriate for the broad ecological source data used. Appropriately, the conclusions drawn are careful and, in that regard, supported by the results. This study should proceed to being indexed for the reason that it motivates discussion and should motivate more rigorous research into these growing epidemics. 