I read this manuscript several times with great interest. Immediately the reader gets the impression of a carefully conducted and complex investigation. The topic is a case study of ecophysiology as you find it in vivo , in situ in nature. The title alone informs the reader that a complex multiparametric ecological experiment is presented. The areas of this investigation were forests in southwestern China with contrasting habitats, in the Guizhou Province called Tianlongshan and Daxiagu. Some of the main contrasts are listed and compared below: Altitude above sea level: 1200m (Tianlongshan) and 900m (Daxiagu) Karst: Well-developed secondary forest with a humid monsoon climate (Tianlongshan) and severely degraded mixed forest with warm temperatures (Daxiagu) Precipitation: 1398 mm/year (Tianlongshan) and 1100mm/year (Daxiagu) Rain during growth season: 60% to 70% (Tianlongshan) and 83% (Daxiagu) Vegetation: Well developed secondary evergreen and deciduous (Tianlongshan) and secondary deciduous trees and shrubs (Daxiagu) Branches were cut from both places and used for measurements such as gas exchanges (CO 2 ), stomatal conductance, transpiration and water use efficiency (WUE), on new fully expanded leaves. Many in vivo in situ fast fluorescence transients were collected and analyzed according to the equations of the JIP test, which reveals the bioenergetics constellation of the samples. It is seldom that a research team is able to use so many quite different techniques on the same plant material within a short time span and outside in the forest. All techniques are precisely presented in the manuscript and the execution of the measurements appears to have been done very carefully. Several years ago I had the opportunity to accompany a research group of the same institute as a guest for another project, to make such measurements in the forest. I became aware of the high professionalism of experimentation which was invested to get the experimental data recorded. E.g. black socks or sock-shaped towels were used to slip over branches on the trees to guarantee dark adaptation in a non-invasive way during the daytime. In short, I can say that the investigation is technically very complex, however has been executed with a lot of skill and imagination. I have seen the comments of the previous two reviewers. I fully agree with the scientific statements given by the reviewers who have pointed out the high quality of the data. For some logically understandable reasons one reviewer has given the article a ‘Not approved’ rating. Formally that reviewer is right, that some comparisons bypass strict rigor due to the chosen forest constellation which we cannot change. Most probably there is no better place available for performing these experiments in that area. For ecological investigations we are often forced to select a good site, but even so not all parameters may be optimal. Nevertheless the challenge is to make valid deductions of a non-complete or non-perfect data set. My saying is: A Scientist is allowed to do whatever he likes, as long he is saying what he is doing and how he is doing it. Often even incomplete information provides good hints for a better understanding of the topic. With many repetitions of the measurements and the testing of many samples the authors take care regarding the heterogeneity of the plant material, and minimize the risk of making important errors. My impression is that in the given situation the authors are fully aware about the strong and less strong results or conclusions they are giving in the manuscript. It needs courage, skill and perseverance to do these experiments and to present the experimental data in the form given in this article. It’s an excellent investigation, written in a well balanced form, based on solid data. All these facts together are arguments to conclude that the manuscript deserves to be approved but the authors should take into account some modifications proposed by the reviewers. For better understanding I’m proposing some minor changes at the end of the materials and methods section: The JIP test parameters used in this study can be summarized as follows: As flux ratios or quantum yields expressed as maximal trapping flux ( TR o ) to the reaction center of PS II, or as maximal electron transport flux ( ET o ) between PS II and PS I, or as maximal heat dissipation flux ( DI o ) of PSII per the light flux absorbed ( ABS ) by PS II antenna. As partial and cumulated performances (or so called driving forces DF = log of the performances derived in analogy to the redox potentials . ). Please make the frame of Figure 1 taller, so that the labeling of the ordinates on the graphs is better readable and not squashed. The partial yields or probabilities or performances are based on the functional flux-ratios and can be correlated to the following experimental signals: F P o = TR o /ABS = 1-Fo/Fm = Fv/Fm y E o = ET 0 /TR o = (1-V J ) where V J = (F J – Fo)/(Fm – Fo) is the relative variable fluorescence at the J-step, and the structural ratio: g RC = Chl RC / Chl total = Chl RC / Chl (RC+Antenna) or g RC /(1-g RC ) = Chl RC / Chl Antenna = RC/ABS = 1/ Antenna size of PS II Quantum yield (this means: per absorption ABS) for primary photochemistry : F P o = TR o /ABS Quantum yield for electron transport : F E o = F P o * y E o = ET o / ABS as the probability that a photon absorbed by PS II will move an electron into the electron transport chain further than Qa - . Quantum yield for heat dissipation by PS II: F D o = 1 - F P o = DI o /ABS (please use y E o to distinguish it from y, which you are using for the midday leaf water potential.) The performance index PI ABS , which is responsible for the performance of the electron transport from water to plastoquinone is written as: PI ABS = ((g RC /(1-g RC )) x ((F P o / (1-F P o )) x ((y E o /(1- y E o )) The multi parametric approach to this realistic field study is appreciated and proves that the authors have a good ecological feeling and understanding.