The present study investigates the explicit and implicit attitudes to sexual concurrency in a sample of Belgium and South African students. Explicit attitudes were measured using self-reported items, while implicit attitudes were assessed by means of an Implicit Association Test (IAT). At the explicit level, both groups reported negative attitudes towards sexual concurrency, while at the implicit level, strong implicit preferences for monogamy were found only among Belgian students. No implicit preference between monogamy and multiple partners were indeed observed among South African students. General Comments: The aim of this study is very interesting because it highlights an implicit attitude to sexual concurrency that may underlie the origin of generalized HIV epidemic in South Africa. However, I have some reservations about the methodology, the statistical analysis, and the conclusions that prevent me from supporting the publication of this manuscript in its present form. Abstract Authors state that their results “are compatible with the thesis that differences in implicit attitudes to concurrency play a role in the genesis of generalized HIV epidemics”. Since the present study did not investigate directly the relationship between implicit attitudes and HIV epidemic, I would suggest to be more careful in drawing these conclusions. Introduction On page 3, the authors state: “(ii) if the variation between these two populations involves a difference in behavior of ‘core-groups’ or general population shifts (iii) the correlation between implicit and explicit attitudes to concurrency and reporting that one has engaged in concurrency at both individual and population levels”. What did the authors exactly mean with ‘core-group’? Why is it important to evaluate the correlation between implicit and explicit attitudes at the individual and population levels? I suggest the authors to discuss more in details these points, their rationale and relevance. Methods For the IAT structure and its stimuli, authors refer to one of their previous publications 1 . However, I would recommend the authors to provide a description of the IAT procedure as well as examples of stimuli used in their study, so that readers can better understand this instrument. Statistical analysis Could the authors please provide additional information on how they computed the D-scores? In addition, it would great if the authors could also provide more details on the procedure used for individual and population level analyses. Results The authors state that “there was no difference between C-IAT results by gender in either country (data shown)”. I suggest the authors to report also the relative statistics. Could the authors please provide additional information on how they computed the Cohen’s d scores reported in the results of implicit and explicit attitudes? The r range of explicit measures reported in the text and in Table 2 is different. In the text, it is from 0.13 to 0.58, while in Table 2 it is from 0.08 to 0.58. Please clarify. Discussions Could the authors please clarify the following statement reported on page 6 “If this is the case and this acceptance is causally linked to higher concurrency rates then the distribution of implicit responses to concurrency amongst South African students suggests that population level interventions would be required to address this issue”? The authors state “the C-IAT may constitute an important marker of a population-wide greater tolerance of concurrency which broadly enables higher concurrency rates but that other specific risk factors then determine which individuals will engage in concurrency”. Could they please elaborate on that? Minor comment: I would suggest the authors to read carefully the text as it presents several typos and problems in the grammatical structure. 