Nombela et al. describe in what they claim to be defense mechanisms in trout red blood cells in response to halted replication of VHSV virus. Major comments: The study suffers from the effort to simultaneously answer a few unknowns. Can VHSV infect trout erythrocytes? Does infection by, or exposure to, VHSV virus modify the expression of genes with an anti-virus function? Do those altered gene expression levels have a measurable immune effect (which in this article is measured by the effect on cell line TSS)? In my opinion, the authors show understanding of the complexity of those questions, but do not take sufficiently control of them. I am not satisfied with any of the story lines. My main concerns are that it is unclear for many of the presented data (i) whether the enhanced expression of immune molecules are due to RBC infection or due to other stimulations of the RBCs by the virus preparation, (ii) whether the changes in immune molecule expression are due to stimulation by virus preparation or due to time of culturing, and (iii) whether the expression levels of immune molecules reach meaningful levels or are just variation within what could be considered as “non-functional background levels”. At the very positive side, the authors addressed an important question, and delivered an honest and elaborate piece of work. Therefore, I will not reject the paper, but I do request the addition of experimental data that in my opinion are necessary for better interpretation of the currently presented data in relation to actual VHS disease. The authors should infect rainbow trout cells which they deem (sufficiently representative of) the natural host cells of VHSV, and use the UV-inactivated supernatant for stimulation of trout RBCs and compare the effect on RBC immune molecule expression with the effect after RBC incubation with VHSV. Alternatively, they can use inactivated serum of VHSV-infected trout. My guess is that the released cytokines have a much stronger effect on those erythrocytes than the viruses to which the erythrocytes are hardly receptive. The authors should also use those supernatants of natural host cells, or sera from infected trout, for stimulation of TSS cells, and compare the effects quantitatively with those after stimulation with the supernatant of VHSV-exposed erythrocytes. The above requested set of experiments (or modifications thereof, depending on the preferences of the authors) should help to quantitatively estimate the direct effect of VHSV on erythrocytes, and the effect of VHSV-stimulated erythrocytes on other cells, in comparison with other routes of immune stimulation during VHSV infection. Detailed comments: Why did the authors use an MOI of 1? Even if such MOI is achieved, only half of the cells are expected to be infected. In this case the actual MOI for red blood cells probably was far below 1, because the MOI was calculated based on infection of the receptive EPC cells. How were the viruses prepared? It seems that they were generated on EPC cells, but the details are important. Namely, other than the viruses, the infected cells also release cytokines which may have a cross-species effect. The only presented data that I find convincing for that red blood cells were infected were the experiments shown in Fig. 1E and Fig. 1F, namely after pretreatment with neuraminidase (Fig. 1E) and infection with an MOI=100 (Fig. 1G; even in that case only 1/6 cells shows infection). However, none of the experiments on immune molecule expression was done under those conditions. In the experiments, expression levels are compared with those of “control cells”. In some cases those control cells are not specified, while in other cases they are said to be the T=0 cells. However, this does not take into account that also the time of culture can have a significant effect on gene and protein expression levels. Most of the expression level effects reported in this article are quite small (e.g. from very low to only two-fold higher), and a possible “culture-time effect” should have been excluded. The introduction should give detailed descriptions of what is known or unknown (i) about natural target cells and receptors used by VHSV for infection, and (ii) about fish erythrocytes and to what extent they have a normal metabolism. The introduction should also give an indication of the abundance of erythrocytes, which is relevant because many small amounts of cytokine could make a big amount, and also because any “intelligent” virus will do its best to avoid interaction with this abundant and for the virus non-productive cell type. In the title, shouldn’t it be “in response to halted replication of VHS virus.”? In the abstract and in the text: “after 6 hours postexposure” is double. In the abstract, in the sentence “Co-culture assays of RBCs with TSS”, it should be made clear that those RBCs were stimulated with UV-inactivated VHSV. In the introduction, a number of speculations are presented as facts: Fish poikilothermic nature results in a delayed antigen affinity maturation, memory and lymphocyte proliferation. Fish have unique phagocytic B lymphocytes. (later than the reference, also mammalian B cells with phagocytic ability have been found) Fish have stronger innate immune responses. To compensate for those immune deficiencies, fish have unique phagocytic B lymphocytes and stronger innate immune responses. I don’t understand the “Thus” in the sentence “Thus, fish RBCs generate a wide variety of immune-related gene transcripts when viruses highly replicate inside them”. In Fig. 1A, how was the PCR value for N gene determined at T=0? Was that before or after addition of the viruses, and could the difference between T=0 and the other time points be explained by amplification from RNA in virions? Fig. 1B seems to argue against the assumption that the RNAs amplified in Fig. 1A were derived from an infection (see also my previous point). In addition, although the relative comparison between the RTG2 and RBC results as presented in Fig. 1B should be OK, it is unclear to me from the materials and methods section how the absolute quantitative statement “However, a ratio of 2 was observed in RBCs, compared to the ratio of 8 found in RTG-2 cells, at 1 and 3 hpe (Figure 1B)” can be made. I am not convinced that Fig. 1D is evidence for replication between days 3 and 6, since the titer goes down 5000-fold from day 0 to day 3, and then stays very low. The authors should make clearer whether they feel that the small increase in virus titer between days 3 and 6 is only suggestive of virus replication, or that such replication is supported by proper statistics. As for the NH4Cl effect observed in Fig. 1D. Can a chemical effect of NH4CL on the integrity of virions stuck to the outside of RBCs be excluded from explaining the results? Furthermore, I would like the authors to elaborate, possibly in the introduction section, on endocytosis in regard to erythrocytes and VHSV infection. Could it be that only immature erythrocytes are expected to display efficient endocytosis, and might the Fig. 1F result be explained by differences in erythrocyte subpopulations? I don’t understand the sentence “As a result, the VHSV RNA inside RBCs was increased about ten times at 3 hpe”, because the increase seems to be from around 0.6 to 3.4, which is closer to a six-fold increase. For discussion of the Fig. 1F result, the authors should explain the intracellular organization of RBCs (which are unusual cells), and where VHSV is expected. The sentence “along the cytoplasm and nucleus” can’t be understood, and gives the impression that the authors do not know where to expect (normal) cytoplasm in RBCs. Although they observe “along the nucleus”, which I think is the correct observation, the authors discuss the possibility of N protein being present in the nucleus. It is not wrong to present that as a possibility to partially explain their observations, but the authors should declare clearer that their observations do not necessitate that N protein is present in the nucleus. To superficial readers it now looks as if they claim detection of N protein in the RBC nucleus. In Fig. 3 legend, the B and C order should be altered. (writing error) were co-culture with were co-cultured with In the Transwell system, the authors tried to get rid of RBC-attached virions with a single non-stringent wash. I doubt that such was sufficient for complete removal, and in the following 24 hours of co-incubation some virions or viral products may have diffused to the TSS cells. As for Fig. 4. Is it OK to assume linear regression based on only two time points? Wouldn’t it be more proper to indicate all individual observations with dots? What is a 0-fold increase? In Figs. 4A and 4C, all three lines need explanation. I can’t trust the claims based on Fig. 8. In Fig. 8A, why were protein amounts loaded in the Control and VHSV lanes so different? I don’t believe that densiometry analysis technique for Western blot bands is sufficiently sensitive, especially not if comparing different ranges of band densities, to reliably claim an about 15% difference as done in Fig. 8B. In addition, for densiometry analysis, the Fig. 8A Actin blot is a horrible result because only half of the lane was properly exposed to the Western treatment. If the Fig. 8A result truly is a “representative” result, as claimed by the authors, the Fig. 8 based conclusions can’t be taken seriously. Trout erythrocytes are known to express MHC class I (Dijkstra et al. (2003) 1 ; Sarder et al . (2003) 2 ). Because MHC class I is a molecule upregulated during virus infection, it would be interesting to see the effect on its expression in RBCs by exposure to VHSV. Likewise, and especially because Nombela et al. discuss the proteasome, it would be interesting to see the regulation of the genes for the immuno-proteasome specific subunits. 