 Is the topic of the opinion article discussed accurately in the context of the current literature? This is a welcome and much needed addition to the dialogue on improving the quality of conducting and reporting economic evaluations and HTA internationally. Whilst the linkage is made well between the need for an explicit perspective as part of a robust high quality economic evaluation, one opportunity could be to explicitly state the importance of a well defined and robust decision problem as a fundamental to being able to define an appropriate perspective for an EE. Whilst this may be clear for those familiar with the guidelines, however the intended audience may not be familiar with the concept of scoped decision problems. The section on the history of perspectives in methodological guidelines for conduction EE covers well the main evolution in guidelines. One potential enhancement could be through a discussion on why it took 20+ years for the perspective of an EE to be included explicitly as a characteristic in guidelines. The article is clear on the justification for an explicit perspective, and why broader is not always better when it comes to 'societal perspective'. However, one opportunity for the article could be to look at the misuse or misunderstanding of concepts and language between policy makers and the technical EE analysts when it comes to the perspective on an evaluation. For example, policy decision makers may be supportive of using a 'societal perspective' for an economic evaluation in a context for which this may not be appropriate, yet actually be conflating this concept of the 'societal perspective' with undertaking an inclusive, stakeholder engagement strategy in the health decision making process. This conflation, is similar to the use by policy decision makers of terms such as 'cost-effective' of an intervention, even when this is not directly linked to the concept of opportunity cost, or the use of a context specific CE threshold, creating as a weird consequence the dichotomy of something being deemed 'cost-effective' yet 'unaffordable'. Are all factual statements correct and adequately supported by citations? All factual statements are correct and supported by citations. Paragraph 7 could strengthen the assertion that ‘Some LMICs, where out-of-pocket costs are significant select a societal perspective though very few LMICs have a track record of using EE systematically’ through references to LMICs with high OOPs, or LMICs track record of EE use in decision making Are arguments sufficiently supported by evidence from the published literature? All arguments made in the article are supported by evidence from the published literature. In paragraph 3, the assertion that 'a good study will be, therefore, explicit about its perspective’ could be enhanced through using terms such as 'high quality', 'economically rigorous' or 'comprehensive' as this can then be referenced back to the principles of the iDSI reference case. Are the conclusions drawn balanced and justified on the basis of the presented arguments? The conclusions drawn are balanced and justified on the basis of presented arguments. Dependent on the intended audience for the article, the language could be simplified from 'context-free' and 'context-dependent' requirements, and instead restructure the conclusions for both the EE analyst (e.g. 1. advise, assist and point out likely consequences to decision maker 2) Not to engage in advocacy of any single perspective), and conclusions for the policy decision maker (1. adopt an explicit perspective in an EE 2. Be explicit in the reasons behind the choice of the perspective etc..) Minor additional comments: Table 2 displays payer, health care sector, societal as discrete categories – Does this double count those countries where multiple perspectives may be recommended in guidelines? Or are they given one discrete category? – For clarity it might be good to include a 'multiple' category to the table For standardization and clarity, the language under column 'perspective' in Table 1 could be greater aligned. E.g: ‘Costs: Health care payer (government + patients); outcomes: society’ ‘Health care sector….’ ‘In the reference case, the perspective should be that of the publicly funded health care payer.’ ‘Health technology assessment (HTA) in Indonesia is expected to use societal perspective.’ Last bullet point on conclusions is repeated 