This study aimed to explore the genetic variation of two common southern African snails of the genus Afrolittorina. The main finding of this study is that intraspecific variations of nuclear 28S rDNA sequences are higher than such value from the mitochondrial gene in the snail populations. However, many points need to concern before acceptance. I listed the major points for revising the manuscript. Introduction part, the introduction part seems to focus on the selection process in the population to increase/decrease the genetic variation accumulation in the mt genome. The authors did not emphasize on the research questions; for example, Why did you want to study in two snails of the genus Afrolittorina? Why did you use the 28S rDNA as another genetic marker? What is the research question or hypothesis of this study? What was the reason behind deciding to study on A. aficana and A. knysnaensis ? Finally, what is the main objective of this work? Whether you aimed to study the genetic differentiation between species of the snail based on different kinds of markers or study on population genetic, the content of this study could not support both objectives. For example, if the authors want to present on comparing the genetic variations that came out from the COI gene and 28S rDNA gene, the analysis used in this study was not suitable, the haplotype network analysis may not fit enough for the genetic variations you want to get. If the author wants to analyze the population genetically, the weak point is the numbers of the snails collected? And why the authors decided to collect from the various sites? What is the hypothesis behind your sampling? I don't understand why the authors have to analyze the molecular clock by comparing different originated markers like COI from one of the protein-coding genes in the mitochondrial genome and LSU (RNA-specifying gene) from the nuclear genome. Of course, the rate of evolution acting on these two genomes is different. If the authors considered in Figure 1, you would realize that 28S rDNA is not good enough for species discrimination between A. aficana and A. knysnaensis comparing with the COI gene. Only 2 nucleotide differences between those two snail species, while the nucleotide variation in the intra-specific level of A. knysnaensis is higher than that. The authors didn't discuss the evidence in snails with regards to variation, which is the point that showed in the result. There is no analysis to estimate either positive or negative selection, but the authors discussed it as the condition forced on the snail populations. It becomes over speculation. The title of this study should mention snail species because the genetic variation patterns are various depending on the groups of organisms. 