Using techniques published previously, the authors measure the number of dauer larvae present at food patch exhaustion for a collection of Caenorhabditis briggsae recombinant lines. The dauer phenotype results are very noisy (as observed previously), but after data transformation quantitative trait loci (QTL) are detected using composite interval mapping. These results suggest that some regions of the C. briggsae genome confer differences in dauer formation, but more analysis needs to be performed to know more definitively. I would soften the abstract language ( e.g. "strong support") to reflect the uncertainty in the results. Given the variability of the phenotype measurements and the small number of recombinant lines, I am surprised about the QTL results. I would have expected no QTL to be detected, as observed in the untransformed data. It would be nice to see some more analyses, including the following: What is the broad-sense heritability of this trait for these strains? It would be good to know how much of the trait variance you might expect to map to genomic regions in this study. What are the results of a non-parametric linkage mapping? Composite interval mapping has many caveats. Are these QTL robust to mapping technique? The significance threshold seems low given the allele frequency skews present in this mapping population. Please explain more about how that threshold was determined and how the skews were controlled. Can you plot the RIL phenotypes before and after transformation so we can assess how well the transformation affected the high variability of the assay? If the detected QTL represent expected amounts of the genetic variance, are robust to mapping technique, and are significant with respect to the known allele frequency skews in this mapping population, then I believe this article offers preliminary evidence that some genomic regions confer differences in dauer larvae formation. These results suggest genomic regions to test for causality in the trait of interest, including regions that could lead to conserved interspecific variation between C. elegans and C. briggsae .