Kalbfleisch et al. present an interesting article on identification and characterization of an 11kb APC promoter deletion from whole genome sequencing (WGS) data. The design of the study, the methods used and the presentation of the results are presented in a conclusive and way suitable to the investigation. They have analyzed the WGS data only for the APC and MUTYH locus and identified the deletion by visual inspection of the data. The identified deletion is confirmed and breakpoints identified with sanger sequencing. The deletion is also found to be identical to the previously identified deletions by Snow et al. and Lin et al., and they all descent from a common founder. Minor points for revision and comments: When a coding DNA reference sequence is used the following recommendations can be followed according to HGVS; the coding DNA reference sequence should be complete and preferably derived from the RefSeq database (format NM_033337.2) . In general the longest transcripts are used, and for the MUTYH gene this is NM_001128425.1 (16 exon 549 aa). It would be more appropriate to at least name the variants found according to the NM reference sequence that has been used in table 4. For example the variant rs3219484 if the NM_001128425.1 would have been used the variant would preferable be named NM_001128425.1:c.64AG, p.Val22Met. For the APC gene NM_000038.5 is usually used. In the tables and text when discussing genomic coordinates, the genome build used would be good too include for example (GRCh37/hg19). When discussing MLPA, it would be appropriate to mentioned the versions of the MLPA kit, like P043 (version C1), this is a common way to present which kit has been used, a link to the document describing the assay is not necessary. Probes for the APC promoter 1B were included in the MLPA kit in 2011. In the result section findings of missense and nonsense variants in coding region and small indels are mentioned, what about variants in splice acceptor or donor-sites are these included in the analyses done? It would be nice to mention this in the text and also in the tables (2 and 4) if anyones are found as these variants are important and often constitute disease-causing mutations. Regarding the deleteriousness of the variants found how was this interpreted? It would be nice to mentioned which databases and/or prediction tools has been used since all variants in dbSNP are not benign. I would be recommended to use several prediction tools like for example SIFT, Polyphen-2, Mutation taster, Condel and Combined Annotation-Dependent Depletion (CADD) among others for missense interpretation and also looking at conservation between species.Other important tools used for interpretation of variants found are databases were variants are reported and sometimes also classified often in a 1-5 scale (1 is benign and 5 pathogenic). The InSiGHT database ( http://insight-group.org/variants/database/ ) is commonly used for variants in coloncancer genes, where the APC and MUTYH gene can be found among others, clinvar and HGMD professional (Human Genome Mutation Database) are also databases too use. Information about the minor allele frequency of the variant found can also be found in ExAc (Exome Aggregation Consortium) and ESP (Exome Sequencing Project) and can be included when reporting variants. This deletion was found by manual inspection of the region were the reads maps further apart than expect and by looking at the soft-clipped bases as well as identifying the region having LOH. It would be interesting to discuss the limitation with this visual method regarding sizes and type of rearrangement that can be detected. Some discussion comparing (pros and cons) regarding this method with different algorithms methods like BreakDancer (read-pair methods) and others including read-depth methods and split reads methods for example would also be valuable for an interesting discussion useful for readers trying to find methods to analyze for these types of mutations. 