Genetic testing is increasingly considered in clinical grounds, and may accelerate as payers approve specific applications. The clinical validity is built on substantial evidence for pathogenicity of individual variants, in particular those that have been vetted by expert panels, and exceptionally, endorsed by guidelines. This parsimonious implementation of genetic information in the clinics (evidence, expert support, guidelines and reimbursement) is difficult because current techniques provide large amount of information that is incompletely assessed. Thus, only a small proportion of known variants are confidently classified and the community and corporate efforts aim at creating standards at the same time that a legacy of genetic variant interpretation is being updated. Prime among the efforts is ClinVar, a public database with information on over 300,000 variants. ClinVar uses various approaches to classify variants on the basis of the quality of evidence; and by doing so, exposes the number of entries that are conflicting, or just of unknown significance. ClinVar creates a platform that supports the ongoing classification and correction of errors. Clinotator, described in this present publication, aims at highlighting entries that may need reappraisal. It does it primarily for batch analysis of variants or genes. This is achieved by building weights – mostly through heuristics – around key factors that contribute to misclassification: the age of the submission and last review of evidence, the standing of the submitter. The program results in a metric of pathogenicity and an alert for the need of reclassification. Calibration of the metrics and weights is achieved by using subsets of ClinVar variants with established criteria. Clinotator adds to other efforts to improve the quality of annotation, most notably ClinVar Miner ( https://clinvarminer.genetics.utah.edu ). However it is important to underscore that other criteria, beyond the age of record, review of evidence and submitter, are important in the overall effort – in particular the use of disease prevalence 1 , and the consideration for penetrance of variants 2 . Given the current emphasis on machine learning in genetics and genomics, it is conceivable that a more comprehensive modeling of evidence and of biological basis of deleteriousness (eg, pathogenicity scores such as CADD 3 ) may contribute increasingly accurate ascertainment of variants. Given the considerations above, there are two aspects of the work that merit attention: (i) a more complete representation of the contribution of Clinotator in the context of other efforts, and (ii) a discussion of the likelihood that the current algorithm simply reclassifies variants between the overlap categories and their immediate neighbors. It would be useful to evaluate the accuracy of the reclassification by an external expert panel. 