Chakraborty and coworkers proposed a new platform for analysing transcriptomic data from RNA-seq (YeATS -Yet Another Tool Suite for analyzing RNA-seq derived transcriptome). The key feature of the tool highlighted by the authors is error estimation and correction of assembled transcripts, which is performed by analysing ORFs predicted in each transcript and merging of transcripts. This error-filtering step is supposedly missing in most other existing tools to date. In addition, YeATS is able to perform other common RNA-seq analytic tasks, such as transcript abundance estimation. From the point of view of a frequent user of NGS tools, rather than a developer, I can see that such a tool can be useful for improving transcript assembly and estimation, especially in organisms with no or poorly annotated genomes. However, there are a number of points that, to me, would improve the tool and the article, and it would be great if the authors could address/clarify. I would be happy to discuss this further if any of my comments are not clear. It would be nice to include a performance evaluation of this new platform against existing tools, or with vs without the transcript error correction step by YeATS. One way to do this might be to take an existing RNA-seq dataset from a well-annotated organism such as Arabidopsis as a gold standard, and perform transcript assembly-estimation with and without correction by YeATS, and compare this to the transcript estimation using genomic information (e.g. by mapping reads to annotated transcriptomes/genomes). Does YeATS indeed improve the coverage and specificity of transcript estimation, for instance? Along the same lines as the comment above, it would be useful if the authors could comment on the time and/or computing resources required to perform the correction step. Also, are the accuracy and computing resources dependent on the read lengths and/or sequencing platforms? (Or is it intended for Illumina reads as used in the example?). Both the source code of YeATS and the data set used to illustrate its usage have been deposited and described at the end of the article. However, to this reviewers understanding, there is a set of Perl scripts deposited to Github, but it is still not clear to me how the tool/workflow should be implemented. The README does not seem to describe this. Could the author point out if there is already a guideline or documentation on how to use or integrate YeATS into an existing NGS workflow, if that already exists? To my understanding, the input of YeATS is a set of assembled transcripts performed by other tools (e.g. Trinity). However, this step was not clearly described in the in vitro methods section on Page 5. Instead, it seems the trimmed reads were directly aligned to J. regia transcriptome, which is somewhat confusing. Could you please clarify these? The authors described the genes as highly in walnut (according to RNA-seq from this study?) that are not present in Arabiodopsis . I found these to be slightly disconnected. Minor comments: Figure 1: Is the label between the boxes Choose longest ORF to Gene annotation necessary? Page 3, 2 nd column, line 12: modify the text to often in distinct regions of the transcript.. for clarity? Page 5, 1 st column: There were ~24K such transcripts Figure 6s legend: These ORF 