This paper is a good summary of the objectives and achievements of the AgInfra project, and as such provides an good introduction for researchers wishing to use the AgInfra tools and services. The paper could be strengthened by: The description of 1-2 tools developed within the project so that the reader can understand what was possible after the project that was not before. The "conclusion" section should be left with the title "Creating new products and opportunities" and a separate conclusion added which could a. reflect on where the data infrastructure for agrifood research is heading now, and/or b. identify directions for future research/development project. Specific Comments Frequent infelicities in the use of English: In several places the language is a little too telegraphic, appropriate for a bullet point list but not very readable for a journal paper. What do you mean by "Provide mediating capabilities ..." p2 ? "took upon" -- "undertook" p3 vo.aginfra.eu does not respond voms.ipb.ac.rs does not respond p3 "and on user membership" -- "and for ..." p3 "Both of the generic versions of the SG have been customized to support the needs of the agricultural research data community." -- in what way? p3 "allows the easy of new resources to be committed to the project" -- "allows new resources to be easily committed ..." p5 "As it has been show cased" -- "As has been ..." p5 "The usage of such format" -- "The use of such a format ..." p5 "a lot of effort was made on" -- "a lot of effort was devoted to ..." p5 "OpenAIRE (https:// www.openaire.eu), a three-year project, establish" -- "established/establishes (?)" p5 "European Resuscitation Council Guidelines on Open Access" -- are you sure it is "resuscitation"? Repositories? Resuscitation does not make sense. p5 "dissemination aiming among others to provide" -- "dissemination, with the aim to provide" p5 "These recommendations are: ..." --- there are no verbs in the recommendations which follow so it is unclear what the recommendations are. I suggest the use of modal verbs such as "should/ought/might/may ... do XYZ" p5 concerning the recommendations - should the recommendations give *examples* or should they be more categorical? p5 "After the kick-off meeting of the agINFRA project, it was obvious that the expectations were set very high. " -- irrelevant/inappropriate p6 - all the material explaining what GODAN is feels extraneous to the project. A short reference should suffice. p6 "This effort was realized with a European approach ..." -- what does this mean? p6 "Towards this end, two different aspects of agINFRA work implemented this strategy" -- "In order to implement this strategy, agINRA undertook two types of actions:" 