 INTRODUCTION Line 8, you write “energies”. There is no plural form of energy, so this should be written energy. METHODS To make the section clearer and easy to follow, study design, study population inclusion and exclusion criteria, sample size and sampling procedures should be written under separate subheadings. You wrote “.........through a two-stage random cluster sample of adolescent girls attending three primary schools in the area.” Use the word sampling to indicate that it is a procedure. So you can instead write “Two stage cluster random sampling”. You have only mentioned exclusion criteria with no inclusion criteria mentioned. Kindly provide inclusion criteria as well. You have not mentioned which formula or statistical package you used to calculate the sample size using the values you have supplied. Kindly supply this information to make your methodology section easy to follow. Data collection Nutritional status: You mention that “Age of the adolescent schoolgirls was taken....” without stating it was taken from where; kindly state. .......“The WHO defines mild, moderate and severe thinness by z-scores: −2, −1; −3, −2; and −3, respectively”....Kindly state which Z-scores are you referring to here. To state thinness is not enough to make everyone understand which z-scores you are referring to. Micronutrient status: "serum was stored at −20C until analysed in the laboratory in Khartoum for measurement of serum ferritin, copper and zinc.”. Kindly supply the specific name of the laboratory in which this analysis was done. Please provide the reference for the cut-off points for anemia that you used in your study. Parasite status: ... Change this to “Parasite infection status” ..."Blood films for malaria ( Plasmodium falciparum )”.... Why have you specifically mentioned Plasmodium falciparum here? State which blood smear did you prepare? Why did you only asses Schistosoma mansoni infection and ignored other intestinal nematodes (Soil transmitted helminths in particular i.e. Hookworms, Trichuris trichura and Ascaris lumbricoides) which are well known to significantly affect nutritional status and haemoglobin levels? RESULTS Table 1: Stunting rate doesn’t appear in this table. To make this table more useful, you can redraw by including nutritional status against school/or grade. Paragraph two In the paragraph two of the results section, you report findings after comparing means, but it is not clear which test you used to compare the means. Please indicate this in a tabular form and write its summary in the text referring to the table. Tables make it easier for the reader to understand your analysis and findings. Table 2 and 3 Under each of the table in which you indicate a p-value, indicate as a footnote the test on which the reported p-values are based. Table 4 As a footnote indicate what ‘r’ stands for. DISCUSSION You may need to start your discussion with a brief statement as to why it was important to conduct this study where it was conducted. In paragraph three you claim that wasting, stunting and thinness are indicators of acute nutritional insult. Kindly revisit the literature with a particular attention on stunting, then rephrase accordingly. “.........C-reactive protein, which has been to be associated with anaemia in eastern Sudan”..It appears there is a missing word between the word been....and to. CONCLUSION The conclusion is very insufficient. Beef up your conclusion by reflecting on what you have found in your study. 