In this work, Guerrero et al. use mature microRNA in order to detect possible targets of these microRNAs in the human genome, and its population variants, including from Latin American, in order to determine possible associations with cervical cancer. I found the paper sound and its results, analysis and conclusions within the reach of the methodology, however I find the methods lacking, in particular when it comes to the parameters used in the BLAT search. BLAT uses a default seed of 11 to do nucleotide searches (they call it tileSize). So it would be good if the authors state clearly what were the BLAT parameters used, in particular "tileSize" and "stepSize". If a 11-word was used for this analysis the authors are running the risk of not being sensistive enough in their searches. High Specificity, Low Sensitivity. It would be interesting to determine how many of the genes reported as being targets for microRNAs are not detected in your search. microRNA have a particular set of rules when it comes to binding to their respective targets, with seeds between 6, 8 or 9 nucleotides. Nothing is stated in the paper to give an idea of how the rules for target detection were used in this paper. See Mullany et al paper. It is assumed throughout the paper that all the hits are true positives. There is no measure as to how good is BLAT to detect true vs false positives. The paper: In your introduction you mention that microRNAs are involved in cancer. The paragraph suggest this is the only role of microRNAs, however they are involved in processes such as development and morphogenesis, so please rephrase this paragraph because cancer is not the only role of microRNAs. Figure 7D is better represented as percentage, as in the body of the paper. Your phrase: "Because some chromosomes have a greater number of miRNA binding sites, it provides evidence of a non-random distribution of miRNAs within the chromosomes." could be the result of chromosome length. Please provide statistical support for your statement. Page 14: Not all Pre microRNAs produce mature ones from both strands, in fact in the great majority of cases is only one strand that produces the mature one. The paper will be ready for indexing once these observations are addressed. 