This second version of the manuscript entitled “Epidemiology of zoonotic tick-borne diseases in Latin America: Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg?” has undergone edits, the inclusion of more references, and the addition of an author. I have chosen "Approved" because, although there are some minor comments that should be addressed, there is no "minor revision" option available. Many of the edits that the authors have included have improved readability and flow. However, there are some points that need clarification. Most of these are grammatical/typographical errors, but a few have to do with structural organization of sentences or lack of citations. I would like to point out that, while it is commendable that the authors utilized a tool like Grammarly, the general (i.e. non-academic) version of Grammarly does not work as well for scientific terminology or syntax: Paragraph 1 : “Regarding TBDs that affect humans, those that are caused by Rickettsia genera, known as spotted fever group rickettsioses, are the most studied and recognized in Latin America." 1) The wording is a little confusing because of the structure. Start with "The most important tick-borne diseases in Latin America are caused by pathogen spotted fever group Rickettsia. " 2) Replace “genera". It should be “Multiple species in the genus Rickettsia ” or “ Rickettsia spp.” There is only one genus of Rickettsia. Paragraph 2 : “Currently, R. rickettsii rickettsiosis is the most important and deadly TBDs in Mxico, Panam, Colombia, Brazil, and Argentina, where is transmitted to humans by different ticks’ species as Rhipicephalus sanguineus, Amblyomma mixtum, A. patinoi, A. sculptum, A. aureolatum, and A. tonelliae ” 1) Change “where”. It should be “which”. 2) Change “ticks’ species as’” to “tick species such as”. 3) Use "Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever" to describe the disease caused by R. rickettsii. e.g. " Currently, Rocky Mountain Spotted fever ( R. rickettsii ) is the most important and deadly TBD..." Paragraph 3 : “Furthermore, particularly in Venezuela, few studies point Anaplasma platys and E. canis as a human pathogen, a concern that actually discusses, but contrast with the recent description of a novel genotype of E. canis detected in samples of human blood bank donors in Costa Rica” 1) I am not sure I understand the point of this sentence. Grammatically, it seems like you are missing some words in this part of the sentence: “…few studies point Anaplasma platys and E. canis as a human pathogen…” should be changed to: “…studies point to Anaplasma platys and E. canis as human pathogen s …”? 2) The E. canis genotype paper does not "contrast" with the human blood bank donor study. Blood tested from two case studies is a pretty low sample size (N = 2) to make any conclusion. Maybe just stop after " E. canis as human pathogens" Paragraph 5 : "This fact, as well as that B. burgdorferi , has not yet been isolated or cultured from clinical samples from autochthonous patients, is against of Lyme borreliosis presence in Southern hemisphere of America. “ The structural organization of this sentence is confusing. Maybe: “Because B. burgdorferi s.l. has not been isolated or cultured from...It is not thought to be present in…” Paragraph 5 : “ By contrast, considering the recently first isolation and molecular characterization of a relapsing fever Borrelia ( B. venezuelensis ) in Latin America, recovered from an Ornithodoros rudis tick, is plausible the occurrence of underdiagnosed human cases, taking to account the historical records of tick-borne relapsing fever in Colombia, Venezuela and Panama. ” Organize this sentence differently. Break this sentence into two, e.g.: “In contrast, tick-borne relapsing fevers have historically occurred in Colombia, Venezuela, and Panama. Recently, the relapsing fever pathogen Borrelia venezuelensis has been isolated and molecularly characterized from the soft tick Ornithodoros rudis ." Paragraph 7 : "Detection and sentinel surveillance of TBDs require molecular tools for diagnosis, for example, serological tests have proven to be inconclusive in diagnose Lyme disease” There are a couple of things wrong with this sentence. 1) "diagnose" should be "diagnosis of" or "diagnostics of" 2) I am not sure serological tests are inconclusive, although there are problems with cross-reactivity or poor sensitivity during early Lyme disease onset 1 . Paragraph 7 “… at the genus level but species, …. • Change to: “to the species level” Conclusion : “As is known, also there are clear limitations in the national budgets that are specifically earmarked for vector-borne surveillance and public health efforts.Even more, what part of that is allotted toward TBD research. This should be considered as part of this call to action." The point of your piece is that there is a growing tick-borne disease problem that needs to be and is currently not addressed. “As is known” is referring to anecdotal information. Please find a reference to support this claim that national budgets are not providing enough funds for vector-borne surveillance and compare (or contrast) this with what you think it should be (probably the Colombian National Public Health Institutions will have information on this). References 1. Waddell LA, Greig J, Mascarenhas M, Harding S, et al.: The Accuracy of Diagnostic Tests for Lyme Disease in Humans, A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of North American Research. PLoS One . 2016; 11 (12): e0168613 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Ticks and microbiology I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Sakamoto JM. Reviewer Report For: Epidemiology of zoonotic tick-borne diseases in Latin America: Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg? [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2019, 7 :1988 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19787.r44291 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1988/v2#referee-response-44291 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 31 Dec 2018 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Sakamoto JM. Reviewer Report For: Epidemiology of zoonotic tick-borne diseases in Latin America: Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg? [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2019, 7 :1988 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19300.r42313 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/7-1988/v1#referee-response-42313 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 30 Jan 2019 Joyce M Sakamoto , Department of Entomology, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.19300.r42313 This manuscript entitled "Epidemiology of zoonotic tick-borne diseases in Latin America: Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg?" suggests that more studies on TTBD (ticks and tick-borne diseases) are needed worldwide, and particularly in Latin America, but there is ... Continue reading READ ALL 