This paper describes the development of two Jupyter notebook-based tools (Case-Control Finder and Series Finder) for improving the ease with which researchers can identify cases within the SRA for further study. While the paper does a nice job describing what the tool is and how it can be helpful and the code examples provided/explained the paper function as expected (is reproducible), there are a few limitations in its implementation that will limit its utility with researchers: The fact that this tool requires a static version of the SRA metadata to be loaded in limits its ability to be updated and requires the authors to manually download the metadata - access by API to SRA would improve this process. While the provided examples work well, there are limitations to unfamiliar users and failures in cases that seem on reading the paper like they should work. - For example: in series finder if I change `term` to "heart" (instead of "brain"), almost all subsequent cells fail. - In case-control finder, if I change `condition` to "brain cancer", all but one samples returned are controls (which does not align with what is in the SRA?) and visualization formatting becomes difficult. - By clarifying what user options are (or examples) for each place where user is free to play with the input, this could be avoided. Similarly, functions lack documentation and examples here or checks on input within the functions, so diving into the code becomes critical for use, which will limit users. Adding documentation and checks for user input could assist in this overall. Minor issues: I was able to download locally using the "not recommended" approach; however, docker asked for a password using suggested approach in README (I didn't investigate further). In the paper notebooks, tool would be improved by focusing on readability of visualizations. For example, flipping the bar charts in figure 2A by 90 degrees (and accompanying in the notebook), the labels would be more readable. And, by considering the colors in figure C, such that "orange" is not used in all three pie charts (when they do not represent the same categories) would be helpful. Having the number of samples summarized by the pie charts would also be helpful. The sentence in Introduction starting with "More specifically, the Series Finder produces..." is unclear. Specifically, on reading, I'm not sure what a temporal property would be in the metadata (other than the listed age). As a reader, this limits my understanding of 1 of the two notebooks provided and my ability to use the tool. I may be missing it, but it seems like cases and controls would benefit most from being able to also be matched on age and sex to truly make them useful for further analysis. It does not seem this functionality exists, or I'm missing it. 