The authors offer a balanced review regarding the relationship between cognitive decline and insulin resistance. They cover a majority of important studies, providing excellent insights into our current knowledge, and more importantly gaps in definition, pathophysiology, and prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment related to diabetes. One of the strongest parts of the paper is highlighting a probable reciprocal cause and effect relation between diabetes, leading to the cognitive decline, and neurodegenerative lesions in the brain, resulting in central insulin resistance. On the one hand, diabetes can contribute to dementia via a range of mechanisms, including vascular components 1 , peripheral and central inflammatory response via activation of microglia 2 , change in the blood brain barrier 3 , and neurostructural changes, both in white and gray matter 4 . On the other hand, neurodegenerative changes, such as amyloid deposition in the brain, especially in the hypothalamus 5 , may lead to insulin resistance and probably a central type of metabolic disorders and diabetes. This idea opens a new window in organized research for dementia and diabetes and at the same time underlines an urgent need to clarify the priorities in these vital fields. This paper provides a long list of possible gaps and plans for further studies; however, some themes stand out: An urgent need for definitions, and collaborations: Despite a relatively high incidence of diabetes and dementia and not surprisingly extensive research in these conditions, still no worldwide consensus exists on definitions, inclusion and exclusion criteria and clarity on some key words. This can be partially explained by focused research in diabetes and dementia, conducted in different disciplines in parallel and sometimes opposite directions. Considering diabetes as a systemic disease, affecting almost each and every part of human body, and cognitive decline, as a condition with a wide range of etiologies, and presentations, it is a high time to look at these common disorders in a more holistic, multi-dimensional vision and create data banks, including all available data and use similar definitions, and common vocabularies. Such national/international data banks may provide a better insight into epidemiology, pathophysiology, prevention, and treatment of dementia and diabetes and at the same time can save our limited health resources. Experimental studies: Animal studies play a significant role on our current knowledge in medicine. Despite their undeniable advantages in the evaluation of pathogenesis and treatment of several diseases, they still suffer from specific limitations, mainly due to high costs as well as the selection of the most appropriate animals. A similar significant gap can also be seen in animal studies of dementia and diabetes, using different animals, with limited sample sizes and lack of enough controls. Therefore, it may be worthwhile creating national/ international data banks for animal samples from both sexes with or without diseases, covering all possible aspects of animal studies, from behavioral and cognitive abilities to imaging and pathology. Such data banks could facilitate multidiscipline studies, save our resources and more importantly save on the number of sacrifized animals. This is an important step towards a better understanding of the pathogenesis of dementia and diabetes, and even starting new trials based on the underlying causes, such as anti-inflammatory medications. Human studies: Using a common vocabulary in definition and categorization of diabetes and dementia, having national / international animal banks and finally a multidimensional approach toward such diseases with multiple and reciprocal presentations and etiologies may lead to optimal human studies and the creation of national/international human data banks. Undoubtedly, we need to provide more sensitive and specific instruments as well as tests to assess diabetes in the first stages and at the same time evaluate a range of cognitive abilities from executive functions, which is more common in vascular cognitive impairment, to memory abilities. In addition, such holistic vision can identify a range of comorbid and confounding disabilities in diabetes, from obesity and vascular diseases to important psychiatric conditions, such as depression. Finally, there is a need for designing multidiscipline studies to assess epidemiological aspects of dementia and diabetes, public health impact and practical clinical trials. Such studies can provide a great chance to detect diseases in pre-symptomatic phases and follow them longitudinally. Multicenter trials with factorial design, using a combination of lifestyle modifications and medical intervention to diagnose as well as prevent/ treat diabetes and dementia would have paramount of importance in each and every community worldwide. In summary, Stoeckel and colleagues highlight a significant gap of knowledge and consequently appropriate management, definitions, pathogenesis and treatment of dementia and diabetes. A combination of several comorbid and confounding factors and at the same time a possible bi-directional relationship between these common conditions emphasizes an urgent need for a more holistic multidimensional vision to tackle diabetes and dementia together. References 1. Gorelick PB, Scuteri A, Black SE, Decarli C, et al.: Vascular contributions to cognitive impairment and dementia: a statement for healthcare professionals from the american heart association/american stroke association. Stroke . 2011; 42 (9): 2672-713 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Dey A, Hao S, Erion JR, Wosiski-Kuhn M, et al.: Glucocorticoid sensitization of microglia in a genetic mouse model of obesity and diabetes. J Neuroimmunol . 2014; 269 (1-2): 20-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Shimizu F, Sano Y, Tominaga O, Maeda T, et al.: Advanced glycation end-products disrupt the blood-brain barrier by stimulating the release of transforming growth factor-β by pericytes and vascular endothelial growth factor and matrix metalloproteinase-2 by endothelial cells in vitro. Neurobiol Aging . 2013; 34 (7): 1902-12 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Reijmer YD, Brundel M, de Bresser J, Kappelle LJ, et al.: Microstructural white matter abnormalities and cognitive functioning in type 2 diabetes: a diffusion tensor imaging study. Diabetes Care . 2013; 36 (1): 137-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Ishii M, Iadecola C: Metabolic and Non-Cognitive Manifestations of Alzheimer's Disease: The Hypothalamus as Both Culprit and Target of Pathology. Cell Metab . 2015; 22 (5): 761-76 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Azarpazhooh MR and Hachinski V. Reviewer Report For: Complex mechanisms linking neurocognitive dysfunction to insulin resistance and other metabolic dysfunction [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :353 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8926.r13698 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-353/v1#referee-response-13698 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 02 Jun 2016 Luke Stoeckel , National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA 02 Jun 2016 Author Response Referee Reports: 6 May 2016 (MR Azarpazhooh and V Hachinski): We thank the referees for highlighting important strengths of our manuscript: “The authors offer a balanced review regarding the ... Continue reading Referee Reports: 6 May 2016 (MR Azarpazhooh and V Hachinski): We thank the referees for highlighting important strengths of our manuscript: “The authors offer a balanced review regarding the relationship between cognitive decline and insulin resistance. They cover a majority of important studies, providing excellent insights into our current knowledge, and more importantly gaps in definition, pathophysiology, and prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment related to diabetes. One of the strongest parts of the paper is highlighting a probable reciprocal cause and effect relation between diabetes, leading to the cognitive decline, and neurodegenerative lesions in the brain, resulting in central insulin resistance….” Response : We agree with the sentiments expressed by these referees and have expanded the text to further emphasize the major themes identified at the workshop and identified by these referees, and we expanded discussion of these themes to better guide future research in this area (see pgs. 8-9). We request that the list of other research needs be moved to the supplementary materials section. Referee Reports: 6 May 2016 (MR Azarpazhooh and V Hachinski): We thank the referees for highlighting important strengths of our manuscript: “The authors offer a balanced review regarding the relationship between cognitive decline and insulin resistance. They cover a majority of important studies, providing excellent insights into our current knowledge, and more importantly gaps in definition, pathophysiology, and prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment related to diabetes. One of the strongest parts of the paper is highlighting a probable reciprocal cause and effect relation between diabetes, leading to the cognitive decline, and neurodegenerative lesions in the brain, resulting in central insulin resistance….” Response : We agree with the sentiments expressed by these referees and have expanded the text to further emphasize the major themes identified at the workshop and identified by these referees, and we expanded discussion of these themes to better guide future research in this area (see pgs. 8-9). We request that the list of other research needs be moved to the supplementary materials section. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 02 Jun 2016 Luke Stoeckel , National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, USA 02 Jun 2016 Author Response Referee Reports: 6 May 2016 (MR Azarpazhooh and V Hachinski): We thank the referees for highlighting important strengths of our manuscript: “The authors offer a balanced review regarding the ... Continue reading Referee Reports: 6 May 2016 (MR Azarpazhooh and V Hachinski): We thank the referees for highlighting important strengths of our manuscript: “The authors offer a balanced review regarding the relationship between cognitive decline and insulin resistance. They cover a majority of important studies, providing excellent insights into our current knowledge, and more importantly gaps in definition, pathophysiology, and prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment related to diabetes. One of the strongest parts of the paper is highlighting a probable reciprocal cause and effect relation between diabetes, leading to the cognitive decline, and neurodegenerative lesions in the brain, resulting in central insulin resistance….” Response : We agree with the sentiments expressed by these referees and have expanded the text to further emphasize the major themes identified at the workshop and identified by these referees, and we expanded discussion of these themes to better guide future research in this area (see pgs. 8-9). We request that the list of other research needs be moved to the supplementary materials section. Referee Reports: 6 May 2016 (MR Azarpazhooh and V Hachinski): We thank the referees for highlighting important strengths of our manuscript: “The authors offer a balanced review regarding the relationship between cognitive decline and insulin resistance. They cover a majority of important studies, providing excellent insights into our current knowledge, and more importantly gaps in definition, pathophysiology, and prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment related to diabetes. One of the strongest parts of the paper is highlighting a probable reciprocal cause and effect relation between diabetes, leading to the cognitive decline, and neurodegenerative lesions in the brain, resulting in central insulin resistance….” Response : We agree with the sentiments expressed by these referees and have expanded the text to further emphasize the major themes identified at the workshop and identified by these referees, and we expanded discussion of these themes to better guide future research in this area (see pgs. 8-9). We request that the list of other research needs be moved to the supplementary materials section. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Barger SW. Reviewer Report For: Complex mechanisms linking neurocognitive dysfunction to insulin resistance and other metabolic dysfunction [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :353 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8926.r12962 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-353/v1#referee-response-12962 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Apr 2016 Steven W Barger , Department of Geriatrics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA; Department of Neurobiology and Developmental Sciences, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA; Geriatric Research, Education & Clinical Center, Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System, Little Rock, AR, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8926.r12962 This rather comprehensive review of the connections between the metabolic syndrome associated with Type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and cognitive impairment was inspired by a workshop held by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK). The article ... Continue reading READ ALL 