A new section (" Several studies show that visible light is sufficient to cause DNA breaks...") addresses the issue of an apparent ability to induce DNA damage, including DNA breaks, by visible light (i.e. approx. 400-750nm) in the absence of exogenous photosensitisers. While the notion is correct, three of the four cited papers do not support it. Recruitment of 53BP1 to DNA lesions is backed by three references that are inappropriate for the following reasons: Kong et al. used several pulsed lasers (and 405 nm cw) and exceedingly high light intensities to induce local DNA damage. The damage was so extensive that it caused local change in optical properties of cytoplasm – this was revealed by phase contrast microscopy. Such damage must have been much more severe than just an induction of a few DSBs which would result in a subsequent recruitment of repair factors, including 53BP. The authors discuss several consequences of exposing cells to the laser beams they used and mention even formation of plasma. Induction of a wide spectrum of cellular lesions, including DNA lesions of many types, in the experimental systems used by Kong et al. has no simple mechanistic explanation and does not constitute a piece of evidence testifying to an ability of visible light to cause biologically relevant DNA damage in a form of DSBs, which would elicit physiologically relevant DNA damage response. Thus quoting this report in the context of inducing DNA damage by visible light is misleading. The Kong et al. paper is also quoted in the context of recruitment of FEN-1, PARP-1, and Ku70. Here also this reference is not appropriate for the reasons explained above. Carvalho et al. used 405nm laser light (at 100% output as stated by the authors), without using exogenous photosensitisers. Since 405nm light is just on the edge of the visible range, and this wavelengths induces typical damage characteristic for UV (photoproducts, pyrimidine dimers as a result of direct absorption of a photon by DNA, and secondary damage) quoting this paper does not support the notion that visible light can induce DNA damage without sensitisation. Smeenk et al. induced “DSB-containing tracks (1.5mm width)… with a Mira mode locked Ti:Sapphire laser (lambda 800nm, pulse length 5200 fs, repetition rate 576 MHz, output power 80 mW)”. 800nm is not visible light. Although the authors do not state this directly, the intensity of light they used must have resulted in two photon excitation. Thus, in their experiments the cells were exposed locally to infrared radiation of high intensity, and experienced two photon absorption phenomena equivalent to 400 nm excitation – again not typical visible light but the wavelength on the border between UV and visible range. For this reason this reference is misleading. The Smeenk et al. paper is also quoted in the context of MDCC1 and SAMARCA5 recruitment and is inappropriate for the reasons explained above. Finally, the new section on DNA damage induced by visible light seems to have listed a number of repair factors associated with double-strand breaks, but has not mentioned single-strand breaks. Blue light-induced recruitment of XRCC1, a factor which is involved in repair of SSBs, has been demonstrated in the reference number 22 (as well as two other papers from our laboratory). Rewriting the section about DNA damage induced by visible light in the absence of exogenous photosensitisers is advised as this is an important argument in favour of studying recruitment of repair factors under conditions that permit physiologically relevant damage and permit physiological repair processes. Hope this helps.