 Comments to the manuscript Abstract This is a study of frequencies in UPEC strains, recovered from patients with UTIs, whose purpose was the association of phylogenetic groups (PG) with antimicrobial resistance, using the Quadruplex-PCR suggested by Clermont et al. , 2013. Although the approach to PG and resistance has been widely discussed, the information from other countries can support treatment and the epidemiological studies. However, I believe that more information can be extracted from the data already presented, which supports these results and an adequate discussion. Introduction The introduction is clear and contains enough information for the article to be read clearly. Material and Methods It is important to indicate the origin of the strains since it is not indicated what type of UTI they are related to, that is, if they are community UTIs, hospital UTIs, complicated or uncomplicated UTIs. The authors describe the presence of UPEC-MDR strains; however, it is important to define the significance of an MDR strain. As a suggestion for the authors, it is important to add the identification of UPEC-XDR and PDR strains. Based on these data, it is necessary to add 2 more categories of antibiotics, such as monobactams and tetracycline. Check the name of the authors. The purpose of the work was: "to typify the PGs, in a collection of UPEC clinical strains, by the new scheme of Clermont et al. , 2013 and to relate it to antibiotic susceptibility". However, the results showed that 58/140 (They are many) strains were not typed by this method. This is a result that needs to be discussed in more detail. According to the analysis made by the authors, does it mean that the Clermont system implemented does not work on Ugandan strains? Regarding the DNA extraction method? Raw or boiled extracts are generally not suitable for multiplex PCR assays. Is DNA quantification better with this scheme? I suggest that in untyped strains, PCR be performed again using purified DNA (manual or with a commercial kit), quantified and adjusted to a standard concentration. This experiment will validate the negative results. As a suggestion to the authors, it would be interesting to integrate an analysis of PG, resistance, and the age of the patients (pediatric and adult) for the improvement of the manuscript. Considering the enzyme production, GF, age, characteristic of UTI as related to the 4 strains that were characterized as R to all antibiotics, is it an XDR or PDR strain?. Under this same context, how were the phenotypic AmpC-producing strains? In various populations, the phylogenetic group D is highly prevalent, why is it not mentioned in the article and it is not discussed either? How is the MDR profile (73%) in relation to the PG? This information is also important for inclusion in the manuscript. Fig. 2 may be supplemental material. I suggest adding a caption, indicating the following: 1) The corresponding to each lane, 2) the presence of molecular size, 3) the presence of results of the clinical strains, and 4) the presence of positive control strains. In the discussion, the authors justify the presence of strains that did not typify, data that correlate with the article by Clermont et al. , 2013, in addition to this, that other studies show this same trend. The manuscript requires a more solid conclusion, regarding whether the new PG scheme of Clermont et al. , 2013, is optimal or not for this study. Although many results were disputed, I consider that this manuscript requires a more detailed analysis. In the discussion, the authors described: “In this study, we did not find any carbapenems on phenotypic a genotypic screening”. The methodology and results, only indicate that they carried out the phenotypic screening, they do not indicate how they carried out the genetic typing. Correct or add this information in the methodology and results section. In the results section, I suggest that the authors describe in which groups the statistical test was performed, for example, if the statistics were performed only for PG vs antibiotic resistance or considering the MDR groups, or the presence of ESBL, carbapenems, and AmpC. It is not clear whether the identification of AmpCs was chromosomal or plasmid. Please indicate. 