The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has been a recent publication in bioRvix of automatic single cell identification methods for single cell RNA-sequencing data 1 . I think it would be important to clarify this and acknowledge this paper. References 1. Abdelaal T, Michielsen L, Cats D, Hoogduin D, et al.: A comparison of automatic cell identification methods for single-cell RNA-sequencing data. bioRxiv . 2019. Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: bioinformatics I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Freytag S. Reviewer Report For: Evaluation of methods to assign cell type labels to cell clusters from single-cell RNA-sequencing data [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 8 (ISCB Comm J):296 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.22108.r52982 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-296/v2#referee-response-52982 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 14 Oct 2019 J. Javier Diaz-Mejia , University Health Network, Toronto, Canada 14 Oct 2019 Author Response R1-Q1) The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has ... Continue reading R1-Q1) The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has been a recent publication in bioRvix of automatic single cell identification methods for single cell RNA-sequencing data1. I think it would be important to clarify this and acknowledge this paper. References 1. Abdelaal T, Michielsen L, Cats D, Hoogduin D, Mei H, Reinders M, Mahfouz A: A comparison of automatic cell identification methods for single-cell RNA-sequencing data. bioRxiv. 2019. Publisher Full Text R1-A1) We had previously cited this paper in our discussion section (that paper is now published in Genome Biology). Our evaluation results are complementary. The main difference is that Abdelaal et al . evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to each single cell in a data set while we evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to clusters of similar cells. While these use cases seem similar enough, methods designed for one case cannot be easily run on the other case and the evaluation methods of Abdelaal et al . and our paper are fundamentally different and incompatible. In particular, Abdelaal et al . use a cross-validation approach where they split a data set into two sets of single cells, then apply the methods to both and compare the results. For example, if there are 1000 cells in a scRNA-seq dataset, Abdelaal et al . (2019) would split the data into 200 cell parts, then for a given fold, they would take 80% of the data (800 cells) to train each method and test (annotate) the remaining 200 cells; and compare the 200 cell annotations against the labels provided by the authors of the original scRNA-seq dataset. It is not possible to apply this method at the cell cluster level because a cluster represents a single object defined by a single vector capturing the average expression levels of all genes across all cells in the cluster. We also can’t change our clusters in any way because they have been expertly defined and annotated to specific cell types - any change will invalidate this expert annotation. These differences evaluating cell cluster vs. individual cell methods are the reason why it was challenging to incorporate MetaNeighbor into our analysis, requiring source code modifications and extensive communication with the tool authors. Ultimately, the field will be well served by having two complementary benchmark papers, with Abdelaal et al . focusing on individual cell classification methods and ours focusing on cluster classification methods. We have clarified this in our updated manuscript. R1-Q1) The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has been a recent publication in bioRvix of automatic single cell identification methods for single cell RNA-sequencing data1. I think it would be important to clarify this and acknowledge this paper. References 1. Abdelaal T, Michielsen L, Cats D, Hoogduin D, Mei H, Reinders M, Mahfouz A: A comparison of automatic cell identification methods for single-cell RNA-sequencing data. bioRxiv. 2019. Publisher Full Text R1-A1) We had previously cited this paper in our discussion section (that paper is now published in Genome Biology). Our evaluation results are complementary. The main difference is that Abdelaal et al . evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to each single cell in a data set while we evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to clusters of similar cells. While these use cases seem similar enough, methods designed for one case cannot be easily run on the other case and the evaluation methods of Abdelaal et al . and our paper are fundamentally different and incompatible. In particular, Abdelaal et al . use a cross-validation approach where they split a data set into two sets of single cells, then apply the methods to both and compare the results. For example, if there are 1000 cells in a scRNA-seq dataset, Abdelaal et al . (2019) would split the data into 200 cell parts, then for a given fold, they would take 80% of the data (800 cells) to train each method and test (annotate) the remaining 200 cells; and compare the 200 cell annotations against the labels provided by the authors of the original scRNA-seq dataset. It is not possible to apply this method at the cell cluster level because a cluster represents a single object defined by a single vector capturing the average expression levels of all genes across all cells in the cluster. We also can’t change our clusters in any way because they have been expertly defined and annotated to specific cell types - any change will invalidate this expert annotation. These differences evaluating cell cluster vs. individual cell methods are the reason why it was challenging to incorporate MetaNeighbor into our analysis, requiring source code modifications and extensive communication with the tool authors. Ultimately, the field will be well served by having two complementary benchmark papers, with Abdelaal et al . focusing on individual cell classification methods and ours focusing on cluster classification methods. We have clarified this in our updated manuscript. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 14 Oct 2019 J. Javier Diaz-Mejia , University Health Network, Toronto, Canada 14 Oct 2019 Author Response R1-Q1) The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has ... Continue reading R1-Q1) The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has been a recent publication in bioRvix of automatic single cell identification methods for single cell RNA-sequencing data1. I think it would be important to clarify this and acknowledge this paper. References 1. Abdelaal T, Michielsen L, Cats D, Hoogduin D, Mei H, Reinders M, Mahfouz A: A comparison of automatic cell identification methods for single-cell RNA-sequencing data. bioRxiv. 2019. Publisher Full Text R1-A1) We had previously cited this paper in our discussion section (that paper is now published in Genome Biology). Our evaluation results are complementary. The main difference is that Abdelaal et al . evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to each single cell in a data set while we evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to clusters of similar cells. While these use cases seem similar enough, methods designed for one case cannot be easily run on the other case and the evaluation methods of Abdelaal et al . and our paper are fundamentally different and incompatible. In particular, Abdelaal et al . use a cross-validation approach where they split a data set into two sets of single cells, then apply the methods to both and compare the results. For example, if there are 1000 cells in a scRNA-seq dataset, Abdelaal et al . (2019) would split the data into 200 cell parts, then for a given fold, they would take 80% of the data (800 cells) to train each method and test (annotate) the remaining 200 cells; and compare the 200 cell annotations against the labels provided by the authors of the original scRNA-seq dataset. It is not possible to apply this method at the cell cluster level because a cluster represents a single object defined by a single vector capturing the average expression levels of all genes across all cells in the cluster. We also can’t change our clusters in any way because they have been expertly defined and annotated to specific cell types - any change will invalidate this expert annotation. These differences evaluating cell cluster vs. individual cell methods are the reason why it was challenging to incorporate MetaNeighbor into our analysis, requiring source code modifications and extensive communication with the tool authors. Ultimately, the field will be well served by having two complementary benchmark papers, with Abdelaal et al . focusing on individual cell classification methods and ours focusing on cluster classification methods. We have clarified this in our updated manuscript. R1-Q1) The authors have addressed most of my concerns, however I still do not fully understand why other specialized approaches for assigning labels to single cells. In fact there has been a recent publication in bioRvix of automatic single cell identification methods for single cell RNA-sequencing data1. I think it would be important to clarify this and acknowledge this paper. References 1. Abdelaal T, Michielsen L, Cats D, Hoogduin D, Mei H, Reinders M, Mahfouz A: A comparison of automatic cell identification methods for single-cell RNA-sequencing data. bioRxiv. 2019. Publisher Full Text R1-A1) We had previously cited this paper in our discussion section (that paper is now published in Genome Biology). Our evaluation results are complementary. The main difference is that Abdelaal et al . evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to each single cell in a data set while we evaluate methods that assign cell type labels to clusters of similar cells. While these use cases seem similar enough, methods designed for one case cannot be easily run on the other case and the evaluation methods of Abdelaal et al . and our paper are fundamentally different and incompatible. In particular, Abdelaal et al . use a cross-validation approach where they split a data set into two sets of single cells, then apply the methods to both and compare the results. For example, if there are 1000 cells in a scRNA-seq dataset, Abdelaal et al . (2019) would split the data into 200 cell parts, then for a given fold, they would take 80% of the data (800 cells) to train each method and test (annotate) the remaining 200 cells; and compare the 200 cell annotations against the labels provided by the authors of the original scRNA-seq dataset. It is not possible to apply this method at the cell cluster level because a cluster represents a single object defined by a single vector capturing the average expression levels of all genes across all cells in the cluster. We also can’t change our clusters in any way because they have been expertly defined and annotated to specific cell types - any change will invalidate this expert annotation. These differences evaluating cell cluster vs. individual cell methods are the reason why it was challenging to incorporate MetaNeighbor into our analysis, requiring source code modifications and extensive communication with the tool authors. Ultimately, the field will be well served by having two complementary benchmark papers, with Abdelaal et al . focusing on individual cell classification methods and ours focusing on cluster classification methods. We have clarified this in our updated manuscript. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 15 Mar 2019 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Cowell L. Reviewer Report For: Evaluation of methods to assign cell type labels to cell clusters from single-cell RNA-sequencing data [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2019, 8 (ISCB Comm J):296 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.20232.r45813 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/8-296/v1#referee-response-45813 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 01 Apr 2019 Lindsay Cowell , Department of Population and Data Sciences, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.20232.r45813 The authors address an important problem, which is the need for systematic and reproducible approaches for assigning cell type labels based on single cell transcriptome data. They use three data sets with gold standard cell type annotations available and compare ... Continue reading READ ALL 