Unraveling the functional properties of truncated hemoglobins (TrHBs) is both important and revealing as these mini globins of todays cyanobacteria and green algae not only function on the basis of a simplified two-on-two helical topology (in contrast to the three-on-three helices of canonical globins) but also link back to primordial globins that first appeared some 3 billion years ago in a biosphere virtually free of oxygen. Perhaps in reminiscence of this ancestry, many TrHBs function indeed in roles related to reactive nitrogen usage rather than as dioxygen sensing and/or transporting heme-binding proteins. A previous publication by the same authors (i.e. Johnson et al., 2014 ) documented efficient NO dioxygenase activity along with proximal histidine and displaceable distal lysine heme ligands for the recombinant THB1 (rTHB1) truncated hemoglobin of the unicellular algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii . However, to further our functional understanding of TrHBs it is important to elicit how closely recombinant proteins mimic their counterparts within the native cell. Direct investigations of native TrHBs are rendered difficult due to low level (nM range) expression of these proteins and the fact that many of these organisms can neither be cultured nor transformed. To address this issue, the current publication by Drs. Johnson and Lecomte aims to link biochemical properties of Clamydomonas rTHB1 to the in vivo protein. By using a straightforward 3-step purification protocol including freeze-thaw separation of soluble proteins followed by anion-exchange and Superdex size-exclusion FPLC chromatography steps, the authors were able to enrich native THB1 to micromolar concentrations, as judged by light absorption of the 410nm Sorret band for ferric THB1. Native gel electrophoresis and chemiluminescent ECL staining of the final Superdex purification fraction confirmed presence of a single heme-bound protein band that was positively identified as THB1 by subsequent immunostaining with self-generated polyclonal anti-THB1 antibodies (Johnson et al. Biochemistry 2014, 53, 4573-4589). Recombinant THB1 used as electrophoretical reference revealed a slightly lower mobility than the native globin. Presence of a 616 Da b heme (Fe-protoporphyrin IX), lack of the initial methionine and N-terminal acetylation at Ala2 was all demonstrated for the native protein (Mw=14606 Da) by UPLC-MS, again in comparison with rTHB1. As expected, the recombinant protein (Mw=14564 Da; Mw (native-recombinant)=42 Da; corresponds to mass increase by COCH 3 moiety in replacement of one hydrogen atom) was devoid of any post-translational modification (acetylation). This missing acetyl moiety in rTHB1 might also explain the slightly different electrophoretic mobility in native gels. An N-terminal amino acid sequence, blocked for Edman degradation by an acetyl moiety, has also been detected or inferred for TrHBs of the clitated protozoans Paramecium caudatum and Tetrahymena pyroformis . Thus, of the three native eukaryotic TrHbs peptides so far characterized, all three appear to contain the same modification, though its consequences remain to be determined. Based on unpublished NMR and X-ray crystallography results by Drs. Preimesberger and Rice (pers. communication), the N-terminal extension, however, appears to be disordered and of minimal impact on reactivity and enzymatic properties in TrHbs. Together, this publications contains an easy-to-implement protocol for the purification of low level expressed native TrHbs and, as such, represents an important contribution for further links of the biochemical properties of recombinant and native truncated hemoglobins. 