In this this paper, the authors attempt to optimize an algorithm to convert accelerometer data from the Apple Watch to match that provided by a research grade actigraph, the Actiwatch Spectrum Pro. This is a proof of concept study, and thus has a fairly small sample size. Overall, the analyses show the authors are able to convert the Apple Watch data into the same epoch-by-epoch sleep/wake data as the Atiwatch with impressive sensitivity and specificity. Not surprisingly, then, the Total Sleep Time and Wake After Sleep Onset values from the Apple Watch also match the Actiwatch quite well. While I believe this algorithm development is a valuable addition to the literature, there are several areas where the manuscript could be improved. In particular, I believe the authors oversell their results and over state conclusions. There are also some areas where the reader would benefit from more detail or clarity. Overall, I am extremely supportive of this line of work and this paper. However, given the scepticism of this line of work among many in the field, it is critical research on consumer sleep trackers is conducted with strong methodology, is reported clearly, and is interpreted in line with the findings. My specific comments, below, are written with that in mind: My biggest concern about the paper is the authors focus on the claim the Apple Watch can score sleep/wake the same as the Actiwatch. However, fundamentally, this is not what they have shown. They have shown their algorithm can faithfully replicate the sleep/wake designation made by the Actiwatch on a 15-sec basis. While this would be expected to, and indeed does, produce largely similar all-night sleep measures, that is not the same thing as validating the all-night sleep measures produced by Apple Watch. That can only be done with a PSG validation study. I appreciate the author never explicitly claim this is a “validation” study. Nonetheless, the language they use throughout certainly implies such. I would encourage the authors to refocus the paper around the finding related to their algorithm being optimized to produce the same epoch-level decision as the Actiwatch makes. They can still show the TST and WASO data as evidence this likely translates into all-night sleep measures, but the latter should not be the take home message. This concern propagates through several of the following comments, as well. Abstract: I would encourage the authors to focus the Results section on the algorithm success, not on TST and WASO. They should also remove the claim the Apple Watch “…the Apple Watch could be an acceptable alternative to the Philips Actiwatch for sleep monitoring…”, as this cannot be shown without a formal PSG validation study. Introduction: While everyone agrees PSG has serious limitations, I would not categorize sleep apnea and narcolepsy as "qualitative" abnormalities. They are indeed quantified in a very specific way. It would be more fair to simply say PSG is better suited for use on a single night to detect sleep disorders. Introduction: The authors should clearly state the Aims of the study at the end of the Intro. As stated above, I believe the primary Aim should be to determine if ENMO can provide the same epoch-level sleep/wake decision as that produced by Actiwatch. The TST and WASO assessments should be secondary or exploratory Aims. This would both reflect the supporting role they play to the main Aim, as well as the fact the study is underpowered to detect differences between the two devices in all-night sleep measures. Methods: The reader would benefit from a better description of the sample. What was the age mean, standard deviation, and range? What was the sex ratio? How did the authors screen for sleep disorders? Were there any medical/psychiatric diagnoses? In my view, it may not matter what the exact answers are, as the main purpose here is to see if the Apple Watch can detect motion to the same extent as the Actiwatch. In that regard, it should not really matter who is producing that motion. One the other hand, most actigraphs and consumer wearables perform differently in different populations. Thus, generalizability may well be affected by the demographics of the sample studied here. Methods: Participants wore both devices simultaneously. Did the authors counter-balance the order on the wrist across participants to control for possible effects on motion? Methods: It would provide additional clarity if the authors would link each analysis to an Aim. It was not until I had finished the Results that I realised why analysis 1 and 2 were necessary. This confusion also reflects the fact the paper is written as if validating the TST and WASO measures are the main Aim (for which the first two analyses are not necessary), when in fact it is not. Methods: I am not able to comment thoroughly on the mathematical procedures used to optimize Apple Watch activity counts so they produce the same sleep/wake decision as Actiwatch. I would suggest the authors ask a modeller or other quantitative specialist to review that information. Methods: The authors report in the Discussion that they impute missing date from Apple Watch. This information should be in the Methods. Moreover, they should very clearly state how many nights and how many unique participants had missing date, as well as the mean/standard deviation and range of the missing data length. Across papers examining consumer wearables, it is becoming increasingly clear they all have problems with not recording data for chunks of time. It is critical for users of these devices to be made aware of this. Finally, I would encourage the authors to redo their analyses dropping these missing data, rather than imputing them. A lot can happen in 20-60 minutes of the night, especially given some of the nights appeared to only have ~5 hours of sleep (per Bland Altman plot). It is a faulty assumption to think the epoch before and after an hour long blank period (or even a 20 minute blank period) can substitute for every epoch within that blank period. Results: Did the authors examine night-to-night variability or test-retest reliability of the Apple Watch, given they had 2 nights for most people? If a consumer device is to be used for long periods of time in the field (by a consumer, researcher, or clinician), it is important to know if the device reliably produces the same accuracy from night to night. Results: The Bland-Altman plots seem to suggest the Apple Watch shows proportional bias, at least for TST and WASO (i.e, the device’s detection of motion, and thus sleep, becomes less accurate with lower TST and greater WASO). The authors should report proportional bias analyses for each plot, and discuss implications of the findings. Discussion: The authors compare their findings to a single paper using a different actigraph. It is not clear why this specific paper was chosen as particularly relevant. Could they authors please clarify that? While the literature on consumer wearables is not particularly large, one would have expected the authors to put their findings into a broader context. For example, the authors could reference a recent review by de Zambotti 1 to compare their findings more broadly. It seems to me the biggest limitation of this study is the limited storage capacity and battery life of the Apple Watch. If I understand correctly, the device was only worn during the night, because it had to be charged during the day or data would be lost. Even if I misunderstand that point, the fact ”recording was limited to two consecutive nights per participant due to memory and data transfer constraints” has serious implications for the practical translation of this work: 1) This does not reflect how the typical consumer will use the Apple Watch; 2) It seem unlikely any large scale (or even small scale) study will adopt the Apple Watch (a stated goal of the authors), as it is impractical to expect participants in large cohort studies to only wear the device at night. This is especially true when there are other devices with much longer recording periods where one can also access the raw data (e.g., GeneActiv and even Fitbit with specialized software) While these points do not undermine the value of the work done here, the authors need to be more clear about these limitations. 