 Isabel Andia, reporting on the PRP aspects of this article, From the area of my expertise in PRP therapies, I have some reservations: One of the main questions that remain unanswered regarding the use of PRP is optimal formulation. Differents types of PRP have been identified in base of platelet enrichment and leukocyte concentration (relative to peripheral blood) and activation procedure. These crucial aspects are not mentioned in this article. Moreover, the authors dilute (8:5) (PRP:bupivacaine sol.) in the first case and (6:5) (PRP:lignocaine sol.) which raises concerns about their final PRP product and the capability to clot. I would suggest that the authors describe the formulation of their product and discuss the inconvenience of diluting the PRP product and mixing PRP with anesthetics (Carofino B. Et al., 2012 Corticosteroids and local anesthetics decrease positive effects of platelet-rich plasma: an in vitro study on human tendon cells. Arthroscopy . 711-9.) Michele Abate, reporting on the rehabilitation aspects of the article, General: The authors should provide the timing of the rehabilitation program before and after PRP injections and have to specify the progression of the exercises. Case I: Why was MRI performed after the failure of the rehabilitation program and not before? This could have influenced the outcome of the rehabilitation program. Which stretching exercises were performed? Was it only on the minor pectoralis? Did the patient perform exercises for impingement syndrome (lowering of the humeral head)? What about the strengthening of biceps and triceps? How did the patient perform exercises? Was it with the aid of only Theraband, or other specific devices (isokinetic)? Which suggestions about posture did the author provide? Case II: In this case, the rehabilitation program was wrong in the first phase. The patients suffered, in addition to SLAP (superior labral anterior to posterior) tear, impingement syndrome with bursitis and partial rotator cuff tear. This was the reason the patient had scanty results from the rehabilitation. During this period more attention had to be provided in the treatment of cervical spine and its dysfunction and of impingement syndrome. Which active exercises did the patient perform? 