In this paper, Gulati and colleagues have tested the hypothesis that psoriatic skin lesions have significantly lower expression of negative immune regulators compared to peak DTH reactions from diphencyprone (DPCP). This study was done using two previously generated data sets described in previous publications from this group: 1) a study in 11 healthy human volunteers of recall responses to DPCP at 3-day (peak) and 14-day (resolution) using immunohistochemical techniques to visualize the infiltrating immune cells and gene expression (Affymetrix HGU133 Plus 2.0 Arrays) to perform a molecular profiling of the day 3 and day 14 DPCP responses, and in 6 cases 4-8 months later (reference 5); and 2) a meta-analysis derived (MAD) transcriptome of psoriatic skin from 3 different studies using Affymetrix HGU133 Plus 2.0 arrays in which microarray raw data were available through public databases (reference 6), termed the MAD-3 transcriptome. The results show an imbalance in the expression of negative regulatory genes in DPCP day-3 peak reactions compared to psoriatic skin lesions, favoring the expression of more negative immune regulators in the former vs. the latter group (52 genes vs 7 genes). They generated odds ratios for the positive and negative immune regulators from a list of negative regulatory and positive regulatory genes derived from a GO search. The odds ratio for negative immune regulators was significantly higher in the DPCP day-3 (peak) group than the psoriatic skin group, while the odds ratios for the positive immune regulators were not statistically significantly different between the two groups. The enrichment for negative immune regulators held true also at day-14 (resolving) and day 120 (late). These findings were confirmed by qRT-PCR of several key genes and by immunohistochemistry. This study is technically sound and the paper clearly written, with acceptable figures and tables. The title and the abstract are appropriate for the research described in the article. The methods are described in sufficient detail for the experiments to be replicated, although it would be useful to provide more detail about the methods underlying the calculations of the odds ratios. The interpretation of the results are reasonable based on the data and the conclusions provide a novel conceptual framework for understanding the fundamental mechanisms of skin homeostasis in psoriasis. I had one question about the results and their interpretation. In the study from reference 5, the results suggested different patterns of immune responses after DPCP challenge, referred to as subgroups A and B, where subgroup B had higher levels of negative immune regulators at day-3 than subgroup A. Interestingly, subgroup B fit the typical kinetics of a DTH response in which T cell and DC infiltrates peaked at day-3 and were diminished at day-14; whereas, subgroup A showed an unexpected increase in the numbers of T cells and DCs at day-14 compared to day-3. It might be useful to know if the higher expression of negative immune regulators in DPCP skin compared with psoriatic skin was driven by the higher levels of these genes in subgroup B, or if it was generally true across both subgroups. 