The authors aimed to estimate the prevalence of “atypical metabolic phenotypes” i.e. lean metabolically unhealthy and obese metabolically healthy individuals in the city area of Maracaibo, Venezuela. For that, they analyzed previously generated data from a cross-sectional city-wide health survey (MMSPS), grouping individuals in three BMI categories (normal weight, overweight and obese) and in two “metabolic health” categories (healthy and unhealthy). Overall, this study is incremental, reporting no new scientific information on the metabolic phenotypes whatsoever. Its relevance relay on the fact that is methodologically correct study of a Latin American population, which is largely underrepresented in the international literature. Nevertheless, there are several specific caveats that must be addressed before the article be suitable for indexing: Abstract: Methodololgy: It must tell the source of the sample to make clear that is a city-wide health survey. It must indicate what was the specific criteria for this clustering individuals in healthy/unhealthy categories. It is not enough to tell that is was made upon a 2-step clustering analysis. Results: It should be re written to clearly indicate the frequency of each phenotype category and indicate if there were differences between the sexes in this distribution and the OR for casrdiovascular risk factors or diseases. It must indicate what is the difference between unhealthy lean and unhealthy normal-weight individuals Conclusions: There are no reasons to suppose that individuals of Maracaibo city will have no “atypical metabolic phenotypes” as the rest of the world populations, thus the authors should rephrase this sentence to make more scientifically sound. Also, the conclusion relative to the increased cardiovascular risk of “healthy obese” individuals should be better explained since it cannot be derived from the data reported in the Results section of the abstract. Introduction: The phrase: “For this reason, the actual clinical practice catalogues an obese patient as an “unhealthy” patient and a lean patient is considered “healthy”, should be modified to make its medical meaning clearer, because it is evident for everybody that many lean people are unhealthy. Also, the paper will gain interest if the authors comment what is the importance of researching the “atypical phenotypes”in general. For example, is there any evidence that these individuals can be misclassified in their cardiometabolic risk based solely in the BMI? Finally, it is important that the authors comment the extent to what Maracaibo city population is representative of other Latin American populations. For international readers will be interesting to learn that American populations are extremely heterogenous in both genetic and cultural aspects. Materials and methods: “Population selection”: this whole methodological section is cryptic and is basically a summary of the published in the reference 9. I suggest to re write it to make more understandable for general readers. Specifically, it must be justified why the authors did choose not to use more a conventional definition of metabolic health, such as the metabolic syndrome definition used by ATP III guidelines. “Physical activity”: it should be improved the explanation of what is the relevance and connection of table 1 with the rest of the paper. Also, in this table there is no quantitative definition of the “Work domain” and “lower/upper limit” categories. Information of the proportion of each category over the overall would be useful to summarize these data. “Calibration of the Framingham-Wilson equation and coronary risk categorization for the population of Maracaibo city”: the authors must explain what asymptomatic angina is, since medically angina is a symptom by itself. Results: Table 2: change “Indian-american” for “native American”, if its corresponds since “Indian” correspond to India nationals “Metabolic phenotypes and biologic-anthropometric variables” section: Since all the variables in this table are statistically different, a post test comparing individual groups should be important to make sense of the noted global differences. Also, a better description and explanation of these particular results is required in the main text. “Metabolic phenotypes and coronary risk classification” section: the meaning of the first phrase must be clarified since only obese individuals showed increased OR: other comparisons were not statistically significant with the adjusted model, thus were not different. 