Authors have made changes in line with the first review and feedback. I particularly commend the authors on changes regarding culture and the role of Government in potentially changing policy to reduce the burden of diabetes and kidney disease. However, I note that reference groups for multiple regression were not addressed. See my suggestion for addressing this in the limitation section. Several edits are required – I have outlined these with suggestions below. Results - Table 4 multiple regression I note that you have not changed the reference groups to those with greater numbers. In the limitation section can you acknowledge this and justify why these reference groups were used please. See my suggestion below under ‘limitations’. Edits required 1. Remove stop after panel. The content validity was also conducted by an expert panel. To decide whether the content of the questionnaire met the objective of the study or not. 2. Discussion – this phrase is not clear – do you mean ‘no association with attitude was found’ but nil association with attitude was mentioned. 3. I suggest deleting the sentence below and add this into the last sentence of this paragraph. ‘However the association between increased education and knowledge is consistent with other studies White et al . (2008) had also reported higher knowledge in subjects with higher education which was supported by Stanifer et al . (2016); Khalil Abdalrahim (2014) and Yusoff et al. (2016). This result makes sense since the higher the level of education, the more knowledge a person will have. 4. Please change ‘subjects’ to participants. 5. Please remove space after ‘self-… Despite good self- reported ‘knowledge’ 6. The sentence below is not clear – I suggest the following ‘A major challenge for health professions is to use familial language (free of medical jargon) so that all at-risk populations with low health literacy levels understand how to best manage risk factors for diabetes-related complications. The real challenge of the health sector lies in this finding, since it means that health information must be translated into the simplest terms (free of medical jargon) and made available in the widest accessible form, so as to reach the greater subset of the population who lack higher education. 7. Grammar – please change to ‘There is much conflicting information… These are lot of conflicting information 8. Limitations - See suggested changed below in limitations. The strengths of the study are that this is probably the first study done in This is the first study conducted in Fiji to focus on the KAP of patients with T2DM and CKD. Despite the study sampling patients attending health clinics during the working week, the baseline demographical information showed almost equal representation of sample in terms of gender, ethnicity and employment status, and thus the reducing the potential for selection biasness is substantially reduced. The availability of the survey tool in three languages enabled the collection of data from all the ethnic groups (FID, iTaukei and FoD). Limitations of this study include the moderately small sample size, was very small and thus there may have been greater or more significant limiting the ability to detect small differences between groups. if sample size was large. Due to the questionnaire being self-answered administered by the participants, there is also a high chance the potential for incorrect responses information bias of errors or misrepresentation of information due to chance of information with a bias toward ‘politically correct’ responses. Finally, there were no associations measured between knowledge, attitude, behaviors and risk factors. Normative reference groups were used for the multiple regression analysis regardless of numbers in each group. 9. Conclusion and Recommendations – see suggested changes below. Conclusion This research was able to identify Results from this study identified high-risk groups with low levels of knowledge, attitude and practice, towards whom for targeted public health interventions can be targeted in future. The results of this study can enable In addition, findings can inform informed public-health policies to be made to target the for high risk groups specific groups with low KAP scores and consequently potentially increasing their knowledge, attitudes and practice within these populations through well-planned, appropriate and tailored strategies that are culturally acceptable suit the identified groups. Consequently, health promotion activities are vital in improving knowledge, attitude and practice, and it is recommended for that health promotion and interventional studies to be are conducted using the results of this study among patients are targeted toward at-risk groups identified in this study to potentiate the greatest improvements in health outcomes. to measure the effectiveness of health promotion intervention. Further research is Clustered randomised intervention trials are necessary to identify test strategies to improve management and outcomes for these high risk patients. 10. Recommendations It is recommended that in order to raise the level of knowledge, attitude and practice, in high risk populations, the barriers to healthcare should be need to be identified and removed, reduced. There could be for example, provisions made for provision of mobile outreach health-clinics for rural communities, who have difficulty in accessing hospital services. Additionally, there needs to be financial support or free transport for patients to attend clinic, if they face difficulties in accessing medical care due to financial issues. The patients need to be and convenient and varied clinic times that includes pharmaceutical services. booked for clinics at a time suitable for them keeping in mind their transport issues, distance of travel, work and other commitments, and so forth. Thus, flexibility in the appointment system for patients can help increase their These measures need may would be expected to increase compliance to attendance at clinics (including mobile clinics) therefore increase their access to wide array of leading to an increase the number of contacts with health professional, improve self-management for those with chronic conditions, reduce diabetes-related complications and reduce inequalities in health care provision in Fiji and greater medical services including awareness. The barriers to healthcare need to be identified and consequently attempts made to reduce them so as to help empower patients to live a healthier life, make smart health choices, manage their illness and avoid complications. The most important factor will be to recognize the high risk patients so that an intensive and comprehensive health care intervention/program is delivered to them.