The application of hight frequency jet ventilation (HFJV) during stereotactic thermalablation of liver tumours is an interesting method for minimising respiration related movements of this organ. The authors presented the results of a methodological study which includes five patients who underwent open computer-assisted liver thermalablation under general anesthesia using HFJV. The aim of this study was to compare HFJV with conventional ventilation (CV) in terms of influence of these techniques of ventilation on respiration related movements of liver. The liver movements range during both methods of ventilation were measured and compared in every patient. The applied measurement method allowed safe assessment of the dynamic movements of the organ. The results showed that HFJV in comparison to CV significantly reduced liver movements. The authors concluded that HFJV is a promising method of lung ventilation for patients qualified for surgery when reduction of target organ displacement is crucial. Application of HFJV instead CV allowed better immobilisation of liver and therefore it may allow us to perform ablation safely and more effectively. So far, only a few articles present this topic and the analysed groups of patients are limited. That is why we need more well-designed studies evaluating HFJV during ablation procedures, such as the study written by Galmen et al . In my opinion it is an important and correctly conducted study. The authors developed and described the new methodology of dynamic measurements of intraoperative liver movements related to lung ventilation. This study provides new arguments for using HFJV for patients undergoing during stereotactic thermal ablation of liver tumours or others organs. Minor comments: On figure 1. The term "standard ventilation” has two different abbreviations in the article: on the chart SV abbreviation is used while in the description below we may find TV. To include patient in the study the number of metastases (as stayed in method section) should be less than 20, whereas one patient (table 1, ID-5) had 30. 