This is a well written paper, easy to comprehend and to follow the logical thoughts of the author. The paper addresses a relevant topic i.e. training of front line staff in resource-constrained public primary health care clinics in providing quality diabetic care. The research question, the objectives, the methodology including the statistical analysis and the discussion are in alignment and the writing style contributes to a smooth flow of logical thought. What is interesting is the use of patient reported experience measure (PREMS) as an outcome measure, not a frequent measure used in this country context. The title reflects the content of the paper as written. However, being a pilot study and the purpose sampling frame of clinics from a region, the sampling methodology would not support claim of representativeness to the whole country. The title should reflect this. The abstract has clear research question and objective and stops at the methodology because this is a study protocol paper. This study was implemented in 2016 and the results of this study has already been published through a poster presentation, as in this case entitled “Pilot implementation of a novel post-graduate medical education program: Steno REACH certificate course in clinical diabetes care – Malaysia” by the same first and second authors of this paper at DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/S0168-8227(16)31353-5[re-1]; as well as a full paper publication in MEDICAL EDUCATION ONLINE 2019, VOL. 25, 1710330 https://doi.org/10.1080/10872981.2019.1710330 entitled “Impact of continuing medical education for primary healthcare providers in Malaysia on diabetes knowledge, attitudes, skills and clinical practices” by Shiang Cheng Lim, Feisul Idzwan Mustapha, Jens Aagaard-Hansen, Michael Calopietro, Tahir Aris and Ulla Bjerre-Christensen 2 . While it is agreed that a study protocol paper can fill a knowledge gap, the methodology has been well described in the published paper by Lim, S.C. et al. It is suggested the author demonstrate how this current paper can add value to scientific knowledge by being different from the previous publication by Lim, S.C. et al. What is unique in this current paper under review is the use of PREMS as a secondary outcome measure. The author may want to review the paper to reflect a focus on the PREMS component of this study which has not been described elsewhere. A relevant reference for the author would be Borg S, Eeg-Olofsson K, Palaszewski B, et al. Patient-reported outcome and experience measures for diabetes: development of scale models, differences between patient groups and relationships with cardiovascular and diabetes complication risk factors, in a combined registry and survey study in Sweden. BMJ Open 2018;9:e025033. doi:10.1136/ bmjopen-2018-025033 3 . This study has relevance to other countries with similar context on the challenges faced in upscaling the pilot into a nationwide roll out. The results of the analysis of the post intervention interviews of the trainees as well as their clinic leads may lead to discussion points of interest. It would be helpful if the author clarifies if the intervention i.e. the training module, is original or is it an adaptation of the Steno REACH education programme implemented in China, India, the Middle East, South East Asia and Latin America. A review of references for the interventions in different country settings would be useful for the discussion. This study is an interesting one, with a potential of relevant lessons for other countries with the same context, trying to improve the quality of care of diabetes challenged with resource constraints. However, for the sake of originality, the authors are suggested to review the focus of the paper. 