The authors present a workflow that describes how to analyze the datasets available through the Recount2 project with Bioconductor. Since many of the state-of-the-art methods for the analysis of RNA-seq data are implemented in R and available through the Bioconductor project, this contribution is an important resource for researchers interested in reanalyzing the impressive amount of data that the authors have processed in the Recount2 project. I have a few comments that hopefully will help improve the workflow. 1. I was a bit confused by the rationale of the scaled coverage counts. And especially on the need for a target library size and the use of scaled counts. Wouldn't it be simpler to divide the coverage by read length (without rescaling)? Wouldn't that result in the actual reads mapped to each region (exon, gene, ...)? I understand that for the derfinder analysis, some rescaling is needed for normalization purposes, but for more "classic" analysis (such as gene- or exon-level differential expression) where the counts are normalized later in the workflow, wouldn't starting from 'coverage/readlength' be a more sensible choice? 2. Sex prediction. This is a really interesting part of the analysis, even though it's not the focus of this workflow. It would be interesting to get the authors' opinion of how to best use this feature on real analyses. For instance, are the 8 misclassified samples likely to be false positives from the classifiers or are they mislabeled samples? What is the recommendation of the authors in such cases? Should these samples be discarded or is there any diagnostics that can be run to make sure that the quality of these samples is not compromised? 3. I think that the authors should give more details on the design matrix. For instance, why did they decide to include RIN and sex? Why is it important to include these variables in the model? More generally, the workflow lacks details on the limma pipeline. I understand that this is not the focus of the authors' work, but it may be confusing for beginners that don't have a direct experience with limma or voom. The authors could for instance refer the reader to the limma workflow 1 for details. 4. Similarly, there is a lack of details on the GO enrichment analysis. Since there are many types of gene-set enrichment analysis, a paragraph could be added with more details and perhaps some references to explain what enrichment analysis is and what types of hypotheses are tested. 5. One important advantage of exon-level differential expression is that it can be used to infer alternative splicing. This can be done with the functions 'diffSplice()' and 'topSplice()' in limma or with the DEXSeq package. It would be nice to showcase these functions or at least to mention that they exist. 6. Is the annotation in Recount2 stable? Or is it constantly updated when a new version of Gencode is released? If the former, it might make sense to package the 'gencode_v25_hg38_txdb' object that the authors create in the workflow so that each user does not have to create it from scratch every time. Minor comments: - The authors use throughout the paper 'assays(rse)$counts' to access the counts of the 'rse' object. Although this is correct, a clearer and more concise way is 'assay(rse)' (or 'assay(rse, "counts")' if the authors want to explicitly state the name of the assay). - Section "Coverage counts provided by recount2". The authors say "Although recount can generate count matrices for other annota- tions using hg38 coordinates. " But they never say how this can be done. It would be good to add a paragraph on how to do that (which I presume involves creating an alternative txdb object). 