Nowicka and Robinson propose a novel method, called DRIMSeq, to test for differential transcript usage between groups of samples using RNA-seq. The method is based on the Dirichlet-multinomial distribution. The authors evaluate different existing approaches to estimate the parameters of their model using simulated experiments with a small number of replicates, which is a common scenario of high-throughput sequencing experiments. Furthermore, Nowicka et al . provide a proof of principle of their method by applying it to both simulated and real RNA-seq data. They also compare the performance of DRIMSeq with DEXSeq and sQTLseekeR in detecting differential transcript usage and splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTLs), respectively. DRIMSeq shows high concordance with DEXSeq. Furthermore, the authors demonstrate that DRIMSeq performs better than DEXSeq when using transcript-level counts. DRIMSeq and sQTLseekeR were also highly concordant. Nevertheless, sQTL genes detected by DRIMSeq were expressed higher than those detected by sQTLseekeR, and sQTLs detected by DRIMSeq were in closer proximity to exons compared to sQTLs detected by sQTLseeker. DRIMSeq is implemented as an R/Bioconductor package. Overall, the manuscript is well presented and is scientifically sound. The description of the method is clear, the comparisons are fair, and the conclusions are supported by data and analyses. Below some minor comments: Transcription of multiple isoforms from a single gene can be the consequence of differences in the following molecular mechanisms: transcription start sites, splicing, and termination of transcription. The terms “differential splicing” and “splicing QTLs”, which are used throughout the manuscript and the package vignette, focus only on splicing. Consider a hypothetical example of an isoform switch between conditions in which the two isoforms only diverge by the transcription start site of the first exon. DRIMSeq should also detect this difference, and this would not be due to differential splicing. Thus, the authors could use more generic terminology that describes all possible interpretations of the outcome of their test. Perhaps “differential transcript usage” or “transcript usage QTLs”? In equations 6-11, PL and APL are understandable from the context but are not defined in the text. It would be useful for the reader to include more information of the simulated data from Sonseson et al . (2016) in the main text of this manuscript (for example, number of replicates per condition). The authors describe how DEXSeq can account for additional covariates in complex experimental designs. This paragraph, as well as the figures and supplementary material associated to it, could be understood as if DEXSeq fits GLMs only for complex experimental designs. In reality, DEXSeq always fits GLMs, even for simple two-group comparisons. There are some panels from the supplementary figures where data are missing. Specifically, Fig. S13 has 3 empty panels and Fig. S21 the left panels are missing the data for “dexseq.prefilter5” and “drimseq_genewise_grid_trended.filter5”. The list of software for splicing event quantification is already very extensive, however a citation to the Bioconductor package SGSeq (Goldstein et al. , 2016) could also be added. As for the readability of the supplementary information, some abbreviations are not defined in each supplementary figure caption. For example, in Fig. S5, n, m, DM, FP and nr_features are not defined in its caption (some of them, however, are defined in previous captions). Since many abbreviations repeat several times through the supplementary information, it would be useful to include a glossary of all abbreviations at the beginning of all supplementary figures. References 1. Soneson C, Matthes KL, Nowicka M, Law CW, et al.: Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biol . 2016; 17 : 12 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Goldstein LD, Cao Y, Pau G, Lawrence M, et al.: Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS One . 2016; 11 (5): e0156132 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Reyes A. Reviewer Report For: DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1356 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9577.r14338 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v1#referee-response-14338 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 06 Dec 2016 Mark Robinson , University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland 06 Dec 2016 Author Response Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage ... Continue reading Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage (DTU), which accounts for not only differential splicing but also the differences in transcription start sites and differential transcript termination. In the QTL analysis, as we test for associations between genotypes and transcript usage and not only splicing, following your suggestion, we have also changed the term from splicing QTLs (sQTLs) to transcript usage QTLs (tuQTLs). We have addressed all the other minor comments which include: defining the abbreviations of profile likelihood (PL) and adjusted profile likelihood (APL), adding the sample size information about the simulations from Soneson et al. [1], in order to remove the misleading suggestion that DEXSeq fits GLMs only in the complex designs, we have changed the names of the models used in real data analysis from "model full glm" to "model full 2" and paraphrased the corresponding manuscript sections, we have included results for the panels with missing data in the Supplementary Figures S15, S16 and S24, we have included the citation to SGSeq [2] - the Bioconductor package for analyzing splice events from RNA-seq data, in the Supplementary Materials, we have prepared a section explaining abbreviations used in the subsequent Supplementary Figures. References [1] Charlotte Soneson, Katarina L Matthes, Malgorzata Nowicka, Charity W Law, and Mark D Robinson. Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biology, 17(1):1–15, 2016. [2] Leonard D Goldstein, Yi Cao, Gregoire Pau, Michael Lawrence, Thomas D Wu, Somasekar Seshagiri, and Robert Gentleman. Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS ONE, 11(5):e0156132, may 2016. Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage (DTU), which accounts for not only differential splicing but also the differences in transcription start sites and differential transcript termination. In the QTL analysis, as we test for associations between genotypes and transcript usage and not only splicing, following your suggestion, we have also changed the term from splicing QTLs (sQTLs) to transcript usage QTLs (tuQTLs). We have addressed all the other minor comments which include: defining the abbreviations of profile likelihood (PL) and adjusted profile likelihood (APL), adding the sample size information about the simulations from Soneson et al. [1], in order to remove the misleading suggestion that DEXSeq fits GLMs only in the complex designs, we have changed the names of the models used in real data analysis from "model full glm" to "model full 2" and paraphrased the corresponding manuscript sections, we have included results for the panels with missing data in the Supplementary Figures S15, S16 and S24, we have included the citation to SGSeq [2] - the Bioconductor package for analyzing splice events from RNA-seq data, in the Supplementary Materials, we have prepared a section explaining abbreviations used in the subsequent Supplementary Figures. References [1] Charlotte Soneson, Katarina L Matthes, Malgorzata Nowicka, Charity W Law, and Mark D Robinson. Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biology, 17(1):1–15, 2016. [2] Leonard D Goldstein, Yi Cao, Gregoire Pau, Michael Lawrence, Thomas D Wu, Somasekar Seshagiri, and Robert Gentleman. Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS ONE, 11(5):e0156132, may 2016. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 06 Dec 2016 Mark Robinson , University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland 06 Dec 2016 Author Response Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage ... Continue reading Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage (DTU), which accounts for not only differential splicing but also the differences in transcription start sites and differential transcript termination. In the QTL analysis, as we test for associations between genotypes and transcript usage and not only splicing, following your suggestion, we have also changed the term from splicing QTLs (sQTLs) to transcript usage QTLs (tuQTLs). We have addressed all the other minor comments which include: defining the abbreviations of profile likelihood (PL) and adjusted profile likelihood (APL), adding the sample size information about the simulations from Soneson et al. [1], in order to remove the misleading suggestion that DEXSeq fits GLMs only in the complex designs, we have changed the names of the models used in real data analysis from "model full glm" to "model full 2" and paraphrased the corresponding manuscript sections, we have included results for the panels with missing data in the Supplementary Figures S15, S16 and S24, we have included the citation to SGSeq [2] - the Bioconductor package for analyzing splice events from RNA-seq data, in the Supplementary Materials, we have prepared a section explaining abbreviations used in the subsequent Supplementary Figures. References [1] Charlotte Soneson, Katarina L Matthes, Malgorzata Nowicka, Charity W Law, and Mark D Robinson. Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biology, 17(1):1–15, 2016. [2] Leonard D Goldstein, Yi Cao, Gregoire Pau, Michael Lawrence, Thomas D Wu, Somasekar Seshagiri, and Robert Gentleman. Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS ONE, 11(5):e0156132, may 2016. Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage (DTU), which accounts for not only differential splicing but also the differences in transcription start sites and differential transcript termination. In the QTL analysis, as we test for associations between genotypes and transcript usage and not only splicing, following your suggestion, we have also changed the term from splicing QTLs (sQTLs) to transcript usage QTLs (tuQTLs). We have addressed all the other minor comments which include: defining the abbreviations of profile likelihood (PL) and adjusted profile likelihood (APL), adding the sample size information about the simulations from Soneson et al. [1], in order to remove the misleading suggestion that DEXSeq fits GLMs only in the complex designs, we have changed the names of the models used in real data analysis from "model full glm" to "model full 2" and paraphrased the corresponding manuscript sections, we have included results for the panels with missing data in the Supplementary Figures S15, S16 and S24, we have included the citation to SGSeq [2] - the Bioconductor package for analyzing splice events from RNA-seq data, in the Supplementary Materials, we have prepared a section explaining abbreviations used in the subsequent Supplementary Figures. References [1] Charlotte Soneson, Katarina L Matthes, Malgorzata Nowicka, Charity W Law, and Mark D Robinson. Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biology, 17(1):1–15, 2016. [2] Leonard D Goldstein, Yi Cao, Gregoire Pau, Michael Lawrence, Thomas D Wu, Somasekar Seshagiri, and Robert Gentleman. Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS ONE, 11(5):e0156132, may 2016. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 13 Jun 2016 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 2 (revision) 06 Dec 16 read Version 1 13 Jun 16 read read Alejandro Reyes , European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany Robert Castelo , Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona, Spain Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Castelo R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 20 Dec 2016 | for Version 2 Robert Castelo , Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona, Spain 0 Views copyright © 2016 Castelo R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I appreciate that the authors have made an effort to address my comments and I'm particularly happy to see that my suggestion to check the overlap of tuQTLs with splice site binding sites reveals an improved enrichment by DRIMSeq. I also understand now the decision you took about not using the 'SummarizedExperiment' class. For the future development of DRIMSeq you may want to consider using the MultiAssayExperiment class ( http://bioconductor.org/packages/MultiAssayExperiment ) that allows multiple assay types over multiple sample sets. The authors say that it is not worth made a comparison with Cufdiff because in the study by Soneson 1 et al. (2016), where both authors of DRIMSeq were involved, Cudiff was very conservative in detecting differential isoform/transcript usage (DTU). In that paper the authors assess DTU by switching the two most abundant isoforms and show that Cufdiff has a low true positive rate (TPR) at small magnitudes of the difference in relative abundance between the two most abundant isoforms per gene. However, in Supplementary Figure 10 of that paper, the authors show that at larger magnitudes of that difference, the TPR of Cufdiff improves substantially while correctly controlling the false discovery rate (FDR). In this paper the authors assess DTU following the same strategy of switching the two most abundant isoforms and I think it would be again very interesting to see how Cufdiff and DRIMSeq compare at different magnitudes of the change in isoform usage. The authors also argue that Frazee 2 et al. (2014) find that Cuffdiff is very conservative. However, as far as I understand that paper, Frazee and co-workers are not evaluating DTU but differential transcript expression (DTE), and therefore, in my view, the experiments conducted on that paper do not warrant the conclusion that Cufdiff is overly conservative for DTU. The authors decided not to perform an enrichment analysis of tuQTLs on ESEs and ESSs because Lalonde 3 et al. (2011) concluded that ESE predictions themselves are a poor indicator of the effect of SNPs on splicing patterns. However, Lalonde and co-workers scored ESE motifs with ESEfinder 3.0 (Cartegni 4 et al. 2003), a method based on SELEX experiments conducted about 10 years ago and I would expect some advance in this field in the last decade. A recent study that seems to successfully use more recent ESE and ESS data to assess their enrichment with respect to polymorphisms is Supek 4 et al. (2014). While these two aspects remain, in my opinion, open, I think the statistical model of DRIMSeq proposed for DTU makes a lot sense and people interested in addressing biological questions that involve DTU should give it try, and I'm happy to approve the paper. References 1. Soneson C, Matthes KL, Nowicka M, Law CW, et al.: Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biol . 2016; 17 : 12 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Frazee AC, Pertea G, Jaffe AE, Langmead B, et al.: Flexible isoform-level differential expression analysis with Ballgown. bioRxiv . 2014. 003665 Publisher Full Text 3. Lalonde E, Ha KC, Wang Z, Bemmo A, et al.: RNA sequencing reveals the role of splicing polymorphisms in regulating human gene expression. Genome Res . 2011; 21 (4): 545-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Supek F, Miñana B, Valcárcel J, Gabaldón T, et al.: Synonymous mutations frequently act as driver mutations in human cancers. Cell . 2014; 156 (6): 1324-35 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Castelo R. Peer Review Report For: DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1356 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11139.r18253) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v2#referee-response-18253 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Castelo R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 06 Jul 2016 | for Version 1 Robert Castelo , Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona, Spain 0 Views copyright © 2016 Castelo R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This article introduces a new statistical method, called DRIMSeq and implemented in a R/Bioconductor package of the same name, to detect isoform expression changes between two conditions from RNA-seq data. The same method can be used to search for significant associations between SNPs and isoform quantifications obtained also from RNA-seq data (sQTLs). The main novelty of this method with respect to the existing literature on this problem, is the joint modelling of transcript quantification values derived from isoforms of the same gene, by using a Dirichlet-multinomial model. This allows the method to account of the intrinsic dependency between quantification values of these isoforms. The assessment of DRIMSeq on differential isoform usage provides a comparison of its performance with DEXSeq 1 , a statistical method for differential exon inclusion from RNA-seq data, as function of two different "isoform" quantification strategies: exonic-bin (not really "isoform") count values calculated with HTSeq and transcript-quantification values calculated with kallisto 2 . The experimental results make perfect sense, DRIMSeq works better than DEXSeq with transcript-quantification values and DEXSeq works better than DRIMSeq with exonic-bin count values. However, while both methods, and both types of "isoform" quantification input data, allow one to study the post-transcriptional processing of RNA transcripts, the kind of questions that can be addressed with each of them are different. Exonic-bin count values and DEXSeq can be used to investigate differential exon inclusion across conditions, which is a consequence of differential isoform usage, while transcript-quantification values and DRIMSeq can be used to directly investigate differential isoform usage. A potentially interesting outcome of this comparison in the paper could be some sort of guidelines about when is it more sensible to investigate differential exon inclusion or differential isoform usage, depending on factors such as the biological question at hand, sequencing depth or number of biological replicates. However, this is apparently beyond the scope of this paper and the experimental results are in principle geared towards convincing the reader that DRIMSeq improves on existing approaches to discover changes in isoform usage, as suggested in the abstract. In my view, the experimental results do not address this question and I would suggest the authors to compare DRIMSeq with methods that also work with transcript-quantification values and assess differential isoform usage such as, for instance, Cuffdiff 3 or sleuth 4 . The experimental results on searching for sQTLs compare favourably DRIMSeq with an existing tool for that purpose, sQTLseekR 5 . Evaluating performance in this context is challenging and the idea of assessing enrichment with respect to splicing-related features is a good one. However, the (two) presented features in Table 1 could be made more precise. It is unclear that a SNP close to a GWAS hit should be necessarily related to splicing and it is also unclear why one should expect splicing-related enrichment more than a few hundred nucleotides away from the intervening exon. While it is technically interesting to see a method being used to address two completely different research questions, in my view, mixing both types of analyses makes the article less focused. I would argue that both questions deserve separate papers, and that would allow the authors to investigate in depth critical aspects of both types of analysis that are currently not addressed in the current article. In summary, this article provides an interesting new methodology for the analysis of differential isoform usage from RNA-seq data, it is well-written and the implemented software runs smoothly and is well documented. However, in my view, the current experimental results of the article are not that informative for the reader to learn what advantages DRIMSeq provides over other tools for differential isoform usage analysis, and to decide whether he/she should be doing a differential isoform usage, or a differential exon inclusion analysis, if this were a goal of the comparison with DEXSeq. Minor comments: I would replace the term "edgeR ideology" in page 5 by "edgeR strategy". In page 9 it is described that the distributions of raw p-values shown in Supplementary Figures S28 and S29 fit "better" when derived from transcript quantification values than from exonic-bin count values, but in fact in both cases the distributions are non-uniform for p-values distributed under the null hypothesis. This can be easily shown with the data from vignette of the DRIMSeq package when skipping the step that reduces the transcript set to analyze to speed up the building time of the vignette. This is not openly discussed in the paper but I would argue that it is quite critical to know under what technical assumptions the proposed hypothesis test leads to uniform raw p-values under the null, as this has a direct consequence on the control of the probability of the type-I error. The sQTL analysis described in pages 9, 10 and 11 uses transcript-quantification values from FluxCapacitor. If the entire first part of the paper shows the performance metrics of DRIMSeq using kallisto, in my view, it would make more sense to use kallisto for this analysis as well. With regard to the implementation in the R/Bioconductor software package DRIMSeq, the authors have implemented a specialized S4 object class called 'dmDSdata' to act as a container for counts and information about samples. Since the package forms part of the Bioconductor project, I think it would better for both, the end-user and the developer authors, that the package re-uses the 'SummarizedExperiment' class as container for counts and sample information. This would facilitate the integration of DRIMSeq into existing or new workflows for the analysis of RNA-seq data. As an example of the limitations derived from providing a completely new specialized object class, the dimensions of a 'dmDSdata' object in terms of number of features and number of samples cannot be figured out using the expected call to the 'dim()' accessor method. Of course the authors may add that method to the 'dmDSdata' object class but, in general, there are obvious advantages derived from enabling data interoperability through the use of common data structures across Bioconductor software packages 6 . References 1. Anders S, Reyes A, Huber W: Detecting differential usage of exons from RNA-seq data. Genome Res . 2012; 22 (10): 2008-17 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Bray NL, Pimentel H, Melsted P, Pachter L: Near-optimal probabilistic RNA-seq quantification. Nat Biotechnol . 2016; 34 (5): 525-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Trapnell C, Hendrickson DG, Sauvageau M, Goff L, et al.: Differential analysis of gene regulation at transcript resolution with RNA-seq. Nat Biotechnol . 2013; 31 (1): 46-53 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Pimentel H: Differential analysis of RNA-Seq incorporating quantification uncertainty. bioRxiv . 2016; 058164 . Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 5. Monlong J, Calvo M, Ferreira PG, Guigó R: Identification of genetic variants associated with alternative splicing using sQTLseekeR. Nat Commun . 2014; 5 : 4698 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Huber W, Carey VJ, Gentleman R, Anders S, et al.: Orchestrating high-throughput genomic analysis with Bioconductor. Nat Methods . 2015; 12 (2): 115-21 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 06 Dec 2016 Mark Robinson, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. DEXSeq is a package designed for the differential exon usage (DEU) and returns exon-level p-values, which can be also summarized to the gene level. In principle, DEXSeq ’s implementation could be used to address the question of differential isoform/transcript usage (DTU) as well, which was done, for example, in the simulation study by Soneson et al. [1]. They use different counting strategies, among them transcript quantifications from kallisto [2], coupled with DEXSeq ’s differential engine to detect differential transcript usage. DRIMSeq , based on the Dirichlet-multinomial model, was developed to detect differential usage of any kind of multivariate genomic features at the gene-level. Thus potentially, both DEXSeq and DRIMSeq can be applied to exon counts and to transcript quantifications. However, from our comparisons, which were performed at the gene-level, the performance of DEXSeq and DRIMSeq is different on these different types of counts. DEXSeq performs better on exon counts and DRIMSeq on transcript counts. We have not used Cuffdiff [3] in our comparisons here because in the study by Soneson et al. [1], it performed poorly compared to DEXSeq . In particular, Cuffdiff was very conservative having low false discovery rate (FDR) at the cost of very low power for detecting DTU. The conservative nature of Cuffdiff for differential transcript expression, was also pointed out by Frazee et al. [4]. We decided to compare DRIMSeq only to the top performing method, DEXSeq . The other tool proposed by the Reviewer, sleuth [5], is meant for differential transcript expression analyses, not DTU. The scope of this paper was not to justify exon or transcript level analysis, for that one could refer to the comparison paper by Hooper [6], but to propose a methodologically-sound tool for differential isoform usage analysis or detect transcript usage QTLs based on transcript quantifications. We propose to use DRIMSeq since it outperformed DEXSeq in this type of analysis and there are no other tools for differential transcript usage that were intended for transcript level quantifications from the latest generation of fast quantification tools, such as kallisto [2] or Salmon [7]. Importantly, DEXSeq returns p-values per feature (exon or transcript), which can be also summarized to the gene level. DRIMSeq performs gene-level tests and returns p-values per gene only. When the interest is in detecting specific exons or isoforms that change, one should use DEXSeq because currently DRIMSeq does not provide any post hoc analysis (although in many cases, the relevant information can be deduced from looking at the relative transcript expression from DRIMSeq ’s plots). We have not investigated the differences in performance due to sequencing depth or number of biological replicates, but we believe that the requirements would be basically the same in these terms for both of the methods. What matters is the completeness of annotation. Detecting DTU based on exon counts is generally more robust than that based on transcript quantifications when the annotation is incomplete, which was investigated in detail by Soneson et al. [1]. To compare the performance of DRIMSeq and sQTLseekeR , we use the splicing-related features that were also used in the sQTLseekeR paper [8] to compare sQTLseekeR against other methods. The Reviewer suggested to consider other splicing-related features, such as exonic splicing enhancers (ESEs), exonic splicing silencers (ESSs) and splice sites. We have added the frequency of tuQTL overlapping with the splice sites to Table 1. However, we have not performed analyses on ESEs and ESSs since Lalonde et al. [9] concluded from their study that "ESE predictions themselves are a poor indicator of the effect of SNPs on splicing patterns". By addressing differential splicing and sQTLs in one paper, our aim was to show that methods used for these analyses are based on statistical approaches that in the end tackle ultimately the same question: differential splicing between conditions. Both analyses employ the same methods for gene feature quantification and potentially one main differential engine could be used with slight analysis- specific adjustments, such as information sharing between genes for small sample size data or using genotypes as grouping factor, which is done in DRIMSeq . We believe we have addressed in sufficient depth aspects of both of these analyses providing comparisons on simulated and real data. Addressing the minor comments: We have replaced the term "edgeR ideology" in page 5 by "edgeR strategy". As suggested, we have investigated in more depth, based on simulations from the DM model, the DRIMSeq p-value distributions under the null hypothesis of no differential transcript usage (Figures 1, S4, S6, S11, S14). Overall, using the Cox-Reid adjusted profile likelihood and the dispersion moderation leads to p-value distributions that in most cases are closer to the uniform distribution (Figures 1D, S4 and S11). The better fit of the DM model to transcript counts in comparison to exon counts can be seen in Figure S14, where the p-value distributions are more uniform for simulations that mimic kallisto counts than for simulations that mimic HTseq counts. Yes, using kallisto counts would be more consistent with the rest of our manuscript. Nevertheless, we decided to to use the Flux Capacitor counts because they were already available on the GEUVADIS project website and have been used extensively in other projects, for example, in the sQTLseekeR paper. Moreover, we think that using other counts should not affect the comparison between DRIMSeq and sQTLseekeR. We had already considered the SummarizedExperiment class while developing the DRIMSeq package. However, it does not provide features and functionality that we need for storing the count data and DRIMSeq results. In particular, the dimensions of Assays in SummarizedExperiment must be the same. That is not the case for us for two reasons. Firstly, each gene has multiple transcripts and, for example, the table with proportion estimates per transcript is larger than a table with dispersion estimates which are available per gene. Second, in the QTL analysis, table with transcript counts has different dimensions than table with genotypes. Additionally, we use matrices instead of data frames to store our data because the former occupies less space. Specifically, we have created a class called MatrixList, which is adjusted to store data where each gene has multiple features quantified and allows a quick access to these counts in per gene basis. We have not implemented the dim() method on dmDSdata or dmSQTLdata because we want to keep consistency between them and, for example, dmSQTLdata contains transcript counts and genotypes which have different dimensions. Thus we decided to make the dim() methods available for the counts and genotypes slots in these classes but not for the classes themselves. References [1] Charlotte Soneson, Katarina L Matthes, Malgorzata Nowicka, Charity W Law, and Mark D Robinson. Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biology, 17(1):1–15, 2016. [2] Nicolas L Bray, Harold Pimentel, Pall Melsted, and Lior Pachter. Near-optimal probabilistic RNA-seq quantification. Nat Biotech, advance on, Apr 2016. [3] Cole Trapnell, David G Hendrickson, Martin Sauvageau, Loyal Goff, John L Rinn, and Lior Pachter. Differential analysis of gene regulation at transcript resolution with RNA-seq. Nature biotechnology, 31(1):46–53, 2013. [4] A. C. Frazee, G. Pertea, a. E. Jaffe, B. Langmead, S. L. Salzberg, and J. T. Leek. Flexible isoform-level differential expression analysis with Ballgown. bioRxiv, pages 0–13, 2014. [5] Harold J Pimentel, Nicolas Bray, Suzette Puente, Páll Melsted, and Lior Pachter. Differential analysis of RNA-Seq incorporating quantification uncertainty. bioRxiv, Jun 2016. [6] Joan E Hooper. A survey of software for genome-wide discovery of differential splicing in RNA-Seq data. Human genomics, 8:3, 2014. [7] Rob Patro, Geet Duggal, and Carl Kingsford. Salmon: Accurate, Versatile and Ultrafast Quantification from RNA-seq Data using Lightweight-Alignment. bioRxiv, page 021592, 2015. [8] Jean Monlong, Miquel Calvo, Pedro G. Ferreira, and Roderic Guigó. Identification of genetic variants associated with alternative splicing using sQTLseekeR. Nature Communications, 5(May):4698, Aug 2014. [9] Emilie Lalonde, Kevin C H Ha, Zibo Wang, Amandine Bemmo, Claudia L Kleinman, Tony Kwan, Tomi Pastinen, and Jacek Majewski. RNA sequencing reveals the role of splicing polymorphisms in regulating human gene expression. Genome Research, 21(4):545–554, Apr 2011. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Castelo R. Peer Review Report For: DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1356 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9577.r14580) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v1#referee-response-14580 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Reyes A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 24 Jun 2016 | for Version 1 Alejandro Reyes , Genome Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany 0 Views copyright © 2016 Reyes A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Nowicka and Robinson propose a novel method, called DRIMSeq, to test for differential transcript usage between groups of samples using RNA-seq. The method is based on the Dirichlet-multinomial distribution. The authors evaluate different existing approaches to estimate the parameters of their model using simulated experiments with a small number of replicates, which is a common scenario of high-throughput sequencing experiments. Furthermore, Nowicka et al . provide a proof of principle of their method by applying it to both simulated and real RNA-seq data. They also compare the performance of DRIMSeq with DEXSeq and sQTLseekeR in detecting differential transcript usage and splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTLs), respectively. DRIMSeq shows high concordance with DEXSeq. Furthermore, the authors demonstrate that DRIMSeq performs better than DEXSeq when using transcript-level counts. DRIMSeq and sQTLseekeR were also highly concordant. Nevertheless, sQTL genes detected by DRIMSeq were expressed higher than those detected by sQTLseekeR, and sQTLs detected by DRIMSeq were in closer proximity to exons compared to sQTLs detected by sQTLseeker. DRIMSeq is implemented as an R/Bioconductor package. Overall, the manuscript is well presented and is scientifically sound. The description of the method is clear, the comparisons are fair, and the conclusions are supported by data and analyses. Below some minor comments: Transcription of multiple isoforms from a single gene can be the consequence of differences in the following molecular mechanisms: transcription start sites, splicing, and termination of transcription. The terms “differential splicing” and “splicing QTLs”, which are used throughout the manuscript and the package vignette, focus only on splicing. Consider a hypothetical example of an isoform switch between conditions in which the two isoforms only diverge by the transcription start site of the first exon. DRIMSeq should also detect this difference, and this would not be due to differential splicing. Thus, the authors could use more generic terminology that describes all possible interpretations of the outcome of their test. Perhaps “differential transcript usage” or “transcript usage QTLs”? In equations 6-11, PL and APL are understandable from the context but are not defined in the text. It would be useful for the reader to include more information of the simulated data from Sonseson et al . (2016) in the main text of this manuscript (for example, number of replicates per condition). The authors describe how DEXSeq can account for additional covariates in complex experimental designs. This paragraph, as well as the figures and supplementary material associated to it, could be understood as if DEXSeq fits GLMs only for complex experimental designs. In reality, DEXSeq always fits GLMs, even for simple two-group comparisons. There are some panels from the supplementary figures where data are missing. Specifically, Fig. S13 has 3 empty panels and Fig. S21 the left panels are missing the data for “dexseq.prefilter5” and “drimseq_genewise_grid_trended.filter5”. The list of software for splicing event quantification is already very extensive, however a citation to the Bioconductor package SGSeq (Goldstein et al. , 2016) could also be added. As for the readability of the supplementary information, some abbreviations are not defined in each supplementary figure caption. For example, in Fig. S5, n, m, DM, FP and nr_features are not defined in its caption (some of them, however, are defined in previous captions). Since many abbreviations repeat several times through the supplementary information, it would be useful to include a glossary of all abbreviations at the beginning of all supplementary figures. References 1. Soneson C, Matthes KL, Nowicka M, Law CW, et al.: Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biol . 2016; 17 : 12 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Goldstein LD, Cao Y, Pau G, Lawrence M, et al.: Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS One . 2016; 11 (5): e0156132 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 06 Dec 2016 Mark Robinson, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland Thank you for taking the time to read and review our paper. As per your suggestion, we have now stressed that DRIMSeq can be applied to differential transcript usage (DTU), which accounts for not only differential splicing but also the differences in transcription start sites and differential transcript termination. In the QTL analysis, as we test for associations between genotypes and transcript usage and not only splicing, following your suggestion, we have also changed the term from splicing QTLs (sQTLs) to transcript usage QTLs (tuQTLs). We have addressed all the other minor comments which include: defining the abbreviations of profile likelihood (PL) and adjusted profile likelihood (APL), adding the sample size information about the simulations from Soneson et al. [1], in order to remove the misleading suggestion that DEXSeq fits GLMs only in the complex designs, we have changed the names of the models used in real data analysis from "model full glm" to "model full 2" and paraphrased the corresponding manuscript sections, we have included results for the panels with missing data in the Supplementary Figures S15, S16 and S24, we have included the citation to SGSeq [2] - the Bioconductor package for analyzing splice events from RNA-seq data, in the Supplementary Materials, we have prepared a section explaining abbreviations used in the subsequent Supplementary Figures. References [1] Charlotte Soneson, Katarina L Matthes, Malgorzata Nowicka, Charity W Law, and Mark D Robinson. Isoform prefiltering improves performance of count-based methods for analysis of differential transcript usage. Genome Biology, 17(1):1–15, 2016. [2] Leonard D Goldstein, Yi Cao, Gregoire Pau, Michael Lawrence, Thomas D Wu, Somasekar Seshagiri, and Robert Gentleman. Prediction and Quantification of Splice Events from RNA-Seq Data. PLoS ONE, 11(5):e0156132, may 2016. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Reyes A. Peer Review Report For: DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1356 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9577.r14338) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v1#referee-response-14338 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v2&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Nowicka M and Robinson MD');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v2/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356",
 templates : {
 twitter : "DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count.... Nowicka M and Robinson MD, published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1356/v2"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Method Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: DRIMSeq: a Dirichlet-multinomial framework for multivariate count outcomes in genomics", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/8900/11139")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "11139");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "14338": 93,
 "14339": 0,
 "14340": 0,
 "14580": 91,
 "14341": 0,
 "14581": 0,
 "14342": 0,
 "18253": 39,
 "18254": 0,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "96264a17-5f8f-4ccf-8171-3cedbc9f5c42";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 