If the nike-fish material was composed of Sicyopterus , Bunaka , and Belobranchus species, the larvae must represent different shapes, for example, standard length, head length, preanal length, length of caudal peduncle, fin-ray counts (especially second dorsal, anal and pectoral fins), and fin shapes (especially pelvic fin). Although arrangements of the pigments scattering upon the body surface were shown in the Figure 3, melanophores along the dorsal and ventral midlines are more useful for identification. Morphological identification of these taxa are not difficult at least to the genus level. Please observe the morphologies of the specimens carefully before the molecular identification. Introduction Second paragraph: The first sentence should be “Nike (pronounced nee-k) is a local name for transparent postflexion larvae of fish, but it has not been identified to the species as well as the genus or family level.” If you or the local people actually used to know what it is, for example, they are young gobies, please write it. Does the “length” mean standard length or total length? Please specify, they are significantly different. Third paragraph: Yamasaki et al. (2011) provided key morphological characters (not only the melanophore patterns) to identify species of the newly hatched larvae (not for postflexion larvae and juveniles) of goby. They did not use genetic characters for the larval identification. Methods First paragraph: How did you identify the samples visually according to Yamasaki et al. (2011)? They described the morphologies of newly hatched larvae, not the postflexion larvae and juveniles. See the comment above. Was the collection site the sea, not the estuary? According to the Figure 2, it is marine environment, 150-200 m off from the coast. Second paragraph: Because the images have not been used in the manuscript, you don’t need to write the second sentence. Results First sentence: Please replace “five unspecified individuals” with “five unspecified types”. Sicyopterus pugnans is a species in Polynesia. So probably it is a misidentification. Please remind that the information in the database is not always correct. Indeed the Sicyopterus pugnans in the figure 4 is divided in to two clades. If they are different species, at least one of them is not the S. pugnans . Please consider the meaning of the results before trusting the information of the database blindly. Please suggest the possibility of misidentification in the Discussion. Melanophore patterns: As I wrote above, if the nike material was composed of Sicyopterus , Bunaka , and Belobranchus species, the larvae can be identified at least at the genus level by their morphologies. Please observe the specimens carefully before saying “same body shape”. Discussion I don’t agree with the last two sentences. Figure 1 Please write status of the larvae. Are they living, on ice, or fixed in 70% ethanol? The scale bar must be an error. The larvae are too big, if the bar indicates 3 cm. Please confirm. 