This is another case report of an interesting and complex HPS in the context of several comorbidities, such as COPD and bronchiectasis, let alone the coexistence of MAI infection, that each, all in combination or even one more than another entity, can cause arterial hypoxaemia, along with an incomplete differential diagnosis approach. All in all both the discussion and presentation are weak and modest which detract from the potential clinical interest of the case report. Behind this negative short review lie three major caveats. First, the lack of a better knowledge on gas exchange abnormalities in HPS is overwhelming despite that some of the quoted references (i.e., ref 7) masterly describe the pathophysiology of gas exchange alterations in HPS. Yet, the Authors miss a succinct good description. One of the reasons of this is that the Author is confounded by the use of the broad term of ‘shunting’ to encompass the three well established intrapulmonary determinants of arterial hypoxaemia in HPS (ventilation-perfusion imbalance, increased intrapulmonary shunt, and diffusion limitation to O2 transfer) quite thoroughly reported in a recent publication of the Amer Physiol Soc (Rodriguez-Roisin R, et al. 1 ). May I therefore suggest to the Author to take a look at this publication and make the appropriate changes in your paper. HPS is not a problem of ‘intrapulmonary shunting’, as it is repeatedly quoted, but a predominant ventilation-perfusion mismatching along with other additional altered pulmonary and non-pulmonary determinants of gas exchange (see also, Rodriguez-Roisin 2 ). Second, the Author does not afford the lung function testing of this lady, including the most likely smoking habits of his old patient which are completely ignored. As a result, we are in the middle of nowhere to grasp the comprehensive nature of her gas exchange abnormalities. Are these due to her severe chronic pulmonary problems (COPD with bronchiectasis), to HPS as the author is inclined to, without providing any rationale, or to a combination of both pulmonary and liver disorders (most likely). The lack of a proper differential diagnosis is another of the main gaps. I, for me, suggest to also read a very interesting paper focusing on cardiopulmonary comorbidities and HPS (Martinez GP, et al. 3 ) that may help the Author to improve his differential diagnosis. Moreover, the Author has completely neglected the relevant role of the alveolar-arterial oxygen partial pressure difference. With due respect, I suggest you read again ref 7, now more critically and more in detail! Third, I have to admit that although it is most likely that the arterial hypoxaemia of this old lady is due to a combination of lung and hepatic problems, there is a sentence in the Case Report that worries me. It says: ‘Soon after discharge, she was seen in a pulmonology clinic where treatment for MAI was commenced. When last seen a month afterward, the patient reported that she was tolerating her treatments well and felt improved since her hospital discharge’. This sentence makes me suspicious and questions me if the hypoxaemia is due to HPS for there are no pharmacological options for HPS so far. 