This paper, which is in the nature of a protocol paper, describes an ambitious three country (six city, 60 primary health care centre) study in Central and South America which seeks to compare the response to the implementation of a comprehensive support strategy for an alcohol screening and brief management approach (and also screening for depression) in comparison with a no support condition, adopting a quasi-experimental design for the comparison. The authors claim that this is the first such controlled study of this type based in middle-income countries. No results of pilot work in these countries are presented but the authors draw upon comparable work undertaken in Europe and the US. Specific Comments The following are points for the authors to consider: The introduction starts awkwardly with a description of the alternative ways of conceptualising alcohol misuse. Some of the later statements contradict what is stated earlier about the relationship between alcohol use disorder, alcohol dependence, harmful alcohol use, and risky drinking. What is needed particularly in a scale-up of alcohol screening and intervention is a simple conceptual model, and these exist. There is a natural hierarchy of (1) hazardous/risky drinking (i.e. without harm), (2) harmful drinking (i.e. with harm), and (3) alcohol dependence (where there is a psychobiological driving force to drink not seen in (1) or (2)). Some term the whole spectrum “alcohol misuse” and others “unhealthy alcohol use.” Indeed, such a composite entity was used as the reference standard against which the original AUDIT was gauged. For the definitive version of the paper, I would strongly suggest that the relevant sections of the introduction be reshaped. With regard to the “treatment gap” caution is advised about extrapolating too much from the findings of persons who have treatment to those who have or might not. The latter, although fulfilling the relevant diagnostic criteria, have less severe alcohol misuse and less psychiatric comorbidity and are less complex than those who get into treatment. Is there any work reported for the three countries selected on the professional supports available to PHC staff? These might include (1) clinical supervision, (2) specialist to generalist support – mentioned in the paper but I can’t see what this would mean - ? on site, by telephone, smartphone apps, (3) peer support – on site or city groupings, (4) administrative support. Is it known what PHC staff would like as an incentive to undertake this work? Reference is made to various scaling-up approaches but the paper would be strengthened by a description and discussion of the theoretical concepts underlying the framework proposed. How does the four-point framework relate to established implementation approaches, which help move organisations into the “early adopter” category? How do the principles of competitive advantage apply, because there will likely be competing proposals for PHC involvement in these countries e.g. childhood immunisation? The use of local “champions” is appropriate but what is the conceptual and empirical basis for this approach? Note that these comments do not refer to the IHI scale-up approach, which is about process. Alcohol screening and intervention outputs will be assessed by the AUDIT-C questionnaires completed and annotated. Depression screening (with the PHQ-9) and intervention is much less emphasised in the body of the paper. Do all the components of the implementation strategy apply equally to this? Will the investigators have access to medical records and PHC throughput data? Overall, this is a very ambitious and complex research program and I became concerned in reading it - in all its complexity - that it might not be achievable with staff who have no prior involvement in research and who are working in resource-constrained health care systems. For example, there is a statement “During all phases of the scale-up, we will document impact on other sectors (education, social care, criminal and justice, etc.) base on resource use measurement.” This is a huge additional amount of work. The paper would be more convincing (to this reviewer) if it were linked to budgetary inputs. I appreciate that the authors are seeking European Union funding. If this becomes available, the practicalities of doing this study could be set out much more clearly. Although there are approximately 160 references, an impressive number for a protocol paper, there are some surprising omissions, including work which has been specifically addressing implementation of alcohol interventions and including papers that were published from phases of the World Health Organization Implementation Studies and of which the authors of the present paper are also authors. An example is: Funk M, Wutzke S, Kaner E, Anderson P, Pas L, McCormick R, Gual A, Barfod S, Saunders JB. A multi-country controlled trial of strategies to promote dissemination and implementation of brief alcohol intervention in primary health care: Findings of a World Health Organization Collaborative Study. Journal of Studies on Alcohol 2005; 66: 379-388. 