In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting considering that it can analyze various types of PDF files from different scientific areas based on the keywords and coordinates. However, it lacks technical novelty over the published literatures and needs additional input on the image analysis section before indexing. Extraction of texts and images from scientific publications has been presented in various domains: computer science 1 , biomedical 2 - 4 , chemistry 5 , proteomics 6 and so on. The manuscript by Zeeshan Ahmed and Thomas Dandekar presents an incremental innovation without providing clear technological advancement in the field. The objective of performing both physical and logical structure analysis of all kinds of PDF files as mentioned in the manuscript has not been sufficiently supported by technological contribution described in Methods section. The image processing section the manuscript has been very brief. It does not provide any advanced image analysis technique as mentioned in the abstract. Authors should mention how exactly segmentation of figures and labels are performed and how they are represented to make logical connection between different entities in order to perform further analysis and customized visualization. The framework has been tested with a very small set of PDF files and no qualitative/quantitative result reporting the accuracy with respect to manually annotated files was presented. It would be good to increase the number test files and include the results of qualitative/quantitative analysis. Some of the figures (Figures 1, 3, 4 and 6) in the manuscript are hard to see the details in both online and print format. These figures could be reformatted. References 1. Clark C, Divvala S: Looking beyond text: Extracting figures, tables and captions from computer science papers. AAAI 2015 Workshop on Scholarly Big Data . 2015. Reference Source 2. Lopez LD, Yu J, Arighi CN, Huang H, et al.: An Automatic System for Extracting Figures and Captions in Biomedical PDF Documents. Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM), 2011 IEEE International Conference on . 2011. 578-581 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 3. Lopez LD, Yu J, Tudor CO, Arighi CN, et al.: Robust segmentation of biomedical figures for image-based document retrieval. Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (BIBM), 2012 IEEE International Conference on . 2012. 1-6 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 4. Lopez LD, Yu J, Arighi C, Tudor CO, et al.: A framework for biomedical figure segmentation towards image-based document retrieval. BMC Syst Biol . 2013; 7 Suppl 4 : S8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Choudhury SR, Mitra P, Kirk A, Szep S, et al.: Figure Metadata Extraction from Digital Documents. 2013 12th International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition . 2013. 135-139 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 6. Kou Z, Cohen WW, Murphy RF: Extracting information from text and images for location proteomics. Proceedings of the 3nd ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics (BIOKDD 2003) . 2003. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Hossain MJ. Reviewer Report For: MSL: Facilitating automatic and physical analysis of published scientific literature in PDF format [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2018, 4 :1453 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7898.r14625 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1453/v1#referee-response-14625 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Reader Comment 12 Apr 2017 Zeeshan Ahmed , Institute for Health, Health Care Policy and Aging Research, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, USA 12 Apr 2017 Reader Comment Reply: Thank you so much for your recommendations. In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting ... Continue reading Reply: Thank you so much for your recommendations. In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting considering that it can analyze various types of PDF files from different scientific areas based on the keywords and coordinates. Reply: Thanks. However, it lacks technical novelty over the published literatures and needs additional input on the image analysis section before indexing. Reply: Thanks for raising this point, we have revised and tried to make it more clearer . Extraction of texts and images from scientific publications has been presented in various domains: computer science1, biomedical2-4, chemistry5, proteomics6 and so on. The manuscript by Zeeshan Ahmed and Thomas Dandekar presents an incremental innovation without providing clear technological advancement in the field. The objective of performing both physical and logical structure analysis of all kinds of PDF files as mentioned in the manuscript has not been sufficiently supported by technological contribution described in Methods section. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. Its true that there have been many efforts from the past towards the same problem, and from different disciplines. We have taken a facile step by combining some of available technologies and tried to present a method, which can be adapted and further enhanced. To make our point more clearer, we have revised manuscript. The image processing section the manuscript has been very brief. It does not provide any advanced image analysis technique as mentioned in the abstract. Authors should mention how exactly segmentation of figures and labels are performed and how they are represented to make logical connection between different entities in order to perform further analysis and customized visualization. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. We agree with your point. We didn’t discuss and go in to details of algorithmic image presenting because we didn’t implement any algorithm for this work but tested and adopted some pre-existing OCR based libraries. We choose to go for commercial and licensed libraries because open source libraries and methods (we found) were unable to meet the developmental objectives this software. Without such details it is not possible to draw comparative (algorithmic, metrics based) conclusions. However, we give now a feature-based comparison in the results and discussion section of the manuscript. The framework has been tested with a very small set of PDF files and no qualitative/quantitative result reporting the accuracy with respect to manually annotated files was presented. It would be good to increase the number test files and include the results of qualitative/quantitative analysis. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised with additional details. We tested our system with similar parameters on randomly selected scientific manuscripts (ten PDF files) from different open access ( F1000Research, Frontiers, PLOS, Hindawi, PeerJ, BMC) and restricted access ( Oxford University Press, Springers, Emerald, Bentham Science, ACM) publishers. Some of the figures (Figures 1, 3, 4 and 6) in the manuscript are hard to see the details in both online and print format. These figures could be reformatted. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised Figures. Reply: Thank you so much for your recommendations. In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting considering that it can analyze various types of PDF files from different scientific areas based on the keywords and coordinates. Reply: Thanks. However, it lacks technical novelty over the published literatures and needs additional input on the image analysis section before indexing. Reply: Thanks for raising this point, we have revised and tried to make it more clearer . Extraction of texts and images from scientific publications has been presented in various domains: computer science1, biomedical2-4, chemistry5, proteomics6 and so on. The manuscript by Zeeshan Ahmed and Thomas Dandekar presents an incremental innovation without providing clear technological advancement in the field. The objective of performing both physical and logical structure analysis of all kinds of PDF files as mentioned in the manuscript has not been sufficiently supported by technological contribution described in Methods section. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. Its true that there have been many efforts from the past towards the same problem, and from different disciplines. We have taken a facile step by combining some of available technologies and tried to present a method, which can be adapted and further enhanced. To make our point more clearer, we have revised manuscript. The image processing section the manuscript has been very brief. It does not provide any advanced image analysis technique as mentioned in the abstract. Authors should mention how exactly segmentation of figures and labels are performed and how they are represented to make logical connection between different entities in order to perform further analysis and customized visualization. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. We agree with your point. We didn’t discuss and go in to details of algorithmic image presenting because we didn’t implement any algorithm for this work but tested and adopted some pre-existing OCR based libraries. We choose to go for commercial and licensed libraries because open source libraries and methods (we found) were unable to meet the developmental objectives this software. Without such details it is not possible to draw comparative (algorithmic, metrics based) conclusions. However, we give now a feature-based comparison in the results and discussion section of the manuscript. The framework has been tested with a very small set of PDF files and no qualitative/quantitative result reporting the accuracy with respect to manually annotated files was presented. It would be good to increase the number test files and include the results of qualitative/quantitative analysis. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised with additional details. We tested our system with similar parameters on randomly selected scientific manuscripts (ten PDF files) from different open access ( F1000Research, Frontiers, PLOS, Hindawi, PeerJ, BMC) and restricted access ( Oxford University Press, Springers, Emerald, Bentham Science, ACM) publishers. Some of the figures (Figures 1, 3, 4 and 6) in the manuscript are hard to see the details in both online and print format. These figures could be reformatted. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised Figures. Competing Interests: No competing interests. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Reader Comment 12 Apr 2017 Zeeshan Ahmed , Institute for Health, Health Care Policy and Aging Research, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, USA 12 Apr 2017 Reader Comment Reply: Thank you so much for your recommendations. In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting ... Continue reading Reply: Thank you so much for your recommendations. In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting considering that it can analyze various types of PDF files from different scientific areas based on the keywords and coordinates. Reply: Thanks. However, it lacks technical novelty over the published literatures and needs additional input on the image analysis section before indexing. Reply: Thanks for raising this point, we have revised and tried to make it more clearer . Extraction of texts and images from scientific publications has been presented in various domains: computer science1, biomedical2-4, chemistry5, proteomics6 and so on. The manuscript by Zeeshan Ahmed and Thomas Dandekar presents an incremental innovation without providing clear technological advancement in the field. The objective of performing both physical and logical structure analysis of all kinds of PDF files as mentioned in the manuscript has not been sufficiently supported by technological contribution described in Methods section. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. Its true that there have been many efforts from the past towards the same problem, and from different disciplines. We have taken a facile step by combining some of available technologies and tried to present a method, which can be adapted and further enhanced. To make our point more clearer, we have revised manuscript. The image processing section the manuscript has been very brief. It does not provide any advanced image analysis technique as mentioned in the abstract. Authors should mention how exactly segmentation of figures and labels are performed and how they are represented to make logical connection between different entities in order to perform further analysis and customized visualization. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. We agree with your point. We didn’t discuss and go in to details of algorithmic image presenting because we didn’t implement any algorithm for this work but tested and adopted some pre-existing OCR based libraries. We choose to go for commercial and licensed libraries because open source libraries and methods (we found) were unable to meet the developmental objectives this software. Without such details it is not possible to draw comparative (algorithmic, metrics based) conclusions. However, we give now a feature-based comparison in the results and discussion section of the manuscript. The framework has been tested with a very small set of PDF files and no qualitative/quantitative result reporting the accuracy with respect to manually annotated files was presented. It would be good to increase the number test files and include the results of qualitative/quantitative analysis. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised with additional details. We tested our system with similar parameters on randomly selected scientific manuscripts (ten PDF files) from different open access ( F1000Research, Frontiers, PLOS, Hindawi, PeerJ, BMC) and restricted access ( Oxford University Press, Springers, Emerald, Bentham Science, ACM) publishers. Some of the figures (Figures 1, 3, 4 and 6) in the manuscript are hard to see the details in both online and print format. These figures could be reformatted. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised Figures. Reply: Thank you so much for your recommendations. In this manuscript authors presented a computational tool that extracts text and images from PDF files. In general the manuscript is interesting considering that it can analyze various types of PDF files from different scientific areas based on the keywords and coordinates. Reply: Thanks. However, it lacks technical novelty over the published literatures and needs additional input on the image analysis section before indexing. Reply: Thanks for raising this point, we have revised and tried to make it more clearer . Extraction of texts and images from scientific publications has been presented in various domains: computer science1, biomedical2-4, chemistry5, proteomics6 and so on. The manuscript by Zeeshan Ahmed and Thomas Dandekar presents an incremental innovation without providing clear technological advancement in the field. The objective of performing both physical and logical structure analysis of all kinds of PDF files as mentioned in the manuscript has not been sufficiently supported by technological contribution described in Methods section. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. Its true that there have been many efforts from the past towards the same problem, and from different disciplines. We have taken a facile step by combining some of available technologies and tried to present a method, which can be adapted and further enhanced. To make our point more clearer, we have revised manuscript. The image processing section the manuscript has been very brief. It does not provide any advanced image analysis technique as mentioned in the abstract. Authors should mention how exactly segmentation of figures and labels are performed and how they are represented to make logical connection between different entities in order to perform further analysis and customized visualization. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and please accept apologies for the confusion. We agree with your point. We didn’t discuss and go in to details of algorithmic image presenting because we didn’t implement any algorithm for this work but tested and adopted some pre-existing OCR based libraries. We choose to go for commercial and licensed libraries because open source libraries and methods (we found) were unable to meet the developmental objectives this software. Without such details it is not possible to draw comparative (algorithmic, metrics based) conclusions. However, we give now a feature-based comparison in the results and discussion section of the manuscript. The framework has been tested with a very small set of PDF files and no qualitative/quantitative result reporting the accuracy with respect to manually annotated files was presented. It would be good to increase the number test files and include the results of qualitative/quantitative analysis. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised with additional details. We tested our system with similar parameters on randomly selected scientific manuscripts (ten PDF files) from different open access ( F1000Research, Frontiers, PLOS, Hindawi, PeerJ, BMC) and restricted access ( Oxford University Press, Springers, Emerald, Bentham Science, ACM) publishers. Some of the figures (Figures 1, 3, 4 and 6) in the manuscript are hard to see the details in both online and print format. These figures could be reformatted. Reply: Thanks for raising this point and we have revised Figures. Competing Interests: No competing interests. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Thakar J. Reviewer Report For: MSL: Facilitating automatic and physical analysis of published scientific literature in PDF format [version 3; peer review: 2 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2018, 4 :1453 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7898.r11637 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1453/v1#referee-response-11637 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 13 Jan 2016 Juilee Thakar , Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7898.r11637 The manuscript titled “MSL: Facilitating automatic and physical analysis of published scientific literature in PDF format” addresses an important issue of extracting information from published manuscripts. However, the following issues must be clarified before indexing. In the text mining section authors ... Continue reading READ ALL 