A well written article with detailed methodology towards mapping genes to diseases. The method proposes to overcome the limitations of traditional approaches, which take single-label at a time. Authors approach uses structured prediction that takes into account related set of labels. Some general points for authors consideration: What is a possible, direct application of this method? How can this be integrated with other software tools or called as a service, for example? Different data sources have been used of which protein-protein interactions, for example, is a noisy one with false-interactions reported via experimental methods like co-precipitation and yeast-two-hybrid systems. Can the authors comment on how the quality of data affects their approach? How to deal with noisy data sources or reduce the weight of contribution from that particular data source? How easy is to update this, for example, integrating latest PubMed abstracts? Whats the pipeline or process to do so? Some specific points for authors to consider: Why do we expect more genes to be disease-causing? Is it just a general line of reasoning that functional genes should cause an aberrant phenotype if they do not work properly? Perhaps the authors can expand a bit more on the problem formulation - "therefore, it is important to explore the feasibility..." Under "Approach", perhaps the authors can explain a bit on HMC for the benefit of the readers. Also, a bit more on "structured prediction/learning" in layman terms or illustrated with an example can help the reader grasp the concept. Authors can consider simplifying this into shorter sentences for easy grasp - "An alternate approach is to use a single classifier..." Under "HPO annotations" - for general understanding, could the authors tell more about why they removed terms that were not annotated to 10 or more genes. Under "Literature" - abstracts extracted are from 2013 and not up to date with 2015. Under "Literature" - for general understanding, could the authors tell more about why they filtered to keep only the low frequency words. Under "variants" - does this data from Uniprot covers data sources like clinvar, dbGaP, GWAS studies etc? Under "Models", for the general understanding of the reader could the authors expand on what is meant by a structured model? Figure 3 - last part of panel is barely legible. Under "Evaluation" could the authors expand on whats implied by term-centric and protein-centric, F-max? "The human mitochondrial DNA... Due to this, and the relative..." - I am not sure if this is the reason. Authors can consider simplifying this into shorter sentences for easy grasp - "As a potential improvement to PHENOstruct..." I really liked the way authors dealt with "validating false positives" (text and table S5). Figure S1 - last part of panel is almost illegible. Supplementary material, "Performance Measures" - for the benefit of the readers, what does F-max mean in a literal, intuitive sense? Table S4 -- for the benefit of the readers, what is true-path rule, ground truth, macro AUC...? 