The abstract is clear and well structured according to the guidelines of the journal. The introduction properly explains how technology and surgery have to get along improving the surgical outcomes. However, I think it is crucial that the results provided should be explained in a scientific way. From this point of view, this article is a quite good attempt towards this direction. Looking at the extended materials attached data are well collected and presented in a precise way. I believe that having the chance to see the original data is a great opportunity for whoever wants to read an article and therefore I congratulate with the journal and the authors. The two cohorts of patients undergoing elective colo-rectal laparoscopic procedures are homogeneous in terms of tumor location, age, and sex and therefore are fully comparable. The authors are assuming that the introduction of new technology could have led to better surgical outcomes. The way they tried to prove it is a retrospective analysis that does not actually provide the best level of evidence. However, when you compare two different types of technologies, developing an RCT is really difficult and it could also be un-ethical. Taking a look at the results the authors depicted a reduction in blood loss and surgical time in favour of patients operated with the new technology. This result can be of some interest in its field even though cannot be considered conclusive of the comparison (as stated by the authors in the limitations). I think another important issue scoring a point for this trial is that it is not sponsored by the company providing the 4k technology. Usually, this kind of trial comes straight from the pharma. Here instead this bias can be solved by the fact that the authors conducted the study independently and therefore without having pressures from the providing company. We do not have to forget that the connection between clinical research and industry has lots of precious points but also lots of grey zones. The attempt done by the authors is from this point of view of great value and should be taken in serious consideration. From a purely practical point of view: This study is well understandable. Methods are clear and complete. Results are well explained and as previously said, they come together with the full amount of data. Statistics is good enough. The discussion could be implemented but still, there are not so many materials in the literature to compare these results with. This latter also shows how this simple study could be of some value/novelty. I consider the study suitable for indexing. 