This manuscript reports the results of treatment of patients with high-risk primary soft-tissue sarcomas of the extremities treated at Thailands’s national tertiary referral center. The report covers 58 patients treated over 10 years, 13 of whom received adjuvant chemotherapy. Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses are presented with a major emphasis on the potential beneficial effects of chemotherapy. Unfortunately, there are too few patients treated with chemotherapy to make any real conclusions; however the authors’ conclusions, based solely on statistical significance, are highly misleading and emphasize the pitfalls of overinterpretation of small data sets. The authors list median DFS and survival figures, but it is not clear how these were derived. Customarily, one uses the median from the Kaplan-Meier curves; but the median DFS and OS in the chemotherapy group from Figures 1 and 2 show that the median DFS and OS for the chemotherapy group has not been reached. One could argue that the improvement in DFS and OS is compelling, regardless of the statistical significance. It may be due to selection bias; but I don’t know how to select which patient with high-risk primary soft-tissue sarcoma is likely to do well, and if I did, that is not the patient I would subject to the toxicities of adjuvant chemotherapy. The authors would do better to present their data without the statistical analysis on the effects of chemotherapy simply stating that the small number of patients treated precludes adequate statistical analysis. I have some additional specific suggestions for improvement: In the abstract, the authors state, “Due to the heterogeneity of soft tissue sarcomas, conflicting data have been reported regarding treatment outcomes. Moreover, factors such as histologic subtype, treatment compliance, and treatment tolerability may influence outcomes of treatment.” I would eliminate the first part of the first sentence. First of all, it is not simply heterogeneity that accounts for conflicting data as the authors note in the second sentence. I would suggest, “Conflicting data have been reported regarding treatment outcomes of patients with primary soft-tissue sarcomas. Factors such as primary site, histologic subtype, treatment regimen, treatment compliance, and treatment tolerability may influence outcomes of treatment.” Figure 3 requires relabeling and better explanation. What is pattern 1 and 2? What are the authors trying to illustrate? The greater than sign did not show up in the PDF download. 