Tith et al. highlight the complexity of the analgesic management of labor and delivery in parturients receiving buprenorphine. The retrospective chart review details the peripartum course of 8 women on buprenorphine maintenance. Given the heterogeneity in patient demographics, buprenorphine dose, analgesic regimen, mode of delivery, and neonatal outcomes, it is difficult to extract meaningful conclusions. The vast disparateness of the peripartum management of parturients on buprenorphine vividly demonstrates the need for evidence-based practice guidelines. Although the details of the individual patient’s peripartum course are interesting, the comprehensiveness of each description is distracting. Since the focus of the review is the analgesic management of labor and delivery on patients receiving buprenorphine, consider omitting extraneous maternal and neonatal details. The patients’ descriptions should conclude with discharge. Details such as “two weeks after delivery, patient was found pulseless…,” “patient stayed with her baby at the local children’s hospital…,” and “in the following days, she returned to clinic requesting opioids due to breast pain” detract from the intention of the review. Similarly, the specifics of the neonate’s postdelivery course (i.e. diagnosis of imperforate anus) are irrelevant. Concise reconstruction of the results section will highlight the focus of this review. Tables 1-4 are not referred to in the text. Without further explanation of the tables in the text, it is unclear what information the table is intended to convey. Table 2 (Labor Analgesia Data) is a bit misleading. For patient 1, the table indicates the patient had a CSE for labor that required no “top-ups” and resulted in a VAS score of zero. According to the results section, patient 1 had a failed single shot spinal, followed by a CSE, and ultimately needed a general anesthetic for cesarean delivery. This seems to suggest that the patient never received labor analgesia but rather the CSE was placed for surgical anesthesia. The absences of a comprehensive legend for Table 3 makes it challenging to interpret. Twelve abbreviations are used in Table 3 which are not defined until the following page. Consider including a key to the abbreviations in the table legend. In addition, since respiratory depression did not occur in any parturient, consider removing it from the table. The discussion section would be more meaningful if it offered some interpretation of the data rather than summarizing the results presented in the previous section. Specifically, why did 3 of the 5 women undergoing cesarean delivery have a general anesthetic? Based on the limited experience, what is the optimal labor analgesia regimen? Post vaginal delivery pain regimen? Post-operative regimen? Neonatal implications of intrauterine exposure to buprenorphine? Tith et al.’s retrospective review of the periparturm course of parturients dependent on buprenorphine illustrates the heterogeneity of analgesic regimens for labor and delivery. The review highlights the need for research to help develop protocols and standards. 