Several improvements have been made in the revised manuscript, but there are still points to be improved. First, as suggested previously, very low survival rate of untreated cells in Figure 1 and 2 makes the results less convincing. For example, while approximately 80% untreated cells survived after 48 hours, only 25% of untreated cells (control) survived and more than 50% of untreated cells underwent apoptosis (early + late) after 24 hours in Figure 2B. These results are obviously weird and maybe due to inappropriate assay conditions or something else. The detected apoptosis in untreated cells is too large to be considered as “false positives”. In the case of experimental biology, variations among samples can result from biological variations or technical errors related to the method used. In general, the biological variations are larger than the technical variations. Thus, it is necessary to repeat the whole experiment independently several times. The authors stated that triplicate measurements were done in parallel in this study, but it appears that they might consider only technical variations. Carrying out independent repetition to check the reproducibility of the results is the best way to verify their findings and avoid the existence of “false positives” in their data. Second, if the hypothesis was supported after verifying the findings, the authors might do additional experiments to confirm it. Regarding this point, the authors have carried out experiments by using another reagent, an active caspase-3 antibody, to confirm the Annexin V results. However, their findings obtained in this study merely relies solely on one methodology, flow cytometry. Generally, experimental biology studies confirm findings by using combinations of several different methods and assays. Therefore, it would be better for the authors to verify their findings by using another method different from flow cytometry, for example, showing apoptotic cell images obtained by a fluorescent microscope. Minor points: Figures 1 and 2 They look confusing, because each element of the graphs is not arranged as usual. It is better to exclude the bars indicating viable cell populations from the Figures. Showing only dead cell populations (early apoptosis, late apoptosis, and necrosis) appears to be sufficient, because viable cell populations indicate merely the rest of dead cell populations. Furthermore, usually the authors show the results from left to right in order of things occurring. That is, early apoptosis first on left, then late apoptosis, and necrosis on right (not very important). Finally, it would be better to reverse the order of the bars indicating Areca nut and control, i.e. control on left and Areca nut on right. Figure 3 The authors should make the similar changes as mentioned as to Figures 1 and 2. First, showing only right panels, i.e. caspase-3 (+) of 24 h and 48 h, is sufficient, because left panels, i.e. caspase-3 (-), indicates only the rest of cell populations shown in right panels, i.e. these indicate the same meaning. Second, it would be better to reverse the order of the bars indicating Areca nut and control.