It is well established that proteasomal degradation declines during aging in different cell culture systems and model organisms. Therefore, it is of general interest whether such activity changes are conserved throughout evolution. Here, the authors analyzed mRNA levels of the 20S proteasomal core subunits PaPre2, PaPre3, and the proteasomal assembly factor PaUmp1 as well as protein levels of PaPRE2, PaPRE3, and PaPUP1 in the fungus P. anserina . The experiments are convincing and well described. Surprisingly, the authors did not find any age-dependent differences with respect to the investigated proteasomal factors. However, as measuring proteasomal activity directly did not work, it remained unclear whether a decline in protein turnover is directly linked to aging in this model organism. As highlighted by the authors, other factors including ubiquitin ligases, deubiquitylation enzymes, the 19S regulatory particle, or post-translational modifications of these factors might be even more limiting for ubiquitin-dependent degradation and regulated with age in the fungus. In this context the authors could have discussed the finding that in C. elegan s and human stem cells overexpression of the regulatory subunit RPN-6 is sufficient to reduce the amount of toxic protein aggregates and increase life span (Vilchez et al . 2012). The authors state that protein levels of PaPUP1 did not change during aging and paraquat treatment. However, western blot analysis of figure 1B shows increased PaPUB1 levels in 21 day old cultures that were treated with paraquat compared to either paraquat treated young cultures or untreated old cultures. This does not necessarily reflect an age- or stress-dependent increase in PaPUB1 levels in P. anserina , but could be explained by a selective survival of fungi with higher PaPUB1 levels under toxic stress conditions. This study nicely confirms the impression that P. anserine exhibits high basal rates of autophagy in contrast to other organisms and thus might serve as an excellent model organism for studying the role of autophagy under different physiological conditions. Given the elevated level of autophagy, this organism however might not be optimal for the investigation of age-dependent changes in the ubiquitin/proteasome system that is relevant for higher organisms.