This paper provides an important advance in the study of spatial proteomics. Through the use of Monte Carlo sampling the authors are able to provide evaluations of uncertainty by using the T-augmented Gaussian mixture model proposed by Crook et al. The authors have been careful to provide all the code and the relevant data are included in the package 'pRolocdata'. Although the focus is on the spatial localisation of proteins, the authors only study the probabilities of correct localizations and do not show a spatial plot of the probabilities so one does not see clearly how the probabilities vary spatially. First Issue: PCA plots a) Ratios: There are a few corrections needed to the figures that show PCA plots. It is probably not worth showing the percentages of variance up to two decimal digits, however it is important to respect the axes relative scale and units. For instance, since the ratio of variances in Figure 1 is 40:25 the plot should be rectangular, this is more egregious in Figures 2, especially the right side panel. I suggest making the figures on top of each other so they are not narrow (For a reference see Chapter 7 of the book 1 that explains why usually PCA plots should be rectangular and not square). b) Construction of ellipses on the PCA plots in Figure 2 is very confusing. These cannot be the posterior distributions and their construction presupposes there is a relevant multivariate normal distribution which I do not think is justified here. Second Issue: Bayesian computations a) Priors In the "Aside" subsection on priors, I suggest exploring the possibility of using prior data to construct a prior as in practical situations this is often how pragmatic Bayesians think about building priors. I think it is worth supporting the statement that the posterior is overwhelmed by the data with a small example. This could be done following the type of process recommended by Betancourt who gives very good examples of the effect of priors through the use of posterior predictive distributions (see here https://betanalpha.github.io/assets/case_studies/principled_bayesian_workflow.html#24_model_adequacy ). b) Convergence diagnostics The use of trace plots and Gelman and Rubin's Rhat can be quite confusing and can only show non-convergence, the current version puts too much emphasis on a few short runs. The authors have shown some chains that have not converged but do not mention that the contemporary literature is much more careful of how small the Rhat should be, see the preprint by Vats,D and Knudson, C 2018 2 and the discussions by Dan Simpson and Andrew Gelman for instance (https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2019/03/19/maybe-its-time-to-let-the-old-ways-die-or-we-broke-r-hat-so-now-we-have-to-fix-it/), the preprint is on the arXiv 3 . Third Issue: Visualization of results: Figure 8 does not show the uncertainty in an intuitive way. It is very hard to differentiate the size of the dots on the left hand plot and the dots give the impression of a circular posterior distribution which is incorrect. The reference Ren et al, 2017 4 contains several examples of posterior confidence contours that communicate uncertainty in a more precise way which enables the comparisons of uncertainty across different locations in the PCA. It would also be illuminating if the authors could make a plot with uncertainty contours as a function of the underlying spatial coordinates. 