The article contains a descriptive analysis of some characteristics of Post-Authorisation Studies registered in the ENCePP EU PAS Register. It’s clearly written and informative within the limited scope the authors set out to study. There are a number of issues that might benefit from further clarification. Major issues The 314 included studies were on 18 th October 2016 contained in the ENCePP EU PAS Register AND concerned a PAS requested by EMA. That makes the reader wonder how many PAS requested by EMA (since a suitable date) were not contained in the Register. And also how many studies contained in the Register were not requested by EMA. In other words: how selective is the sample studied? The conclusions come as a surprise because no explicit study questions or hypotheses were formulated. Furthermore, the conclusions are overstated in the sense that both the cross-sectional nature and the lack of a statistical (multivariable) data-analysis make a causal interpretation (‘influence’) unwarranted. A serious study limitation is that no checks are done (for the completed studies) for non-publication, and for selective publication and other discrepancies between protocol and publication for the published studies. Minor issues Please explain better what is meant by PAS. Most readers will probably be more familiar with terms like ‘postmarketing surveillance’ and ‘phase IV trials’. I assume that entries in the Registry need to be made before the start of data collection. And also that later changes (amendments) to the protocol cannot be made without leaving traces (log file). But this is not clearly explained in the current version of the article. The Introduction section suggests that the European pharmacovigilance legislation was introduced to foster transparency and methodological quality of the Post-Authorization Studies. That may be correct, but the current study says very little on transparency and nothing about the methodological quality of PAS. The first sentence of the Discussion section suggests that this article will ‘likely be used as reference for future PAS designs’. It completely escapes me why this would be so. 