In this manuscript, the authors present a software for testing the specificity of oligonucleotide probe-sets that is integrated into the sequence analysis software ARB with a focus on microbial ecology. The software allows for batch-scoring the specificity of probe-sets using a bell-shaped scoring function based on the distance from the center of the probe, with several user-definable parameters. The application domain of the new functionality is timely because high-throughput methods that rely on oligonucleotide probes are becoming more and more common. The article is overall well written, but lacking with respect to the description of the methodology, state of the art, and depiction of software development and code. For the sake of a comprehensive evaluation, I have tested the ARB software using the latest development build 6.1.rev17491and the author-provided dataset in a virtual machine under Linux Mint 9. Major Concerns: The authors present a new scoring function that introduces bell-shaped weights of mismatches depending on the distance to center base of the probe. It is unclear what the motivation for using this function is, and what underlying assumptions are that it is based on, or if has been used in the literature before. I assume it is trying to compensate for some hybridization effects, but these might also vary between technologies. Other publications have discussed thermodynamic parameters instead, see e.g. Kabilov et al. 1 . It should also be made more clear, if and how the user can specify parameters, adjust them to the assay or how to use a flat scoring function instead. The authors claim that their software is the first tool for batch testing, which might be true. However, with respect to the new scoring functions, authors should still compare their estimates to other existing tools. Searching for other tools I found probeCheck 2 , which is an online-tool also using ARB as a back-end, but allows display of max 10 results at a time, and does not allow to use custom databases, but the outcomes could be comparable for the same probe set. As ProbeSpec is part of large software package and is only obtainable as a component it is hard to evaluate the contribution by source code. It should be clearly pointed out which files of the ARB distribution contain the source code of ProbeSpec or possibly provide a separate (e.g. git) repository that contains the sources. The functional test completes properly, but I noticed that the probe set is loaded and match parameters could be set under Edit which is a bit confusing (substitution matrix, shape parameters). It should be better explained in the UI that these are matching parameters. Minor concerns: S=− In(10) in Equation (2), should it be ln(10) for logarithm (L vs. I) Even though it is an aspect of the software which cannot be changed easily, I would like to question the use of ARB as the software platform. The appearance of the user interface is archaic, while this might be dismissed as cosmetics, worse so the build system is arcane too. While I was finally able to compile the latest ARB revision including ProbeSpec from source under Linux Mint, this will be prohibitive for most users, mostly due to undocumented/not up to data dependencies (e.g. boost library never mentioned anywhere) including combined with the lack of a (e.g. autoconf generated) configure script. Therefore, for most users the options are restricted running pre-compiled binaries to either Debian, Linux Mint or a very old Ubuntu (10) release under a virtual machine, something not very timely in the age of Docker and containers. This is a pity because common package managers contain the latest stable ARB release 6.0.6, dating back to August 2016, but not containing ProbeCheck. I would therefore recommend to the authors to: contact the maintainers of ARB to get a new stable release out supporting popular OS', contribute to a complete and updated dependency list, or provide a containerized version of the whole system. 