Inhibition of the protein phosphatase PP2A contributes to the acquisition of a cancerous phenotype in cells. One mechanism by which the inhibition of PP2A can be achieved is through the up-regulation of endogenous inhibitors of PP2A such as CIP2A. However, the signaling pathways regulating CIP2A expression in cancer cells remain poorly defined. In this article, Anchit Khanna has studied the role of the different mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades in regulating the expression of CIP2A in the HT1080 human fibrosarcoma cell line. Treatment of HT1080 cells with the pharmacological inhibitor SP600125 led to a drop in the mRNA and protein expression of CIP2A in HT1080 cells. SP600125 has often been used to implicate the protein kinases of the JNK family in the cellular process under study, but as pointed out by the author, this compound has many off-target effects. Anchit Khanna therefore attempted to validate the results using siRNA mediated knock-down of JNK1 and JNK2 expression in HT1080 cells. Unfortunately, CIP2A expression was normal in the cells in which JNK1 and/or JNK2 were depleted using siRNA oligos. The author concluded that the effects of SP600125 on CIP2A expression were not due to JNK1 or JNK2 inhibition, and stated the importance of validating experimental results using independent methods. The data as presented does not confirm or refute a role for the JNKs in regulating CIP2A expression in HT1080 cells, as alternative explanations for the data remain possible. For instance, the knock-down of JNK1 or JNK2 may not be sufficiently effective, leaving residual JNK1/2 catalytic activity in cells which drives the expression of CIP2A. Indeed, the data presented in figure 2A show that JNK1 expression was suppressed by only 50% and the author failed to show the level of JNK1 expression in the experiment depicted in figure 2C. In addition to blotting for the respective kinase, it would have also been informative in both the inhibitor and RNAi studies to measure the phosphorylation of a substrate such as c-Jun to verify that these treatments indeed blocked JNK function in HT1080 cells. It is also good practice to use structurally-unrelated protein kinase inhibitors to reduce the chance of off-target effects contributing to the phenotype under study. Since SP600125 entered the market, much improved JNK inhibitors have been developed such as JNK-in-8 (Zhang et al . 2012 Chem Biol). It would be worthwhile to test the effect of such compounds on CIP2A expression, which could help establish whether a role for JNKs exist in this pathway. The author is correct in stating that one must validate results using different approaches. I was therefore very surprised to read that the author concluded that CIP2A is involved in regulating the expression of JNK2 in HT1080 using a single approach. RNAi technology, like other methodologies, is fraught with off-target problems. It is essential to validate the results of these experiments by re-expressing the protein using an RNAi-resistant cDNA of CIP2A. This control experiment would strongly support the author’s conclusion that CIP2A controls JNK2 expression in HT1080 cells. I acknowledge that these experiments are challenging and the author may be able to provide supporting evidence using alternative approaches to the one used in this article. Although the experiments are well performed, the study is incomplete and does not allow one to make a strong case for or against involvement of the JNKs in regulating CIP2A expression. Based on this assessment, I have scored this paper ‘Approved with Reservations’. Additional Minor Points: 1. The author omitted to indicate the statistical significance of the data in Figure 1A. 2. In a single author paper, one should not use the terms ‘we’ and ‘us’ rather ‘I’ and ‘me.’