This is a useful article for researchers who use focus groups, particularly those for whom online approaches may assist with overcoming barriers of geography, mobility or time constraints to ensure inclusion of hard-to-reach groups. Overall, it provides a number of useful tips and helpful discussion, however there are some issues which require clarification. It is unclear if the platform offered for focus group participation matched the mode of study that participants had completed. The second paragraph under the heading methods states that all students who completed the subject were contacted about participating in the research. Those who were interested were then asked about their preferred platform. There does not appear to have been any distinction made about whether students completed the study unit online or face to face. The first paragraph under the sub-heading ‘participants’ and researchers’ experience’ also seems to confirm this. However, the last part of the third paragraph under the same heading seems to suggest that participants were grouped for focus groups according to their mode of study – ie students who completed the unit face-to-face were assigned to face-to-face focus groups and online students to online focus groups. (“By way of example, a group assignment was discussed at length in all focus groups, but the difference in experience for face-to-face and online students could not have been starker…This contrast may have been missed had we not conducted the online focus groups”). Can the authors please clarify? If the mode of study was not matched to the focus group platform offered, the statement that the contrast would have been missed is not valid – it would be more a reflection of doing a sufficient number of focus groups, rather than offering participation through different platforms. Overall, I think the authors somewhat downplay the impact of several of the issues on the quality of data collected through online focus groups. The third paragraph on the second page suggests that use of web conferencing came close to approximating the experience of face-to-face groups, however the paragraph goes on to note that communication was slower, time was necessarily to resolve technical issues even after encouraging participants to log on and trouble shoot prior to commencement. Not only did this produce less data, but the issue of sound quality mentioned in the last paragraph on page two seems to also be significant – both because of the difficulty participants had hearing each other, and the difficulty of accurate transcription. In addition, one participant being forced to participate via chat would also have impacted on the aural and visual cues which the authors rightly note are an important component of focus groups. There is discussion about online participants being more likely to withdraw (either before or during focus groups), however given the very small sample, this should be treated with caution. I would suggest the most salient findings in terms of withdrawal are the challenge of technical difficulties forcing withdrawal, and also the possibility of participants having outside distractions from wherever they are participating, which obviously don’t exist in a dedicated face-to-face focus group environment. 