Pan-genome analysis always starts with some form of clustering of genes/features. It is fairly standard to limit this to protein coding genes as is done here. It is also fairly standard to cluster paralogs with orthologs as is done here, but I prefer ortholog clustering as is done with my tool PanOCT. The clustering method presented here is somewhat unique in its use of HMMs followed by CD-hit for proteins without HMM hits. This would make no attempt to separate in-paralogs from out-paralogs as some tools attempt. This approach also does not use a specific identity or similarity cutoff for homology clustering as some tools do - although for the CD-hit phase the parameters used tend to enforce a 60% similarity. There is no real justification given for the clustering used here. I tend to like the use of HMM domain architectures but have little to justify that - especially with what seems to be an arbitrary specificity cutoff. Many other tools also provide little justification for their clustering approach. It is not clear how much the clustering affects the post-clustering analysis. I think it would be wise for the authors to decouple the clustering from the post-clustering analysis so that competing clustering methods could make use of the post-clustering analysis presented here. The choice of .001 as the cutoff for significance of HMM domain hits seems overly generous and unjustified. This generosity is compounded when any PfamA hit without regard to significance is given precedence over TIGRFAM and Superfamily hits. Certainly it would be more difficult to try combining hits from the three HMM sets but some justification for this should be given. In figure 2 the bars for total and new gene families are not explained, and the new gene family bars are not consistent with what I expect them to be and the pan-genome blue line. I assume that the total family bar is the number of families/clusters in the given genome and that the new family bar is the number of families in the given genome which have not been seen in the genomes to the left. Given this, the new family bar should be equal to the amount of increase in the blue pan-genome line form the last point which it does not appear to be. A more major point is that the plots in figure 2 represent a single order of the genomes and how that order is determined is not specified. Many plots of this type choose to randomize the order over multiple trials and present the average possibly with standard deviation shown as well. In the "Accessory genome analysis" section, it is far from clear what is meant by: "Descriptions (1) and (2) introduce the specific-core-genome, while descriptions (3) and (4) describe the specific-pan-genome. Given that the first and the second sets of genomes are the same, application of options (3) and (4) will yield as accessory genome of input set of genomes." This section talks about comparing two groups of genomes but in later sections the analysis seems to be only pairwise. The figure captions are not very descriptive and sometimes the text which describes the basic information about the figure does not reference the figure, such as for figures 2 and 4. The asymmetry in figure 4 is due to which genome is the denominator, whereas in figure 2 a symmetric measure is used. This difference is not well motivated or discussed. The asymmetry is the result of genome size which is a property of the individual genome - shouldn't we be seeking to normalize away this effect in pairwise comparisons if possible? Figure 5 was very disappointing. I had thought that the major benefit of this tool would be for analysis of different groups within the pan-genome such as pathogen versus non-pathogen. Either the GO terms are not appropriate for this or there wasn't much to be found. Not sure the set of non-pathogens was diverse enough for the question either. In summation, while I like the HMM based clustering approach there does not appear to be any justification for it over other approaches. The HMM approach does give you a level of annotation transfer from the HMMs to the cluster but how valuable this is in the post-analysis is not brought out very strongly in this article. The post-clustering analysis tools presented here appear to be useful but not overly unique. The most unique part is the transferance of the annotation to make judgments about core vs non-core and different groupings of the genome. It is not clear to me if GO is sufficient for this or if more specific pathway annotation would be more helpful. Finally, I would suggest a separation of the clustering modules and the post-clustering analysis with a defined input for the clusters with generalized or specific GO annotation.