Thank you for submitting this interesting study protocol aiming to investigate the relationship between OSA and postoperative delirium as well as pain severity. This protocol targets an important and clinically meaningful research question, and is overall well written and designed. We invite the authors to consider the following questions and suggestions: Please address the question as to whether the patients are studied from a historical cohort. If so, how do you control for the effects of previously studied interventions (e.g. effect of anesthetic protocols on postoperative delirium in the ENGAGES study; effects of ketamine treatment on postoperative delirium and pain (PODCAST study)) ? How do you discriminate between lingering medication effects and delirium early on during postoperative day 1? We suggest considering to additionally use the SPOSA score which was recently published in order to classify patients according to OSA risk (Shin C et al. BMC Anesthesiology 2017). Advantage is you can apply this to bigger observational cohorts without measuring neck circumference etc. Maybe you can better justify the patient flow. The SATISFY-SOS study aims to enroll 36000 patients. Please provide information that helps understand as to why you expect to have complete data for ~1300 patients only. Looks like you also want to use data from two other studies additionally with enrollment targets of additional 600 and 1200 patients? How do you account for patients with undiagnosed OSA that may have been treated with CPAP for other respiratory diseases such as COPD, acute lung injury, neuromuscular disorders etc.? Statistical models: Confounder control: Please consider including comorbidities such as COPD, asthma and neuromuscular disorders in the context of higher risk for intraoperative hypoxemia or respiratory failure; duration of surgery/time under anesthesia in addition to surgery type and some type of measure for procedural complexity such as a risk quantification score (see PSS for Morbidity or Mortality) into your statistical model For sure you should control for age and BMI Consider including pre-prescribed drugs especially neuroleptics/antipsychotics if you can get these data Perhaps also consider accounting for different anesthetic protocols used during surgery such as TIVAs, volatile anesthetics, opioid use, ketamine use Did you consider using multiple imputation methods for missing data? We like the suggested sensitivity analyses. 