The authors present a Matlab toolbox to assess skin-conductance measurements.Their toolbox sets itself apart from existing analysis options in particular by allowing users to filter out artifacts related to movement and (partially) unrelated physiological signals that arise through e.g. breathing. The authors outline what task-related signal researchers tend to be interested in, and how artifacts can distort these. The authors also highlight a current lack of user-friendly analysis solutions, and therefore present a toolbox that should offer Matlab users a platform to do skin conductance analyses. I particularly enjoyed the brief and to-the-point introduction, which manages to clearly introduce the need for the presented software without unnecessary excursions. In addition, I appreciate that the authors took the time to produce this software package and to open it up to fellow researchers. The authors would benefit from a citable publication on their efforts, as unfortunately scientific software is currently under-appreciated in reward frameworks for scientists (i.e. it's hard to cite, and direct citations to software tend to be disregarded). The article is well-written, but summarises the algorithms included in the toolbox rather coarsely. I think the manuscript would benefit from a higher level of detail on the statistical analysis. Specifically, I think the authors should include equations that describe how parameters are computed from the signal. An additional feature that would benefit the software is the option to do statistical comparisons between experimental conditions, which currently does not seem to be possible. Artifact identification and correction is important, but also just the first step of an analysis. The target audience for this toolbox includes, according to the manuscript, people with no programming experience. These will profit from additional analysis options that could be built into the GUI. The code is made publicly available via GitHub, which is a very suitable platform. The chosen license (GNU GPL v3) allows for any kind of re-use. Unlike some open-source software, the documentation that the authors provide with their toolbox is extensive, and should (in my opinion) suffice to help even the most inexperienced of users. DISCLAIMER: This reviewer is not an expert in skin conductance signals, but has published open software, including toolboxes for Python and Matlab. This means I am not in a position to sufficiently review the actual software, and will thus limit my review to the manuscript. 