The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of two different visual criteria, the FDI and CARS criteria for the assessment of caries around restorations in primary teeth on outcomes related to children’s oral health and costs. This is a timely study that is assessing an important topic from the outcomes point of view, which makes it very clinically relevant. The study protocol is well written, provides a rationale, and clearly describes the objectives of the study. The study design is appropriate for the research question. There are however insufficient details of the methods to allow replication by others. The following should be clarified: Given the impact that caries risk can have on the outcomes, it is important to understand if caries risk was assessed and played any role in randomization. Additionally, although caries lesion activity was assessed, it is not clear if randomization considered caries lesion activity status. It is also not clear if exfoliation status was considered and how that affected inclusion/exclusion. Regarding the 4 stratification blocks, please clarify if the number of restorations considered were only those in the primary dentition or if the restorations in the permanent dentition were also considered for stratification. On examiner calibration – please clarify if the repeat examinations included all 10 children. It is stated that examinations of study patients only occurred after weighted values were greater than 0.75. Please clarify if the same 10 children were repeatedly examined to achieve these values for both intra- and inter-examiner reliability. Were new Kappa scores calculated for new exams or were the exams compounded and the Kappa scores re-calculated? After removal of the restoration when the replacement was indicated the hardness of dentin was evaluated, please clarify if this was done by the provider or by a different examiner and if the calibration was conducted prior to the assessments. On Adherence, the authors state that “humanized care is provided for all participants. Please provide a definition of “humanized care”. Management: Figure 1 provides a very clear flow chart of how lesions were managed according to the ICDAS criteria. A similar chart with the FDI criteria and management would be helpful. Additionally, the predetermined protocols need to be overlaid with the FDI and CARS to better illustrate how the different cases were/are handled. 