This is an interesting and important feasibility study, which seeks to determine whether it is possible to conduct a (large) study evaluating various combinations of sedation/analgesia post cardiac surgery, with the intention of preventing postoperative delirium. In general, with a very small feasibility study, the investigators demonstrate that conducting such a study might be possible. However this study has important constraints. The investigators state, “The mean duration of delirium was 0-1 days.” This appears to be a range. The investigators conclude, “The feasibility of performing a large-scale project is ascertained by the study.” I would rather argue that the feasibility of performing a project is ascertained. Whether or not a large-scale project is feasible is not necessarily established. Contrary to the investigators, I do not believe that a 12 patient study with four groups supports the inference “that IVA may have a role in reducing the incidence of delirium.” This is over-interpretive of very limited data. I do not agree that using the CAM is a major limitation in delirium research (as the investigators suggest that it might lack sensitivity). I do agree that this might apply to the CAM-ICU. More efficient tools might not necessarily be more sensitive. I am not convinced that a 12 patient pilot trial will produce sufficiently precise estimates to power a large RCT appropriately. Although the absolute difference between proportions (delirium incidence) was 50% (67% minus 17%), the 95% confidence interval for this difference is -13% to 82%. Thus, it is not clear based on this small study what value should be used (estimated difference in delirium incidence between the groups [acetaminiphen and placebo]) for the sample size calculation. From the registration site (for NCT02546765), it appears that 120 patients will be included in the (large) trial. This number is likely to be much too small to answer the research question with sufficient precision. The reasons for the exclusion criteria are not clear. With the modified factorial design, was interaction between interventions considered? Specifically, both dexmedetomidine and acetaminophen might have an impact on the outcome of interest (delirium). The (secondary) results of the study were as follows: “The Propofol+Acetaminophen group had no occurrence of delirium. Interestingly, only 17% (1/6) of the subjects who received IVA were diagnosed with delirium compared to 67% (4/6) in the group who did not receive IVA.” The investigators should be cautious about over-interpreting these findings, or using these estimates to justify sample size for a large trial. The problem with this would be that 67% is a very high incidence, and is not likely to reflect the incidence with current standard of care (i.e., propofol or dexmedetomidine sedation, without intravenous acetaminophen). Similarly, the incidence of 17% is actually likely to be pretty close to the current delirium incidence in the type of patients who were enrolled to this study (but who receive standard of care). 