The article “Increasing Epstein-Barr virus infection in Chinese children: A single institutional based retrospective study” is a single center hospital based study which reports the rate of EBV infection in hospitalized children Although it has reported prevalence of EBV in this group, but in real meaning it is just a rate of EBV infection in hospitalized children in a hospital. Its rate might not have much meaning in general as the findings can not be generalized due to various reasons including hospital based data and also we do not have any idea about the denominator used for the calculation purpose and this denominator might differ in different hospitals and directly affects the rate of EBV reported. The main message that can be taken from this study is that the rates of EBV infection is rising in current years and its rate is higher in less than 4 years group and thereafter there is a gradual fall in its rate among older children. As authors have discussed in discussion section, we should understand that the reason for this rising trend can be different; first, real rising in EBV infection; second, increasing awareness among people and among medicos about the disease leading to frequent diagnosis of the condition. The role of other unknown factors may also have an impact. The study is a simple descriptive analysis, includes retrospective analysis of EBV infection from 2014 to 2017 in hospitalized children. The introduction section highlights history, epidemiology, clinical features and diagnosis of EBV infection. It states EBV as the most common causative agent of infectious mononucleosis and does not mention other causative agent, if there are any and it does not describe other manifestation of EBV infections. Introduction section also fails to describe the gap in the current knowledge on the subject matter, rational and need of current study. It is not clear what were the objectives of the study. Methodology section describes the design of the study to some extent. It needs more on elaboration of the methodology followed, inclusion and exclusion criteria and spectrum of the pediatric subjects admitted to the hospital. The unnecessary description of peripheral blood pictures at birth and changes thereafter can be omitted. The age-specific grouping less than 4 years, 4-6 years and 6-15 years needs explanation as it seems inappropriate and equal age interval should be selected if there is no any reason to classify as chosen. In the result section, the word “prevalence” may not be appropriate in pertinent to this study and appropriate word should be selected. The rate of EBV infection reported is among the admitted subjects and as the spectrum of admitted subjects is unknown, it is very difficult to understand it. For example, if all the children admitted to the hospital were febrile, the EBV infection rate would have been different and if the children admitted included non-infective conditions as well, it would have been different. Unnecessary figures and double reporting can be avoided in result section. The figures 2 and 3 basically state the same, figure 2 reports in absolute numbers and figure 3 reports the rates per 1000 admissions. Similarly, figures 4 and 5 also report the same. Discussion section is written well. It is better to avoid the use of the word “prevalence” and make comparisons with similar studies. Limitations and suggestions for further studies should also be made and discussed. Based on the study, we can not conclude that the children under 4 years of age are susceptible to EBV infections, we can only say that the rates were higher among this group. Overall, the article is simple and provides few insights on EBV infection and highlights its rising trend from 2014 to 2017 with higher rate among children less than 4 years old. 