The goal of the authors was to document any impediments to the commercialization process at the University of Kentucky. The study was spurred by the findings that UK significantly underperforms when compared to peer institutions of similar size. A previous study was published in 2013 regarding this same topic at UK for the commercialization of cancer research. In this study, similar surveys were conducted with one single entrepreneurial respondent as opposed to a larger cohort of cancer researchers in the previous UK study. They report that the major issue impeding commercialization, according to the respondent, is the lack of appropriate infrastructure at the university. The results were apparently similar to those found in this 2013 paper. I found this topic to be of great interest in comparing the performance to schools of similar benchmarks. The results could be helpful to many institutions that are underperforming and looking to boost commercialization. The survey questions used could be useful for any institution to keep track of the satisfaction of the researchers in regard to commercialization of their technologies, and to assess the adequacy of the performance of the technology transfer office. Major concerns/Revisions While I think the survey questions used were reasonable, I have doubts about the validity of asking a single entrepreneur the survey questions. It comes across as if the same 2013 study was repeated, but with only one person. I dont feel that one person is a significant number for this type of paper to make conclusions with. N=1 doesnt seem to be a true scientific sampling. Unfortunately, if more respondents were utilized, then this paper would appear to be a repeat of the earlier study. Perhaps another angle would be to survey the staff at UK as to why they are underperforming. Asking the tech transfer professionals and other research administrators would also be informative and provide a different angle to the original survey of cancer researchers. Or perhaps a broader survey of other departments would be helpful, rather than only focusing on the cancer department. I feel that several other angles could have also been explored in this paper to contrast or follow up on the work in the 2013 paper about UK. After the first study were any changes made based on the conclusions? Did the number of staff change? Did any of the infrastructure change at UK? Did UK do anything to increase the level of commercialization? There are many other interesting questions that could be explored rather than repeating the study over again with one participant. If the university has not responded to the previous study in any fashion, I find that of great interest. Why hasnt the technology transfer office been expanded and further supported? Why is there no incentive by those in charge of this area to revamp the office? There has been a large push at many universities to further promote entrepreneurship in faculty and students and support commercialization. In some online information it states that in the past UK was pushing to be a top 20 university by 2020. I am curious to know why there has been no change in the recent years. Minor Revisions When comparing benchmarks, another important factor missing in the table is the amount of research dollars. There is a ratio of expected disclosures per millions of dollars of research which varies, but is quoted in several locations at 1 disclosure per $1.5M-$3M and 1 start-up company per ~$100M. Knowing the amount of research dollars going into UK would help to show a lack of productivity with inventions at the university. This information should be available through AUTM if not through the technology transfer office directly. Based on some online information the research expenditures at UK appear to be in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Assuming ~$400M in expenditures, one would expect about 130 disclosures. The UK website cites 84 disclosures in 2014. Summary: I feel that major revisions are necessary for this paper to add some new information and expand the scope of the study. The results here do not seem to add onto those previously found but simply confirm the previous findings with the survey of one entrepreneurial researcher. A different sample of respondents would greatly enhance this paper such as asking researchers from all departments, or focusing on the staff involved in technology transfer, commercialization and entrepreneurship. Or perhaps if changes were made by the tech transfer office and these did not have an effect, this would be good to know for other offices. There appears to be something missing from this story. This paper would be of interest if revamped to add a new twist distinct from the 2013 paper. I have read this submission. I believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard.