This manuscript examines the genotypic basis behind distinctly different phenotypes which have been reported for arabidopsis mutant lines each annotated as abp1 knock-out/loss-of-function alleles. The various mutant lines as homozygotes have been reported over time both as conferring embryo lethality and as displaying no obvious phenotype. Naturally, each outcome translates into very different interpretations of the function and relevance of ABP1. Consequently, clarification of the genotypes behind each phenotype is welcome. This paper maps the mutation sites in each allele and ties embryo lethality to disruption of the adjacent gene BSM . Thus, ABP1 is not necessary for embryo development in arabidopsis. I applaud the clarity of the conclusion and the suggestion to rename the misleading lines. The title is appropriate and factual. The abstract is appropriate. The experimental strategy is direct and sound, methods are described well and suitable statistical analyses have been employed. All the data are presented clearly and are accessible. The text is clear and well structured. Following the conclusion drawn from the data presented here, there is a discussion on how this and the report of Gao et al affect our understanding of the biological role of ABP1 in planta . It is clear that in the case of ABP1 molecular genetic techniques have provided misleading genotypes. Thank goodness this is now cleared up. The case made in the discussion is that these specific false leads do not undermine all ABP1 results where the results are based on different genotypes and complementary tools. This is in stark contrast to the case suggested by the somewhat provocative title of the Gao paper. The phenotypes considered differ in timing and detail, but this paper and that of Gao et al are linked by revelations clarifying ABP1 mutant genotypes. The contrasting perspective offered by the discussion contributes to a healthy, objective dialogue. Minor points: Throughout I believe should read Nomarski optics. In the results section, text associated with the 35S inserts from SASKATOON accessions should refer to Fig 2A (not 2B). Technical replicates are used for the qPCR data, and where biological replicates are shown there is clearly more variation than between technical replicates, but interpretations of the result are not affected by this level of uncertainty. However, I am not sure the use of is necessary in the text (page 5, right column) considering the qPCR data for BSM transcripts in Fig 2B. In contrast to the loss of ABP1 transcript might be more appropriate at this stage of the narrative. Perhaps reordering consideration of the two sets of data (especially given the ABP1 data are shown first in the figure) would help here.