This study examined the impact of exercise-induced arterial hypertension (EIAH) on cardiac hypertrophy in normotensive healthy Ironman athletes. The hypothesis they wish to test is that elevated blood pressure values during exercise promote left ventricular hypertrophy in athletes and is one important factor causing cardiac fatigue. This is an interesting and current research topic considering that more and more evidence suggest that intense exercise training can lead to harmful cardiac remodelling in athletes who are otherwise healthy. In support of a negative role for EIAH, findings reported in this cross-sectional study indicate that left ventricular hypertrophy is associated with higher arterial blood pressure in the athletes examined. This paper provided interesting information; however, as acknowledged by the authors further research is required to clearly establish the causal relationship between EIAH and left ventricular hypertrophy. Moreover, based on the results presented in this study, it seems precipitate to suggest that endurance athletes with EIAH may require a therapeutic intervention such as low-dose ACE-inhibitors or AT1-blockers before training or competition to prevent exercise-induced cardiac hypertrophy. The authors report that the problem of EIAH is mostly encountered in men. The authors may want to consider that this apparent sex-specific regulation of EIAH is presumably a -related differences rather than a -related difference; considering that it is likely that less women will be inclined to enrol in vigorous training such as Ironman-distance triathlon, suggesting that biological and/or physiological differences are probably not involved in the male prevalence of EIAH. The title of the paper is somewhat misleading as the data reported in this study is not directly related to atrial fibrillation. Similarly, the study does not address the relationship between EIAH and bradycardia or QT dispersion. Furthermore, given that no data directly addressed the link between EIAH and AF, bradycardia and QT dispersion, the authors should consider revising their text to not over extrapolate their findings.