Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. This is a well written manuscript describing the population of adolescents and young people living with HIV in the Ukraine, based on a National survey. This manuscript highlights specific characteristics of this population and it is very interesting to see how this data may differ from other parts of the world for example sub Saharan Africa, where the characteristics of PLHIV in this age group is quite different. A few suggestions which could strengthen the manuscript are included below. These are for minor consideration by the authors: Consider using vertical transmission and horizontal transmission instead of "behaviourally-acquired" as this term carries substantial stigma. Introduction: 3rd paragraph, last line, it is reported that 2/3 of PLHIV are on treatment. It is worth elaborating on this and possible reasons in the test and treat era. Results: In the 2nd paragraph, where age ranges and medians are given, suggest adding IQR, as the range is so vast that this data is difficult to interpret. Suggest adding whether any clinical criteria were considered when transition was decided for example VL suppression, clinical stability (no opportunistic infections, malignancies), pregnancy etc. Under "Support services and follow-up...." separate and discuss separately STIs and psychosocial support, as these are obviously quite different needs and both important. It is really interesting to see data on the mode of HIV acquisition — is this information routinely recorded in the notes? A limitation may be that this data may not be accurate and there may be situations where it is difficult to ascertain, for example, if maternal status is unknown or +, a young person who presents late for the first time may have acquired HIV vertically or horizontally. Discussion: Suggest adding the above to the discussion. In the financial support paragraph, suggest also discussing differentiated models of care and also Youth Care Clubs or similar models where less facility-based contact is required. Also consider adding some text regarding the differences between this cohort and others, for example, in SSA . 