Well, on one hand I should say ``Yes’’ to this submission. At least, it completely meets all the up-to-date customs and observances in genomics and molecular biology. On the other hand, the authors rely on a number of (quite complex and apparent) software packages, workbenches and pipelines, and this is the matter of my general scepticism. Actually, we all become the hostages of those software tools; one has to trust software designers and believe the output of the programs is correct, free of mistakes, stably working, etc. Somebody may say ``You, physicists and mathematicians, do use Wolfram’s Mathematica and there is no collapse in math, nor in physics’’. Reciprocally, I would like to draw attention to an Elsevier journal devoted to Microsoft Excel errors solely (McCullough and Heiser, 2007 1 ). I am far from the idea to say that the study is wrongly arranged or badly accomplished; I just want to stress the point that there should be some special efforts done to ensure the results are at least stable. For example, what happens with assembled contigs, if we randomly remove a small part of reads? If a series of runs of an assembler yields (almost) the same contigs set, then the results could be used for further analysis. The problem arises, if one gets a number of sets of contigs with a sounding difference between them. The paper has no answer on that point; a comparative study (like that one presented by the authors) should have some proofs of the absence of artefacts affecting the comparison of fine differences between biological objects involved in the study. Meanwhile, I pretty well understand that such output testing falls beyond the customs and habits of NGS sequenced data treatment and I am in the smallest minority. So, from that point of view the paper completely meets all the custom data treatment procedures and in such capacity should be recommended for indexing. Another important issue of the paper is that it presents an attempt to tie together ecological (environmental) processes, and some genetic background that may stand behind. Here the word `crisis’ used by the authors makes a point: regularly, ecological crisis is stipulated as a rather fast running process in a community resulting in serious (and inevitable) loss of the greater part of species from the community. Maybe, this word is too strong here: what if the observed infection intrusion is just a regular (while long ranged) periodic event in the community? Nonetheless, the scientific merit of the paper is obvious, the results and conclusions are sounding and up-to-date, and paper should be indexed. The paper needs major revisions in its English. The paper is written in a version I dare say is Runglish. There are too many lines in the manuscript that look like a literal translation from Russian of (quite boring) scientific Russian-style. I myself can decipher what the authors mean, since my mother language is also Russian. I am absolutely sure that the current version of the paper will fall out of comprehension for the greatest majority of readers who have no active Russian. To begin with, the title must be changed. No signs, at all. The correct version should be like `` Evidences of the adaptive mutations in chloroplast genomes of some algae endosymbionts of Baikal sponge ’’. Same in the Abstract (Background paragraph): instead of “ The study of ecosystems of the great lakes is important as observations can be extended to ecosystems of larger scale. The ecological crisis of Lake Baikal needs investigations to discover the molecular mechanisms involved in the crisis. The disease of Baikal sponges is one of the processes resulting in the degradation of the littoral zone of the lake” there should be something like “ Monitoring and investigation of the great lakes ecosystem provides a sounding background to forecast the greater scale ecosystem dynamics. Changes in the Baikal lake biota observed nowadays demand deeper investigations of the molecular mechanisms standing behind these former. The endemic Baikal sponge disease may cause a degradation of littoral ecosystem of the lake ”. I am far from the idea that my version is the best, but the original one must be rewritten. Unfortunately, there are many more similar problem lines in the manuscript, so very strong revisions in the English are absolutely necessary. 