This Cytoscape app “CHAT” is valuable given its improvement over conventional biological network analysis methods by considering the context of network analysis. It is a good addition to the Cytoscape toolkits. However, we suggest some modifications that might make the paper more readable and the method more applicable. Suggested Modifications to text In the “Operation” section, “The identification of the top contextual hubs consists of three primary steps: 1) input of a user-supplied gene list and contextual data, 2) network construction and statistical analysis to identify nodes that preferentially interact with contextual nodes and 3) visualization of the top contextual hubs and their interactions and comparison to the top degree-based hubs.” should include four steps to be consistent with the following statements: 1) input a gene list, 2) database selection , 3) network construction and statistical analysis, 4) visualization of the top conceptual hubs and their interactions and comparison to the top degree-based hubs. The “implementation” and “Operation” sections in the Methods are somewhat redundant. For example, “The OK button triggers Cytoscape’s TaskManager to run a task that initiates the network construction and adds a tab to the results panel that provides functionality to further modify and analyze the network” and “A right click on a node brings up an option to activate the “Node Analyzer”mode”. It will be more appropriate if both these sentences are moved to the “Operation” section. The “Implementation” section should focus on the description of functionalities provide by CHAT and the application interfaces (APIs) are implemented, while how to conduct network analysis should be in the “Operation” part. Suggested Modifications to future versions of CHAT One question is the background selection criteria. As the authors mentioned, this step is very important and directly affects the later statistical test results. An alternative/better background might be the set of genes/proteins expressed under the condition used to create the original dataset, such as genes expressed in given the cell type, tissue, or treatment. This might eliminate the irrelevant nodes and reduce the number of tests needed. In the current CHAT version, only the first-order neighbor-interactors are allowed to be considered which is generally most important and might be enough in most situations. But when the resulting network is small, the user might not be able to perform further analysis. So if the option of higher-order interactors is provided, the tool will be more versatile. The authors mentioned that only databases in the PSICQUIC registry with at least 10,000 interactions are included. This is kind of arbitrary. While it is appreciated that other DB available in Cytoscape can be used with this tool, the usefulness of the databases should be determined case by case. So we suggest the author provide the user all the available choices of interaction databases. We suggest a different method might be more appropriate for multiple testing correction. The authors state that “a method widely used in bioinformatics to avoid high false discovery rates. The Bonferroni approach is widely considered to be too strict.” This could be reworded as “a method widely used in bioinformatics to avoid high false discovery rates, instead of the Bonferroni approach which is widely considered to be too strict.” However, the author assumed the genes in the network are independent by using the “BH” method. To be more realistic, we suggest the “BY” method for correction of the multiple testing. See Benjamini and Yekutieli : The control of the false discovery rate in multiple testing under dependency Ann. Statist. 2001; 29 (1165-1188)