The title is somewhat misleading. Are rate and functional changes genuinely two different "kinds" of causality? How exactly are kinds of causality distinguished? As a general rule, I'm not a fan of multiplying kinds (whether of causation, or other entities, processes, etc.) without good reason. While the author is right to point out that one can (and should) distinguish how a disruption affects rate of onset versus how disruptions affect specific functions, I'm not entirely sure that this warrants the claim that these are two distinct kinds of causation. Also, regarding the general thesis: surely it's true that changes to rate of onset can involve compromises in function (in some sense), and compromises in function can also change rate of onset? Suppose a gene (e.g., BRCA) is associated with genetic stability or appropriate chromosomal division during mitosis. Mutations such a gene can lead to earlier onset of cancer, but surely also mutations to such genes compromise a function (namely, cell division). Surely the two are not altogether independent? Other than this major worry, most of my concerns have to do with clarity of expression: Some of the explication of key ideas is all too brief, or the writing is a bit unclear, or difficult to understand. E.g.,“Causal factors of cancer illustrate the duality between rate processes of discovery” - I’m not sure what “rate processes of discovery” means… does the author mean rates of incidence? The causes of rates of actual discovery of a tumor, via screening, or perhaps diagnoses on the basis of symptoms surely include but are not limited to biological causes (e.g., the skill of pathologists, the effectiveness of our screening tools, etc.). i.e., "rate processes of discovery" is potentially misleading. Also the claim that there is a “duality between rate… and necessarily physiological function" is somewhat difficult to interpret…. I think that the author simply means that these two outcomes (rate of onset and functional disruption) are different, and their causes are different as well. Moreover, I think that the author simply means that we ought to be clear about which outcome interests us, and not assume that whenever we affect function, we also affect rate of onset, and vice versa? Is this a common conceptual confusion in the literature? If so, an example or two as illustration would motivate the reader to see this as a serious concern worth policing in future. Also, the claim that X or Y functional change is a “necessary cause of tumor development” is somewhat misleading. Few very specific functional changes are "necessary" for cancer, though some may be more important than others. To be sure, some "generic" functional changes are necessary for cancer, but I don't think that the author means to suggest that ONLY IF this particular function were disrupted in this particular way, would cancer eventuate. Many functions are disrupted in a variety of different ways – the same pathway may be compromised in quite different manners. I’m also skeptical of claims about the notion of “physiologically necessary function.” The author claims, “Experimentally, one may reverse a physiological change and measure the abrogation of a cancerous state. Success points to a physiologically necessary function.” Many functions in biological systems are robust exactly because there are duplicated gene or blocks of genes that play similar functions. E.g., redundancy is a common feature of biological systems. So, while we may think of a particular realization of function as "necessary," it's of course possible that when such a function is compromised, another (similar) mechanism could play a similar functional role. 