This software paper describes an R package that provides an integrated R interface for the APIs of over a dozen taxonomically related web services. This is a valuable contribution because it will save researchers time and energy (for those capable of wrapping the APIs themselves), and will allow scientists who lack the technical knowledge to interact with web services themselves to use this data from R. In addition, some of the functions combine existing APIs in useful ways. The software was developed using version control, on a public development site (https://github.com/ropensci/taxize_), and using a bug tracker. The code is well modularized and includes an extensive test suite. This level of good software practice is notable for scientific software and is indicative of well built and maintained code. It also has a clearly declared CC0 license making it easy for others to use and build on the software. The software installed easily in R using the standard approach and generally works as expected based on the examples in the paper and on the project's website. My one major suggestion is to reinforce what the authors' have already suggested in the Conclusions, that it would be an improvement to move to a design that focuses on having a single top-level function for each type of task that the library handles with different data sources being selected using a parameter. This would allow the users to benefit maximally from one of the stronger aspects of this library, which is that it combines access to large numbers of data sources, by making it more of an integrated system and less of a collected set of API wrappers. Minor issues: The code snippets are images rather than text. This is probably a limitation of the publishing platform, but it does make it more difficult to learn about the software by executing the code snippets. The following two sentences seem rather tangential to the paper and could be removed: "Science workflows can now easily incorporate text, code, and images in a single executable document. Reproducible documents should become mainstream in biology to avoid mistakes, and make collaboration easier." Given that many of the target users of this package will not be particularly familiar with web services and APIs, I would recommend adding another sentence or two to the paragraph on authentication so that readers understand why this is required (i.e., most readers won't understand " users that abuse the API ") and what it really is (i.e., an individual login of sorts, similar to a username/password). The section on "Aggregating data to a specific taxonomic rank" refers to an example, but none appears to be present. 