Amicon-adapted enhanced FASP: an in-solution digestion-based alternative sample preparation method to FASP. The topic of SDS removal is, to my opinion, of a great interest since SDS is essential to a lot of proteomic sample preparation. And it happens more often than not that SDS could not be avoided. The only other option than FASP is to run a SDS-PAGE gel, to do a protein precipitation. Those avenues have shown some limitations in terms of sample recovery. So there is some space for improvements in SDS-removal sample preparation for proteomics. In this paper, the authors have adapted the method developed by Erde J. et al to Amicon filter units. While not dramatically new, this could be helpful for scientists willing to optimize their proteome recovery from SDS-containing samples. The experimental part is carefully written with a lot of checkpoints. The authors clearly changed a lot of different parameters and came with reasonable explanations for the results. One small comment, the HALO C18 column could not be 0.3 um id. I am a bit puzzled by the lack of overlap between all the 4 experiments presented in Figure 3c. For example, we could think that the use of eFASP A10k will yield less proteins because the SDS removal is less effective than with eFASP30K. Indeed, even if the SDS level is still below the critical level for the Lys-C/ trypsin digestion, it might affect the performance of LC-MS. But the protein population should not change drastically. However, the overlap between the two experiments leads to 1343 proteins in common which represents a 60% overlap. That is a bit weak. Is this because of the stochastic nature of tandem mass spectra acquisition leading to different peptides being sequenced between each run or are we truly seeing two different protein population. A simple way to asses that would be to consider for the Venn diagram only the proteins identified with 2 peptides and more. Another option would be to cluster the identifications based on retention time charge and m/z and to match the identifications between runs (only if ProteinPilot can do it).