The authors propose the analysis of the presence of hookworms in 350 samples of food handlers from Sudan. From the total of positive samples, the authors did a PCR with primers specific for hookworms, confirming the species found by sequencing. Although the work has relevance, some points can be improved. Abstract It is not necessary to mention the collection period of the samples in the abstract. In the results of the abstract, I suggest that the authors mention the absolute number of infected persons after the percentage: "The prevalence of hookworms in the stool samples of food-handlers was 1.43% (5/350)." It is not necessary to specify the accession numbers of the GenBank sequences in the abstract. At the conclusion of the abstract, the authors do not say anything about the percentage of parasitized individuals. What is the impact of this prevalence on food handlers? What are the risks to consumers? Introduction The citation of reference 3 is outdated. The most current prevalence of hookworm infection can be seen in Pullan RL, Smith JL, Jasrasaria R, Brooker SJ 2014. Global numbers of infection and disease burden of soil transmitted helminth infections in 2010. Parasit Vectors 7:37. Methodology It is not clear to me whether all 350 samples were analyzed by formaldehyde-ether concentration technique and Baermann's technique. If all samples were analyzed by these two methods, this should also be clear in the abstract. The concentrations of the PCR components and DNA must be provided. The authors only provide the volumes used, but not the concentration. For reproduction of the technique, other researchers need the same conditions. I did not understand why the authors mentioned that the "amplicon of 485 bp was considered positive for hookworm DNA". What if the amplicon had 380 bp (corresponding to the species Ancylostoma ssp.)? Discussion The authors should be more cautious about discussing molecular results. Although it is true that PCR is a more sensitive technique than conventional coproparasitological methods, the results of the work do not allow to conclude this. The authors do not screen all samples comparing the different methods. In addition, the authors could discuss the possibility of cross-reaction. How specific are these primers so that they can amplify only the genetic material of hookworms and not that of other nematodes? How feasible is the use of PCR for diagnosis in Sudan? Although PCR is a more sensitive technique, the ideal for the reality of many localities is still the combination of different coproparasitological methods, which, although requiring expertise, are inexpensive techniques. Some molecular techniques such as RFLP-PCR and qPCR have already been standardized for the determination of hookworm species. The authors should discuss something about these other techniques. Although the prevalence of hookworm infection has been low, the authors discuss nothing about the impact of parasitosis on food handlers. There are many papers that discuss the risks of this infection. Some speculation can be made. Conclusion To conclude that Necator americanus is the most prevalent hookworm in Sudan based only on these results is very strong. The analysis of only 350 samples, with the molecular confirmation of only four of these samples does not allow to conclude something so strong. 