The article "RNA-seq assembler artifacts can bias expression counts and differential expression analysis application of YeATS on the chickpea transcriptome" by Sandeep Chakraborty describes the use of a workflow developed by the author for identification of assembly artifacts in the chickpea transcriptome. The author suggests a possible impact of these artifacts on the expression counts and concludes that when de-novo transcriptome assembly is implemented as a part of RNAseq study, the intermediate assembly transcripts should be provided by the authors. While the concluding statement is true regardless of the content of the manuscript, there are several issues that need to be addressed for the readers to benefit from this study: The mention of YeATS in the title and the abstract without providing explanation of what it is, unnecessarily complicates the understanding of the text. The title and the abstract of the manuscript are quite misleading. It is true that assembly artifacts can bias expression counts and differential expression analysis, in fact, it is a quite trivial statement. Nevertheless, nothing in the manuscript addresses this claim. In the best case, the author might have detected several artifacts in the assembly of chickpea transcriptome speculating about their impact on the expression counts, but he has not evaluated the impact of the proposed artifacts on expression counts or differential expression analysis. In addition, the author analysed a single dataset and thus should avoid generalizing his statements. The manuscript is entirely based on a workflow developed by the author. The workflow was never validated and was not previously used by other researchers, questioning the reliability of the results. The main step of the workflow is based on ORFs identified by the getorf tool, which by default define ORFs as regions between two STOP codons. This is quite puzzling, since traditionally ORFs are defined as sequences beginning with a START codon and might or might not contain a STOP codon. The author should validate his results using a tool based on the conventional definition of ORF such as NCBI’s ORFfinder. More generally, the author should evaluate the performance of his workflow and verify the proposed artifacts by analysing of well annotated organism such as Arabidopsis . Do the identified “errors" indeed represent artifacts or do they represent biological truth? For example, one intuitive explanation for a single ORF aligned to two proteins would be that the two proteins are truly transcribed from a single transcript, as often observed in other organisms. Similarly, the “Type II error” can represent cases were multiple isoforms exist for a single protein (e.g. due to alternative splicing events). p.4 – “However, the overrepresentation of such merged transcripts in HET suggests that there might be some errors in counting”. This is entirely based on the author’s opinion. Is there any evidence that this is the case? The manuscript needs to be proofread in order to improve its readability. For example, the interchangeable use of past and present tenses while describing the work make it difficult to understand the workflow of the study (e.g. p.3, 4 th paragraph). p.3, 3 rd paragraph: “In contrast to other traditional methods like RNA:DNA hybridization and short sequence-based approaches”. Why does the author mention the other methods? This sentence doesn’t really make any sense, especially in light of the fact that RNAseq methodology is also a short sequence based approach. p.3, 3 rd paragraph: “RNA-seq detects transcripts with very low expression levels”. This sentence is irrelevant to the manuscript. Moreover, it is not entirely valid since the ability of the method to detect low abundant transcripts is related to the depth of the sequencing. p.3, 3 rd paragraph: “YeATS is a work-flow for analyzing RNA-seq data”. The author should clearly indicate that YeATS workflow was developed and implemented by the author himself instead of presenting it as well established approach. 