I thank the authors for addressing all the concerns I brought up. However, while the post-alignment QC has reduced the amount of false positives, I'm still concerned about the lack of pre-alignment read trimming (which should be standard practice). The methods section or material on the project's github page make no mention of any trimming of the reads prior to alignment. As demonstrated in my first referee report, by trimming potential adaptor and primer sequences and removing poor quality bases at the ends of reads, the fungal diversity of the beers is reduced further (i.e. the amount of false positives are decreased), even with lenient post-alignment filtering (MAPQ 3). I would recommend that the authors either redo the analysis once more with proper pre-alignment filtering as well, or clearly state in the results and discussion section that no such step was carried out and that the results may therefore contain a large number of false positives. For example, it is highly unlikely that all beers would contain traces of Saccharomyces mikatae , a yeast that to my knowledge never before has been isolated from fermentation environments and only ever from forest samples in Asia (1, 2). As demonstrated by the results in my previous referee report, S. mikatae is no longer detected in the samples I analyzed when pre-alignment quality trimming was performed. References 1. Naumov GI, James SA, Naumova ES, Louis EJ, et al.: Three new species in the Saccharomyces sensu stricto complex: Saccharomyces cariocanus, Saccharomyces kudriavzevii and Saccharomyces mikatae. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol . 2000; 50 Pt 5 : 1931-42 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Bellon JR, Schmid F, Capone DL, Dunn BL, et al.: Introducing a new breed of wine yeast: interspecific hybridisation between a commercial Saccharomyces cerevisiae wine yeast and Saccharomyces mikatae. PLoS One . 2013; 8 (4): e62053 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Krogerus K. Reviewer Report For: BeerDeCoded: the open beer metagenome project [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :1676 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13990.r27163 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1676/v2#referee-response-27163 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 28 Nov 2017 jonathan sobel 28 Nov 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewer for his detailed remarks. Read trimming is quite discussed in the bioinformatics community. While this step is critical when people are working with single-end data and ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for his detailed remarks. Read trimming is quite discussed in the bioinformatics community. While this step is critical when people are working with single-end data and small RNA, it is less important when we work with paired-end sequencing on amplicons that are longer than the read length (personal communication with the sequencing facility, Biostar/Sequanswer discussion). In our case, we do not detect a lot of adaptor sequences. Also, the effect of trimming will reduce the false negative aligned reads but will barely affect the false positive aligned reads, as it is doubtful that the adaptor matches the ITS sequence. About the Saccharomyces mitkatae or other yeasts that have never been isolated in Europe, we cannot exclude that these yeasts are present, especially if these microorganisms are present in 1 to 10 5 compared to Saccharomyces cerevisiae . In this proportion, it would be quite difficult to isolate it from the fermentation mixture. However, we acknowledge that the results may contain false positives as no quality trimming of the sequencing reads was performed. We thank the reviewer for his detailed remarks. Read trimming is quite discussed in the bioinformatics community. While this step is critical when people are working with single-end data and small RNA, it is less important when we work with paired-end sequencing on amplicons that are longer than the read length (personal communication with the sequencing facility, Biostar/Sequanswer discussion). In our case, we do not detect a lot of adaptor sequences. Also, the effect of trimming will reduce the false negative aligned reads but will barely affect the false positive aligned reads, as it is doubtful that the adaptor matches the ITS sequence. About the Saccharomyces mitkatae or other yeasts that have never been isolated in Europe, we cannot exclude that these yeasts are present, especially if these microorganisms are present in 1 to 10 5 compared to Saccharomyces cerevisiae . In this proportion, it would be quite difficult to isolate it from the fermentation mixture. However, we acknowledge that the results may contain false positives as no quality trimming of the sequencing reads was performed. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 28 Nov 2017 jonathan sobel 28 Nov 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewer for his detailed remarks. Read trimming is quite discussed in the bioinformatics community. While this step is critical when people are working with single-end data and ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for his detailed remarks. Read trimming is quite discussed in the bioinformatics community. While this step is critical when people are working with single-end data and small RNA, it is less important when we work with paired-end sequencing on amplicons that are longer than the read length (personal communication with the sequencing facility, Biostar/Sequanswer discussion). In our case, we do not detect a lot of adaptor sequences. Also, the effect of trimming will reduce the false negative aligned reads but will barely affect the false positive aligned reads, as it is doubtful that the adaptor matches the ITS sequence. About the Saccharomyces mitkatae or other yeasts that have never been isolated in Europe, we cannot exclude that these yeasts are present, especially if these microorganisms are present in 1 to 10 5 compared to Saccharomyces cerevisiae . In this proportion, it would be quite difficult to isolate it from the fermentation mixture. However, we acknowledge that the results may contain false positives as no quality trimming of the sequencing reads was performed. We thank the reviewer for his detailed remarks. Read trimming is quite discussed in the bioinformatics community. While this step is critical when people are working with single-end data and small RNA, it is less important when we work with paired-end sequencing on amplicons that are longer than the read length (personal communication with the sequencing facility, Biostar/Sequanswer discussion). In our case, we do not detect a lot of adaptor sequences. Also, the effect of trimming will reduce the false negative aligned reads but will barely affect the false positive aligned reads, as it is doubtful that the adaptor matches the ITS sequence. About the Saccharomyces mitkatae or other yeasts that have never been isolated in Europe, we cannot exclude that these yeasts are present, especially if these microorganisms are present in 1 to 10 5 compared to Saccharomyces cerevisiae . In this proportion, it would be quite difficult to isolate it from the fermentation mixture. However, we acknowledge that the results may contain false positives as no quality trimming of the sequencing reads was performed. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Bochman ML. Reviewer Report For: BeerDeCoded: the open beer metagenome project [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :1676 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13990.r27164 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1676/v2#referee-response-27164 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 20 Oct 2017 Matthew L. Bochman , Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry Department, Indiana University Bloomington,  Bloomington, IN, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13990.r27164 The authors have adequately ... Continue reading READ ALL 