Many adult-onset neurodegenerative diseases are associated with aggregates of misfolded proteins or peptides. A number of groups have proposed that those aggregates that are intracellular, such as tau, synuclein and TDP-43, may result from defects in the protein-degradation pathways like the proteasome which slows normal protein turnover. Such proposals lead naturally to the idea that enhancing endogenous protein degradation pathways is a potential therapeutic strategy to reduce aggregate levels, thereby slowing or blocking disease progression. This manuscript focuses on USP14, a deubiquinating enzyme associated with the proteasome that catalyzes the release of ubiquitin for proteins targeted for degradation and allow the ubiquitin to be recycled for targeting other proteins to the proteasome. Recycling of ubiquitin is particularly important in domains far removed from sites where newly synthesized ubiquitin is available. The need to transport ubiquitin to synaptic terminals is an obvious example. Studies in a mouse model deficient in USP14 found reduced tissue ubiquitin levels in all tissues with a particularly significant loss in synaptic terminals and there is evidence of altered synaptic transmission in these mice. Curiously, there were no obvious accumulations of specific proteins or increased aggregates in brains noted in descriptions of this USP14-deficient mouse, despite its putative role in proteasome function. Subsequent studies failed to show a difference in endogenous levels of tau in the USP14-deficient mouse and a second mouse line expressing a catalytically dead USP14 did not find altered proteasomal activity. Understanding the role of USP14 in clearance of pathogenic proteins is complicated by the fact that different proteins may involve different actions of USP14. For example, degradation of some proteins is normal in the presence of catalytically dead USP14, while others require catalytic activity. Tau and TDP-43 were both reported to be in the latter category as recombinant proteins accumulated to a higher level when expressed with wild type, but not with catalytically inactive USP14. This finding was the basis for suggestions that inhibition of USP14 might enhance clearance of these proteins. Experiments described in this report sought to further characterize the ability of USP14 to modulate the clearance of tau, TDP-43 and α-synuclein. Unfortunately, increased levels of either wild type or catalytically inactive USP14 had no effect on levels of tau or TDP-43 and siRNA knockdown of endogenous USP14 failed to affect cellular levels of α-synuclein or alter endogenous expression of tau protein in a differentiated neuroblastoma cell line. A variety of different approaches to alter levels of USP14 failed to confirm the previous reports of altered clearance. The experiments are carefully documented and well controlled, suggesting that USP14 does not play a role in modulating the clearance of these proteins, consistent with the mouse studies. The conclusion is that inhibition of USP14 is not a promising therapeutic target for enhancing clearance of pathogenic proteins in adult-onset neurodegeneration. Although these cell-based assays make a strong case for this conclusion, data from the mouse models were never consistent with this proposal, since they showed no obvious evidence of proteasomal dysfunction or reduced tau levels. Indeed, given the fact that loss of USP14 catalytic activity in the mouse led to defects in synaptic transmission, it is hard to see how inhibition of USP14 was a plausible therapeutic strategy. Minor Points. The quantitative data in figures 1 and 2 are expressed as being normalized to beta actin levels. No indication is given as to the number of replicates or whether any statistical analysis was done. The raw data is shown as immunoblots with epitope tags, so the conclusions appear justifiable. Nevertheless, the number of experimental replicates must be given and the case would be more compelling with statistics. Technically, the bar graphs show ratios, which are dimensionless, not arbitrary units. 