The author provides information on a single research study participant who incidentally experienced vasomotor symptoms while testing a physiological monitor in what is presumably a separate study. Changes in electrodermal activity appeared to correlate with self reported night time vasomotor symptoms. This case report describes the experience of a single volunteer. There are several details missing that would make it easier to understand how the original study was conducted. The scholarship of the manuscript is also incomplete. The parent study in which the participant with vasomotor symptoms was recruited is inadequately described. If already published, a reference to the study would be helpful. If it not published or is proprietary, basic information about inclusion and exclusion criteria for the parent study is important to provide (age and sex of participants, BMI inclusion/exclusion, if any, comorbidity or medications, for a start). It is curious why the author recorded only night time EDA. Why not perform a subjective, daytime hot flash assessment concurrent with the wearing of the monitor to assess the relationship better? The presentation would benefit greatly from a more quantitative assessment of the agreement between night time hot flashes that disrupted the participant’s sleep and objectively determined hot flashes using the monitor. The Figures do not convey information with sufficient clarity. It appears that two days of EDA data are overlaid, yet we do not know whether these were nights with vasomotor symptoms or not. It appears to be assumed that a rise in EDA means the same thing as a hot flash. How can the author be sure of this? The presentation of two years’ data in Figure 2 is also unclear. In terms of scholarship, the author does not include past literature on skin conductance monitors that have been tried (Newton KM, et al. Methods for the Design of Vasomotor Symptom Trials: The MsFLASH Network 1 and the Bahr DE, et al . Miniature ambulatory skin conductance monitor and algorithm for investigating hot flash events 2 are two examples the come immediately to mind). There is debate within the field as to the helpfulness of objective hot flash measurements using skin conductance. Many clinicians and patients believe that, since subjective symptoms drive treatment-seeking, objective assessments are relatively moot. The author should at least attempt to address this limitation in the manuscript. 