The article of Strong et al . focuses on the description of the bacterial community of a duck fecal sample. In the study the authors analyzed 16S rDNA pyrosequencing data to determine the identity and diversity of the bacteria present in the sample. They also collected water samples and performed similar studies in order to determine if the water was influenced by the duck staging over the area were the sample was collected. The presence of pathogenic bacteria in avian feces is well documented, although most of the work has been conducted with a relatively limited number of species. It is also known that birds can influence the microbial quality of surface waters. Thus any additional data on the occurrence and relative abundance of potential pathogens from birds and their relationship to human health risks is welcomed. The study, as presented, suffers from some relevant limitations and in my opinion the data should be considered preliminary in nature. Perhaps the most important one is the low number of samples analyzed (n=1) for the fecal and water samples. Thus in this regard it would be difficult to determine if this sample is representative of the duck fecal microbiota or not. It is also not clear how many sequences were analyzed in this study and which area of the 16S rRNA gene was used in the analysis. The authors mentioned that they amplified the entire 16S rRNA gene but normally such large amplicons are not used for next generation sequencing. To this reviewer it seems that there is some details missing on the method, e.g. perhaps the sequencing facility performed a second amplification with primers that generated a smaller PCR product which was compatible with the sequencing technology. There are many other details on the methods used that are not clear, such as how long was the fecal sample at room temperature before it was processed, holding time for water sample before processed, the total volume of water filtered and how it was filtered. They also collected and analyzed one water sample on one data, which again it would be difficult to be representative of the pond. Typically, more samples would be needed to arrive at any conclusions. There is also the issue of using relatively short fragments of the 16S rRNA to accurately identify a bacterium at the species levels. What was the length of the sequences used in each of the cases and what was the sequence identity for each of the sequences that were identified as closely related to the identified pathogens? The authors would benefit from performing additional assays to further confirm the presence of potentially pathogenic populations. 16S rDNA-based assays might be available for some of the “pathogens” identified but preferably functional genes should be used if considered for such an exercise. The authors should also considered to compare this dataset (albeit limited in scope) with other studies in which 16S rDNA sequencing information has been used to describe avian fecal microbiota. As a minor comment, there are two data points in Figure 1 (which actually is a table) for Fusobacteria.