This interesting contribution by Bajorath et al. addresses an important part of the inverse QSAR problem towards automated generation of structures with high activity from QSAR models. Inverse-QSAR, while intellectually appealing, does not find significant applications in modelling in the pharmaceutical industry. Main limitations are linked to de-novo structure generation due to issues with synthetic accessibility. Another hurdle is the challenge to identify the optimal descriptor setting for a model. The authors focus on this latter point, namely a novel and accurate approach for coordinate optimization. They demonstrate how to generate optimal descriptor coordinates under certain constraints like model applicability domain and meaningful descriptor values. A convincing validation study using virtual screening in ChEMBL 22 is also presented. The report title and abstract cover the content well. The chemoinformatics approach is well conducted and clearly described. The results are presented in a clear and interesting way and capture the interest of F1000 readers. The authors might also want to mention, whether software tools and subroutines from their study are available. Therefore this contribution is an essential view on interpretation of QSAR models and should be indexed in its present form. Some points could be addressed to highlight further aspects of their work. How does such an optimization approach handle typical types of variables from real-life models, e.g. two-level variables, variables with small or no SD? Often model analysis should not result in a single solution, but multiple related structures. Could the optimization approach find multiple descriptor regions to offer options for monitoring secondary properties (e.g. solubility)? It might be illustrative for one ChEMBL target to systematically generate analogs for potent leads close to the descriptor optimum by applying simple MedChem transformations and check, whether some analogs come closer to the optimum in descriptor space. Chemical changes are minimal here and one could access their impact to the descriptor optimum. The moderate VS success using QSAR models might suggest a non-optimal approach to define the applicability domain. Some details on the AD definition and the descriptor space might be useful. Do the authors expect that a more strict AD definition might produce reliable results? What does this mean for de-novo structure generation as second step? Is it possible to apply such a concept for multi-parameter optimization, e.g. multiple QSAR models combined for predicting compound profiles / selectivity / druglikeness? Minor point: Drawings of chemical structures in figure 7 need to be checked. 