This is a hopeful article, pointing out the many exciting areas where scientific advances might be applied to better understand and treat patients with chronic bladder pain. Unfortunately, while the individual statements are factually correct, the guiding vision is rooted in the same narrow conception of disease that has produced so many failed studies over the past decades. The author acknowledges that IC/BPS is not well understood, "It is unclear if IC/BPS is one disease, one disease associated with other conditions, such as chronic fatigue syndrome, Crohn’s disease, irritable bowel syndrome, endometriosis and vulvodynia, for example, or a systemic condition with a urinary or hematologic marker yet to be found." In 1978, Meares and Stamey hypothesized that "petechia-like hemorrhages (glomerulations) on the second distention of the bladder is the hallmark of interstitial cystitis, and that a reduced bladder capacity and a Hunner's ulcer represent a different (classic stage of the disease). 1 " From this point glomerulations became the key to diagnosis (even worse, now we rely only on symptoms to diagnose BPS). However, this hypothesis was wrong. After over 40 years there is not even a single case report of a patient progressing from glomerulations to classic IC. A recent review concluded that there was, "no convincing evidence . . . that glomerulation should be included in the diagnosis or phenotyping of BPS/IC. 2 " In fact, classic ulcerative Interstitial Cystitis (IC) is almost certainly a unique disease and, if thought leaders were to acknowledge it as such, great progress might be made in this area. The author's approaches might even pay off in this population. On the other hand, Bladder Pain Syndrome (BPS) is no more than what its name implies--a syndrome, a group of patients with similar symptoms. This may be useful for epidemiological purposes, but it is of little value clinically. These patients have many different individual causes for their symptoms. It is usually possible to identify the primary symptom drivers in individual patients and, using this, treat them successfully. Individual patients can achieve remission with therapies as diverse as bladder instillations, myofascial physical therapy, and treatment aimed at central sensitization. It does not make sense to enrol such diverse BPS patients in clinical or research trials; in particular, there is no rationale to combine IC and BPS in any type of research protocol. I agree with the author that, "researchers in urology think ‘outside the box’ and increase their collaboration with researchers in other fields of medicine". However, studies should be done with reasonably homogeneous groups of patients and using appropriate hypotheses. It may well be worth revisiting mast cell abnormalities in cohorts of patients with multiple allergies. Advances in infectious disease might plausibly be applied to those classic IC or a clear bladder-centric phenotype. A great many patients have risk factors for and evidence of central sensitization. The NIDDK MAPP study group is exploring such patients and has already made many relevant observations. As the author emphasizes, "It is important to keep in mind how far we have to go, how much misery this condition is still causing, and how many hundreds of thousands of lives IC/BPS continues to ravage." Nevertheless, research funding and effort is a scarce commodity and must be directed wisely. Continuing to use the same paradigm that has produced so little will not be wise. 