This manuscript has two components: a description of current genomic, proteomic, and transcriptomic resources for chondrichthyan fishes and a description of the SkateBase project. Of the two, I would rather have seen more emphasis on SkateBase since the rate at which new data are being generated will make the survey data presented in the manuscript increasingly incomplete. Nevertheless I think it is a good paper worthy of publication and SkateBase seems to be a valuable resource. Specific comments include: Abstract capitalize Sarcopterygii, Actinopterygii misspelled. Throughout the manuscript there are numerous inconsistencies in capitalization, e.g. order Chimaeriformes and Fish barcode of life (FISH-BOL) a working group of the International Barcode of Life Project (iBOL) both on page 8. Introduction In the first sentence replace Chondrichthyan fishes with Living chondrichthyan fishes. Paragraph 2 The text implies that the only benefits of chondrichthyans are ecotourism and fisheries. Perhaps a mention of ecological services (e.g. food-web dynamics) or other benefits of chondrichthyan conservation would be appropriate here. Paragraph 4 parthenogenesis seems redundant. Paragraph 5 perhaps some more details on the distribution, life history, reproductive mode, genome size etc. of little skate is in order. Why is the geographic location of the species relevant? Figure 1 is hard for me to decipher. I cant figure out what the two separate outer rings indicate and why the spacing between them is different for the orders vs. the families, genera, and species. I really think this figure is too complex and tries to cram too much information that is peripheral to the goals of the paper into a single figure. I may be old fashioned, but I think a table that listed the numbers of families, genera, and species would have been sufficient. There also needs to be a citation on the source of the information as the taxonomy and number of recognized species of chondrichthyans is changing. Figure 4B A citation is needed for the cladogram.