The paper reports the performance of an immunochromatography cartridge for the rapid detection of norovirus and rotavirus against an RT-PCR reference method. The specimens selected (n=100) were collected between January and June 2015 in Bangladesh and had been frozen prior to use. The authors also calculated the sensitivity and specificity of the kit and made recommendations regarding the potential use. However, the paper has a few problems: 1. The calculations in Table 1 and 2 are incorrect. The sum of the rows and columns do not total 100. Consider correcting the tables an indicated below. Table 1. Comparison of norovirus detection in stool samples by IP-Noro/Rota kit and RT-PCR method (n=100) Test result RT-PCR IP-Noro/Rota kit Positive Negative Total Positive 10 1 11 Negative 0 89 89 Total 10 90 100 Table 2. Comparison of rotavirus detection in stool samples by IP-Noro/Rota kit and RT-PCR method (n=100) Test result RT-PCR IP-Noro/Rota kit Positive Negative Total Positive 74 3 77 Negative 0 23 23 Total 74 26 100 The calculations for specificity are, therefore, incorrect. This should be correct in the next version of the paper. 2. The authors briefly mention the broad typing results for norovirus (genogroup II) and rotavirus (G1P[8]) but fail to give any indication of the methods used to obtain these results. It makes it difficult for the reviewers and readers to assess the results presented. In addition, no detailed genotyping results were presented for the viral strains detected. Most current papers evaluating diagnostic assays for enteric viruses include genotyping data for the virus strains detected - see references below. 3. The authors failed to report the manufacturers’ sensitivity and specificity for the kit or to compare their results to other studies that evaluated the same or similar kits – see articles below. Alternatively, if this is a new formulation of the kit being evaluated the authors should indicate this fact. 4. The authors utilized stool specimens that were frozen for an unspecified period (but approximately three years if the study was completed in 2018). The prolonged storage or repeated freeze/thawing could have contributed to a degree of degradation of the viruses in the stool material and should have been listed as a potential limitation of the study. However, the screening of the frozen stool specimens is a previously utilized approach for evaluating diagnostic kits. 5. If the kit is introduced according to the author’s recommendations, it is more likely that fresh stool specimens will be screened. Therefore, the authors should consider evaluating the kit using fresh stool specimens from routine surveillance or during an outbreak which would mimic real world use and provide better estimates of sensitivity and specificity. 6. Based on the detection rate of rotavirus in the stool specimens selected for the evaluation (74%), these specimens were collected during the rotavirus season in Bangladesh. While the results indicate that the kit would be adequate for use during the rotavirus season (barring a few false positive results), it does not give any indication of the kits performance when the rotavirus prevalence declines, outside of the rotavirus season. Additional comments: The term “developing country” is imprecise and inaccurate with no standard definition of what constitutes a developing country. The World Bank has defined standards for classifying countries so a better definition or term is a low-income country. Please correct in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Introduction and in the last paragraph of the conclusions. Please check your nomenclature for rotavirus genotypes – G1P[8] and not G1P 8 . The statement “ Our findings clearly indicate that rotavirus and norovirus are the most important enteropathogen responsible for acute viral gastroenteritis among infants and children in Bangladesh, where 74% of the cases were caused by rotavirus only” is not valid. The authors only screened for rotavirus and norovirus. Other enteric viruses may also be important in gastroenteritis in children in Bangladesh but because the authors failed to screen for these pathogens, these observations would have been missed and, therefore, conclusions regarding viral enteropathogen importance are incorrect. 