The manuscript discusses the uniqueness of human intelligence (HI) despite its apparent evolutionary advantages. Although the theme has been tirelessly revisited by many authors, a new theory is offered, that higher intelligence is disadvantageous and kept from developing through negative feedback. The author briefly goes through the main molecular and ecological arguments for the appearance and advantages of high intelligence, showing that those are not especially uncommon or slow in evolutionary history. Therefore, none could fully justify the evolution of HI, suggesting it to be generally an unfavorable trait. The theory is well constructed and the references support the hypothesis. Despite that, there are a few points in the manuscript that warrant attention: Page 3 - "Brain size, structure, and complexity" The author affirms that " In terms of genetic modifications, the development of the human brain therefore appears to be based on extending already existing features through gradual and common mechanisms, rather than being the result of a developmental quantum leap" (page 3, para 5, line 33) . The example given a few lines before, of Pax6, as well as other well known genes, such as the human-specific ARHGAP11B, despite being relatively small changes, result in significant leaps in brain development. The later example of octopuses also seems to indicate a sudden change, from the moment molluscs lost their shells, which still supports the paragraph conclusion that the genetic mechanisms that allow intelligence are available to other species. Page 5 - "Language and intelligence" In general, this session is not clear about language being a requirement for the development of HI, a mere consequence of it, or something in between, with some contradictions. For example "It is therefore not the capacity for an articulate vocalization, but only a predisposition for it, that is essential to the evolution of HI" (page 5, para 5, line 11) and "current evidence suggests that the evolution of a HI-supporting language is not a feature strictly limited to humans or the human brain anatomy or speech production" (page 5, para 7, line 6) . The conclusion is especially confusing when declaring "HI-supporting language" while the manuscript appears to state that language is not a prerequisite for HI. About the passage: "Let us now consider language syntax and acquisition with respect to human uniqueness. It has indeed been proposed that such properties of the human language are neither specific to language nor to humans (47,48)" (page 5, para 6, line 1) . The references cited (47, 48) indicate that there may be a human-only syntax, either through universal grammar or simply an advanced form of syntax allowed by the human FLB. Page 7 - "Conclusion and outlook" Despite mentioning the possible negative feedback from molecular complexity, I couldn't find any examination of it in the main text. For reference: "the main barrier towards HI is not only the development of the required physical assets, but also that negative feedback from social, behavioural and molecular complexity, as well as negative environmental feedback make the development of HI increasingly unfavourable" (page 7, para 4, line 11) . I wonder if there is a link between HI and sexual selection. Although intelligence as a simple fitness indicator would be equally accessible to other animals as well, cultural and behavioral products could also have influenced mating preferences. Finally, the text mentions the possible negative feedback of niche construction: page 7, "there might be a different type of negative feedback loop intrinsic to HI—HI might simply allow a species to become so successful in exploiting food resources that these resources become exhausted" (page 7, para 3, line 1) and again on the conclusion "we are knowingly and consciously pursuing our unsustainable development that is rapidly destroying the resources upon which we critically depend" (page 7, para 6, line 6) . Despite that, HI also generates powerful positive feedback with niche construction, in which the environmental changes produced by HI favor HI itself. 