Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to review this manuscript. I hope my review comments will lead to further improvement of the manuscript. General comments: The manuscript addresses important research questions about changes of uptake, time to initiation and retention. Adherence to ART is an important issue in the management of patients in ART programmes. I am surprised that the authors did not look at adherence while looking at key programme indicators. Although the authors indicate how monitoring of patients using viral loads was done before and after treat all, they did not look at this as one of their study outcomes. The authors need to acknowledge this as one of the weaknesses of this study. Specific comments: Introduction: In paragraph 2 of the introduction, the authors say that research in other countries demonstrated that after implementation of the “treat all”, people on ART had better outcomes. The authors should mention these countries and specifically mention which ART outcomes were better. The authors need to give more details on the 14% prevalence of HIV in Zimbabwe. The references given are for 2012, 2016 and 2018. Is the current HIV prevalence in Zimbabwe still 14%? How was this national prevalence of HIV estimated in Zimbabwe? In the introduction, the authors should mention the proportion of HIV infected people who were taking ART before the treat all policy became operational and the proportion currently when treat all policy is operational. Methods: Can you give more information on the 77 ART sites providing HIV diagnosis and treatment? Are these public facilities or private facilities? Are there private providers of ART in Harare? If they are there, is the information captured by District health Information systems? Is data on ART adherence captured at these ART treatment sites? When people on ART get lost to follow up, is there anything done to establish reasons why they got lost to follow up? Discussion: You need to acknowledge the weakness of not looking at adherence in this study. You actually seem to agree with me on this point where you say “another potential reason for the observed lower retention could be deficiencies in coverage of quality adherence counselling with likely increased work load during the “treat all era”. You also need to recommend qualitative studies to look at why retention remained low in the treat all era in Harare compared to other studies in other countries. You rightly said you speculated. 