In this paper, Ohmann et. al. perform a detailed analysis of steps required to share patient microdata from clinical trials with the research community. They provide a process diagram describing the workflow of preparing, transferring and maintaining the data and metadata to an external repository. The main part of the work consists of a comprehensive list of all sub-processes, the involved actors and services or tools. They also elaborate on scope and depth of the services or tools and give examples. The valuable contribution of this work lies in the sequential structuring of data sharing tasks. Especially study groups who want (or have to) actively provide data have a checklist at hand, which gives them the opportunity to assess each sub-task in its complexity and to put together suitable persons or teams for implementation. This prevents important stakeholders from being overlooked or partial steps from being insufficiently taken into account, particularly with regard to regulatory issues. The article focuses on aspects of data sharing in clinical trials, addressing a relevant problem of academic research, namely the long-term availability of research results in an environment that has only a limited lifespan due to project funding. It shows the complexity of the topic and every research group should already think about it during the project planning phase. Additionally, it is also relevant for other types of research projects, such as clinical registries, epidemiological cohorts or studies in health care research, with minor modifications. I particularly liked the fact that aspects of providing analysis environments were also addressed, e.g. with special Docker containers that bring the evaluation algorithms to the data instead of releasing data. The weak part of the paper is that even with a detailed listing of the sub-processes and the relevant tools, most researchers will find it difficult to design a concrete implementation strategy or to check whether the implementation meets the state of the art. Notes such as "Provide sample documents", "Assess risk of re-identification" or "Select suitable metadata schemas for object discovery" are simply too vague to be a real help. At this point, a knowledge base must be built up that provides researchers with concrete guidelines, implementation guidelines and example scenarios for successful projects. Points to address: The workflow in Figure 1 assumes that the data set is only imported once into an external repository. However, there are many scenarios in which data sets will have to be updated or extended, e.g. in long-running investigations where interim evaluations are already being carried out. Snapshots of shared data must be saved for verification purposes. Some years ago, there has been an EMA draft policy on publication and access to clinical-trial data [1] . I’m not sure about the current status but it would be interesting to include the effort in this paper. Page 6, section 2.3.2 “Include request for broad consent for data sharing in informed consent documents.” The term broad consent might require a more detailed definition, because in Germany consent is always contextual and without specific and the ethics committees are looking into this. Metadata (sections 2.5, 5.4, 7.1) should not be limited to semantics and discovery. Another important topic for metadata is provenance metadata (measurement conditions, data quality, algorithms for calculated data) 