The growth hormone (GH)/IGF-1 axis has a complex relationship with glucose homeostasis, as GH promotes insulin resistance while IGF-1 contributes to insulin sensitivity. Patients with acromegaly and GH excess tend to have insulin resistance that improves with GH receptor blockade (pegvisomant). The authors of this manuscript set out to investigate an interesting question—that is, would GH receptor blockade for one month in men with insulin resistance but without type 2 diabetes mellitus improve whole body insulin sensitivity (M/I) while reducing lipolysis and endogenous glucose production (EGP). Methodology in this trial was rigorous, including controlled metabolic diets the evening prior to assessment, hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp with stable isotope infusions, indirect calorimetry and body composition by DXA. The authors demonstrated that despite adequate GH blockade (as evidenced by a drop in IGF-1 levels), there were no differences in insulin sensitivity, lipolysis or EGP after 1 month of GH receptor blockade. The authors thoughtfully discuss potential rationale for these negative results, including small sample size with limited power, variability of GH receptor blockade in liver versus adipose tissue as well as near-total suppression of EGP at baseline, limiting the ability to detect further suppression of EGP at follow up after pegvisomant administration. In their summary, they raise the interesting point that despite these negative results in men with insulin resistance but no diabetes, it might be worthwhile studying a more severe phenotype, such as those with untreated, newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus. This is a well written manuscript that addresses an important gap in knowledge related to the GH/IGF-1 axis and insulin resistance. One point for the authors to consider updating: In the abstract the subject ages are listed as 18-62 years while the methods section of the paper lists enrolled ages of 52-57 years. Given the mean age of 54.5 2.1 years, I presume the latter age range is probably more accurate of subjects who were actually enrolled. 