The Authors present a compelling case report where the concomitance of a rare sinonasal vascular tumour, i.e. a juvenile angiofibroma, and haemophilia A delayed diagnosis and complicated clinical management. As the authors correctly demonstrate in the report, a sub-optimal healthcare setting led to haemophilia first diagnosis delay and, foremost, delayed the identification of the neoplasm despite the recurrence of profuse bleeding. The article is well written, both by a grammar and literary standpoint, and present all clinical information on diagnosis and management in a complete fashion. The clinical management is sound and clinical decisions are consistent with current guidelines and good clinical practice. The article could be publishable in this present form, but I'd like to point out a couple of ideas that might add some teaching relevance to the article: First of all, it might be worth mentioning that in good rhinologic practice, performing sinonasal tumors biopsies without adequate imaging can result to harmful or fatal incidents. Had the clinicians decided to perform a biopsy in an outpatient setting, a massive epistaxis could have led to serious complications for this patient, without helping further clinical decisions. This is the case of the - correctly cited - case report already published by Ozturk. Secondly, while it is true that haemophilia guidelines do not advise routine evaluation for epistaxis, on the other hand epistaxis guidelines 1 do recommend for a thorough evaluation of the patient in order to identify the bleeding source in all case, starting with anterior rhinoscopy and escalating to nasal endoscopy whenever the source of bleeding cannot be easily identified. Therefore, it is worth mentioning that correct management of all epistaxis cases required identification of the bleeding source. Last, while the CT scan the authors provided allows a good depiction of the clinical picture, it would be interesting to see whether the CT scans showed enlargement of the sphenopalatine foramen. While such enlargement is not constant in all JA patients, an enlargement 3mm in presence of a unilateral sinonasal mass can point the diagnosis towards JA. In conclusion, this is an extremely interesting article well deserving publication, with an interesting teaching value that could be further increased with some more information as above stated. 