The authors present a new tool that aims to simplify searching for cancer-related publications. There is no doubt that the number of publications in this field is ever increasing and hence a tool like this could prove useful in narrowing down the number of citations that could be of interest. Is the description of the software tool technically sound? I said "partly" as the "technical details" within the manuscript itself number only a total of 11 lines of text and don't really give any description as such - what does "Snowball stemmer" do? What PubMed files were parsed? Etc. However, at the end of the manuscript the authors state all of the software is freely available in GitHub, so while there is very little discussion of the software tool itself, hopefully someone could reconstruct the work using the software listed (I wasn't about to try this). I used the URL listed for accessing the tool - in fact this URL then directs you to another URL, http://bioinformatics.eaternct.edu/app/CPP/ . I have no idea why that URL isn't actually listed in the manuscript, and it was disappointing to see that they haven't bothered to make this https instead of http. A few comments on the user interface: the home button doesn't seem to take you anywhere - if you've run a search and click home you stay exactly where you are on the results page. Also clicking on "Cancer Publication Portal" doesn't take you anywhere; personally I find it quite irritating that the initial stages of any search, selecting your filters, involve a modal popup window, which then closes, it also makes modifying the terms clunky; the order of the genes listed in the drop-down seems very odd (I think it could be based on the NCBI Gene ID for each gene?) - it would make more sense to make the list alphabetical; when selecting the "terms", it would be helpful to have an "X" next to each selected term to make it clear how they can be removed (clicking delete did remove the term but it also did something odd to the "selected" box, where a dropdown suddenly appeared...(using Firefox 72.0.2 in Windows 10)); variations could be viewed as a better term than "mutations"; in the "mutations". A key aspect of the tool is that after applying the filters you can then either download the resulting set of PubMed IDs, or you can transfer (by literally copying and pasting) the IDs to view them in "PubTator", which opens in an iframe. I did find it variable whether "PubTator" would retrieve results or I would simply get a blank iframe. Also, some results give 1000s of PMIDs, which is clearly far too many for PubTator to cope with (again, blank iframe resulted). Several times I got results that said: Welcome! Guest. | Log in Results: 1 to 3 of 3 1 No Title PMID: {"error":"API - Related citations ABSTRACT not availiable 2 No Title PMID: rate - Related citations ABSTRACT not availiable 3 No Title PMID: limit - Related citations ABSTRACT not availiable 4 No Title PMID: exceeded","api-key":"130.14.18.113","count":"4","limit":"3"} - Related citations ABSTRACT not availiable and that was simply copying and pasting 3 PMIDs (note typo in word "available"). So I am not convinced that the viewing in PubTator aspect, while potentially useful, is actually fully operational. Furthermore, when PubTator opens in the iframe it clearly says "You will be automatically redirected to the new and improved PubTator Central (PubTator 2.0) website after January 2020. " Well, it's definitely February and I wasn't redirected anywhere... The methodology in general seems to rely heavily upon PubTator; the PubTator 2019 paper claims it is updated daily so it would be good to know how often CPP updates their initial "PubTator" data. Indeed, how often they update any of the data sources and how their update cycles run would be very helpful. I am also confused by Figure 1, as it has PubMed as a separate input from PubTator, but I understood that PubTator was based on PubMed? Surely concept-article associations have to have source articles in the first place? The abstract states "CPP currently includes information for ~1.1 million cancer-related publications associated with 23,000 human genes" but then Table 1 and the text states 19,551 genes. Also, why 19,551 genes? This is never explained. The set appears to include pseudogenes and long ncRNAs so this could also be worth mentioning. I am also less than convinced about the usefulness of the "cancer terms" when they can be as general as "patient", "DNA", "diagnosis" etc, but I guess it is up to the user to assess their utility themselves. A lot of emphasis is placed on their inclusion in this tool, but in reality I am dubious about how useful they would actually be. I think there are far too many figures included, and mostly screenshots - these need to be condensed to show key information, or removed altogether. In summary, I think this paper describes a tool that is a good concept, but the execution currently needs some more development and there are clearly some bugs. If these bugs were fixed and perhaps some UX testing done to improve the tool and the manuscript discussed this and dealt with the issues I have raised above, both would be greatly improved. 