There are a number of issues that mitigate against the authors conclusion that Lyme disease can be transmitted sexually. While there are conflicting reports from animal studies that there can be transmission by contact between animals and other studies that appear to better controlled that do not provide such evidence, there is no obvious epidemiological evidence in humans that this is a likely possibility. Apart from the sociologic implications of claiming that intimate or even casual transmission is possible, there needs to be more compelling evidence that this might be the case than is offered in this report. Specific issues in this report: No evidence that samples were blinded. The numbers of patients were too small from which to draw meaningful conclusions. The actual serologic data on patients should be presented in order to be more properly assessed. PCR-DNA analyses should have been done on the original specimens; again in a blinded fashion, and weekly during the culture period. And, as PCR-DNA testing is much more sensitive than cultures, without this information, the validity of the presented information remains in question. Concurrent samples of other body fluids, i.e. blood, saliva, should have been included. Even if presuming the presence of the Lyme borrelia in vaginal secretions or semen, the numbers present would have not been sufficient to cause any transmission of infection, as, with any infectious process, there needs to be a critical inoculum to establish infection. This is the case with transmission by ticks. Borrelia may be spirochetes as are Treponemes and Leptospira , but the transmission of the latter are obviously through body fluids, and not by tick or other vectors. It is not clear that infections transmitted by ticks are also transmitted by intimate or casual contact. If it was true that 8/11 samples were positive, one would expect a much more obvious clinical picture of transmission by intimate or casual contact, which is not the case. PCR-DNA analyses and long-term cultures can be subject to contamination, making the data here more difficult to interpret. 