INTRODUCTION: The introduction gives a generally confusing background that doesn’t focus on the object of the study. The statement “Prostate cancer is not the deadliest type of cancer ” is incorrect. Prostate cancer is in fact the most common cancer in men and the second leading cause of death after lung cancer. I would state pragmatically: Prostate cancer is the most common …….. Early diagnosis lead to ……even if the screening trials have shown conflicting results……overtreatment…… However, the prostate cancer awareness is another important…….it might allow to optimize an opportunistic screening…… The prostate cancer awareness has been spread in the last years by …..month awareness….. However the effective level of awareness in the population is difficult to assess……… This study was performed in order to establish the level of awareness of prostate cancer among college students at Brigham Young University of Idaho (BYU-I). METHODS: In the methods section we usually specify only the methods we use to reach the results, how we select the population study, the variables, characteristics and statistical method. We don’t speak about numbers which have to be mentioned in the results section: “ After a little over one week of compiling we received 55 responses ”. “We initially had 12 questions and decided to only use 5 of these, besides age and gender, to make the survey as short and purposeful as possible.” “To avoid any bias, efforts were made to have questions clear and understandable, well-structured, logical and sh…” The above statements are discussion statements; they are not suitable to be put in the MM section. The questionnaire includes 5 empiric questions: Have you heard of prostate cancer? Do you know or have you heard of someone suffering from prostate cancer? How familiar are you with prostate cancer? Is one of the following symptoms of prostate cancer? (Pain, Trouble urinating, Blood in urine). Is one of the following treatments for prostate cancer? (Surgery, Radiation Therapy, Anti Hormonal therapy). No one of these regard screening and early detection, which is the most important target of cancer awareness. Questions 1, 2 and 3 have the same meaning. In particular, question 3 doesn’t allow a ‘yes/no/I don’t know’ answer. Question 4 is completely useless because early stage curable prostate cancer is not symptomatic. Question 5 has to be addressed to healthcare professionals. RESULTS: I cannot discuss the results but a statistical analysis is very hard in the people who gave feedback. The sample is very limited. The variables have to be described as mean, range, SD. DISCUSSION: The authors do a dissertation about prostate cancer awareness. I instead would have discussed the results of this study: Low number of feedbacks. Methodology chosen to reach the people has to be discussed because it led to very poor results. The statement “It was interesting to see that although prostate cancer affects men, in our study fewer men had heard of prostate cancer than women” has to be discussed. “The present survey showed clear evidence of the lack of prostate cancer awareness among college students at BYU-I”. It is not a clear evidence because these results could be due to an insufficient methodology… CONCLUSIONS: The conclusions are not supported. In my opinion this article is not suitable for indexing. 