In this study the authors have sought to improve the alignment protocols that make use of standard tools such as PSI-BLAST and PHI-BLAST to find protein sequences that are remotely related to a query sequence. These distant relationships would be useful in annotating protein functions and designing experiments. The authors of this study use multiple queries (MQ) as a starting point to detect protein homologous relationships. The results from MQ are compared against another search that makes use of multiple patterns deduced from multiple queries (MPMQ). The protocol has been benchmarked on a set of 12 superfamilies consisting of different fold types. The manuscript is clearly presented and the plots and tables make their points clearly and unambiguously. I wish that the authors would clarify the following points: For any given query sequence what would be the best strategy to adopt: MQ or MPMQ? How would a potential user make this judgement? The prescriptions (conclusions section) from the text are a little ambivalent, especially to a non-expert user/reader. Demonstrating the efficacy of the search protocol over only 3 examples of each type of fold (alpha, beta, alpha/beta and alpha+beta) may not be sufficient. The authors should look to increase the benchmark size or show that that the current benchmark is statistically representative. While the authors have not discussed this in depth, the implication appears to be that the search results appear to be independent of fold type. Could the authors comment on whether this is true for other types of SCOP fold families (trans-membrane proteins etc)? In the two parts of Figure 2, it is apparent that most PSSMs diverge (non-retention of query), if at all, within the first 50% of the iterations. Only very seldom does this happen afterwards. Is there a lesson one can learn from this result? Could future search strategies make use of this observation? Admittedly not all divergent PSSMs are detrimental to the finding of homologues, but is there a way one can control for this during the search? It would be instructive to have a somewhat more quantitative description of the process in the abstract. I think that reader would benefit in knowing how much better the two protocols are ( more sequence homologues identified; or TP rate goes up by and FP rate reduces by - or something along these lines).The same quantifiable measures should also be mentioned in the concluding section. Minor points In the pattern generation sub-section of the Methods section, the authors say that in the event of inadequate number of hits they relax the stringent criteria of allowing hits between 60-90% in sequence identity to include sequences in the range 40-95%. Why is the range 40-95% not used uniformly? Is it the case that the pattern recognition program suffers from a drastic decrease in efficiency when decreasing sequence identity from 60 to 40%? What happens in cases where patterns are 15 amino acids in length? How does the program deal with this? Does it break the patterns into subsets of lengths that have a maximum length of 15? 