This manuscript uses Drosophila to screen by miRNAs for essential glial genes, identifying and briefly investigating one of the candidates ( gartenzweg or garz ). The screen appears to be conducted well, the data logically presented and the outcomes interesting and novel. The screening method and methodological algorithm is straight-forward and described well. I have no negative issues with the experiments and believe this is a valid topic for publication that will prove useful to the community. In addition, I agree whole-heartedly that the 3Rs benefits are well demonstrated for studying miRNAs, glia and GBF1 biology specifically. I have only minor suggestions for improvement, where the authors may want to reconsider wording to accurately reflect outcomes. The overall interpretations of the manuscript are that this screen is identifying glial functions. From the manuscript, however, it is not clear what these functions actually are? The experiments manipulate expression in glial cells – and then measure broad outcome phenotypes such as lifespan and locomotion. However, I don’t think the authors are necessarily suggesting that the function of glia is lifespan or locomotion. Later there are experiments that infer potential alterations to intracellular trafficking in glia, but I find these experiments more representative of garz function in glia rather than glial function itself. The glia are targeted by miRNA expression and RNAi in the glia themselves. As miRNAs can be potentially released by exocytosis, it would be worthwhile to discuss the possibility for effects originating in other cells. The authors have done a nice control with the RNAi in neurons; however, this has partially replicated the glial RNAi effects and thus overall may reflect some transcellular effects. The manuscript indicates remarkable conservation in function between garz and GBF1; however, I would suggest tempering that conclusion given that they do have divergent effects (e.g. one is toxic, one is not). It isn’t entirely clear why CD8 trafficking was selected for investigation over other possibilities. Given the lack of effect on cadherin trafficking, the speculation that overall trafficking in glia is impaired seems premature. 