The authors put forth an opinion article in regard to a double negative feedback loop that controls cerebral insulin receptor signaling during times of either high glutamate or insulin levels. They briefly go onto hypothesize that any disease state resulting in elevated intracellular calcium will result in reduced cerebral insulin resistance, particularly when excitotoxicity is a comorbid factor. The authors attempt to simplify an extremely complicated phenomenon. However, this oversimplification neglects to take into account several factors that need to be addressed. Reduced insulin signaling as a result for glutamate induced calcium influx has been discussed in other literature (see Zhao et al. , 2008 1 ). This work should be taken into consideration when authors discuss their model. Although insulin receptors are ubiquitously expressed in different cell types of the CNS, these cell types rely on different mechanisms for ATP production. Glial cells predominantly use glycolytic pathways in the cytoplasm whereas neurons rely on oxidative phosphorylation in the mitochondria. (For review see Pellerin and Magistretti, 2012 2 ). Accordingly, the cellular localization of ATP production should be taken into consideration. Furthermore, do the authors believe different cell type specific mechanisms exist that their model should take into consideration? In several places, the authors discuss the role of amyloid on activation of NMDA receptors and the subsequent intracellular Calcium increase. However, the authors have not taken into account how amyloid binding can also elicit glutamate release from either α7nAChRs (see Hascup and Hascup, 2016 3 and Mura et al. , 2012 4 ) or mGLUR5 receptors (Renner et al. , 2010 5 ). In the latter case, several laboratories have shown mGLUR5 acts as a scaffolding complex for amyloid accumulation causing receptor clustering at the membrane surface and results in elevated intracellular calcium levels. Additionally, the manuscript could be improved if a discussion on how their model might vary across different CNS disorders such as AD, Parkinson’s TBI, etc. in relation to healthy functional activity. The authors neglect to take into account factors that also play a role in modulating insulin signaling. These include: Inflammation. This is prominent in numerous disease states and can negatively impact insulin signaling, while exacerbating mechanisms associated with multiple neurodegenerative disorders. Inhibitory feedback regulation. Insulin signaling is tightly controlled to prevent perturbations in metabolism as well as control the specificity of the signal on multiple downstream effectors. Several phosphatases are responsible for this, not just at the receptor, but also on effector enzymes.The current model does not take into consideration this tightly controlled feedback loop. Receptor internalization. Upon insulin binding, the insulin receptor becomes internalized as another means to control the strength and duration of the signal. This internalization is more prominent in hyperinsulinemia and may account for the resulting insulin resistance. How would this model change during stages of insulin resistance, which are hypothesized to initiate the cognitive decline observed in AD? Peripheral insulin signaling.Insulin produced in the pancreas is able to enter the CNS.How does the proposed model take into consideration fluctuations during normal periods of food consumption? Are the authors proposing a similar mechanism for the structurally analogous insulin-like growth factor-1? Minor concerns: The glutamate pathway in Figure 1 should have a different color scheme to make it easier to differentiate from Calcium concentration. Figure 1B is slightly confusing. The red line makes it seem that low levels of glutamate give rise to high levels of Calcium instead of showing just the rise in calcium. A way to incorporate glutamate activation of NMDA receptors in Fig 1B C might help to conceptualize the model. The abstract is lengthy in relation to the article. I would suggest this is shortened and made more succinct. 