This paper presents a snapshot of career and funding-related concerns for early-career researchers in Canada, focused on a particular event held to discuss these issues. It is important that the motivations for and outcomes of this event be broadly communicated. However, as it stands the piece is unfocused and potentially confusing for its intended audience. In fact, it is not clear who the intended audience is, or what it hopes to accomplish. I think these are issues that can be addressed with reorganization of the content and bringing more focus to the points and arguments made. 1. In Canada, there seems to be considerable confusion depending on the government agency, funder, or day of the week whether the term early-career researcher (ECR) refers to graduate students and postdocs (trainees), early-career faculty/PIs, or both. “Trainees” is itself a problematic term—designating the people who actually conduct the majority of federally-funded academic research “trainees” (particularly postdocs, who are by any measure professional scientists) is part of the justification for many of the labor conditions at issue in the piece. While trainees and junior PIs share many of the same concerns about overall support for academic research, they also have distinct policy interests and career stage-specific needs and incentives. From the point of view of the authors, perhaps the biggest concern of lumping them together is that, in many cases, the interests and incentives of early-career PIs align much more with the interests of established PIs and institutions—particularly with respect to management/labor relations with graduate students and postdocs. Because this article is focused on graduate students and postdocs, and because it is presumably in part addressed to a policy audience who may be less-familiar with these distinctions and the details of academic career progression, I think a clearer distinction needs to be made. It would be most effective to focus on the concerns of trainees and transitions out of trainee status (outside and within academia), and just leave early-career PIs out of it. 2. The authors need to do a much better job at defining terms and concepts and the current “lay of the land.” Specifically, it should not assume familiarity with the Naylor Report and surrounding advocacy efforts. How are trainees supported now—what is the relative proportion of support from fellowships, grants to their PI, institutional funds? What are the advantages of fellowship funding over support from a grant? How even is institutional support across Canada or across programs within universities? How would more fellowships benefit trainees? Policy makers often do not know that the great majority of trainees are supported on grants. This makes the section on insufficient ECR funding particularly confusing, as it seems to argue against itself by pointing out that all three granting councils have policies to support junior PIs in place. As far as I know, there is no longer a broad sense that junior PIs are in crisis with respect to funding opportunities compared to more established PIs within the main granting programs of the councils—or that this was ever the perception at NSERC or SSHRC. The authors should be careful not to generalize from specific issues that arose in the context of the CIHR reforms to the Canadian research enterprise as a whole, or at least make it clear when they are talking specifically about health-related research. In any case, the relationship of ECI PI grants to funding to support trainees is not clear. Again, this is a major weakness of lumping ECI PIs and trainees together. 3. Related to the above, if the goal is to influence policy, it needs to take a more opinionated tone, particularly in the Discussion. There are long lists of problems and solutions that read like a brainstorming session with very little synthesis or prioritization. How many of these problems are in effect the same problem (insufficient overall funding available through councils, not enough academic positions, inadequate mentoring or career resources)? What are the most urgent problems? What do you believe are the most practical and effective solutions? Which problems can be approached without additional money in the system, or cannot be addressed through funding policy (perhaps some of the issues around academic culture and mentorship)? Which can only be handled by institutions, which by funders, which by government? What three (or one or five) things should a grants council president or MP or university VPR come away from this piece understanding about what trainees need and want? 4. The piece (and event) are strongly focused on biomedical science. This focus should be made clear up front. The issues faced by students and postdocs (funding, job markets, mentorship) are similar in some ways but also vary substantially across fields, even within CIHR, and are radically different for those who fall under the NSERC or SSHRC umbrellas. 5. There are missed opportunities to frame the advocacy in terms of the purpose of research funding and the broader interests of the Canadian public, as represented by federal funding agencies. For example, an argument for shifting trainee support away from operating grants and toward more emphasis on fellowships could be made based on the goals of these programs. CIHR operating grants are awarded to conduct specific research on behalf of Canadians, there is no training mandate. In contrast, the purpose of CIHR fellowships is to create “scientific, professional, or organizational leaders within and beyond the health research enterprise.” This seems much more in line with training as envisioned in this paper. It is compatible with the diversification of training (e.g. to include other kinds of experience and professional training) while operating grants as they are currently constructed are not. This could be seen as an argument for more fellowships, or to lobby funders to specifically evaluate on mentorship and training in operating grants. 6. Another example of this would be to make the case for why it is of benefit to Canada to have so many PhDs in the non-academic workforce—these arguments are articulated in the FSR and elsewhere. Right now, the piece can be read has emphasizing the needs of trainees, and it makes it much easier to be on your side if it is made equally clear how and why Canada needs you, your training, and your degrees. Should we be producing fewer PhDs? It would be one easy conclusion to draw from many of the arguments presented here, but it is a weak case for investing in better training. The Canadian ECR community showed leading up to Budget 2018 that they can be forceful and effective advocates for good science policy. It was a major disappointment, then, that their specific concerns and trainee-related FSR recommendations were for the most part ignored. Continuing to advocate is essential, and I applaud all the effort that has gone into this. I think this piece will be a valuable snapshot of current conditions for trainees and should serve as a reference for institutions and policy-makers. However, to be most effective as a reference it needs more clarity and organization. 