This article tries to compare the performance of two membranes type for BSA filtration. The two membranes are PES based membranes, UF0 and UFT304. Both membranes are PES/NMP based membranes, in which UFT304 is modified with Tetronic 304. From the characterization in this study, it was seen that UFT304 is more hydrophilic (lower contact angle) and also more porous (fingerlike structure in SEM). Because of these properties, filtration results showed that UFT 304 has higher flux (fig 2.a) and also more sustained (fig 3) for a longer BSA filtration test, but with a slightly lower solute rejection (fig 2.b). These above-mentioned finding and conclusions are obtained, shown and well explained in this article. Some suggestions and revision which should be applied to improve the quality of the paper are as follows: In the abstract, results part...It is written that UFT304 is better since it has higher flux. But for the rejection it is only mentioned for the UF0 membranes. Better mention for the UFT304. In the introduction, last paragraph about the Tetronic modified PES membranes... please add reference here. In the method, more detailed information should be added on how the data were recorded. First, for the filtration with several pressure, how long was the filtration? Is it 10 minutes? Please write it accordingly. Also, related to the filtration experiments, it is not mentioned about the replications (in supplementary, it is shown that there are data replications). The authors should add this information in the methodology. How many replications and how the average data was calculated. Furthermore, the authors should add error bar to the graphs (2a, 2b and 3). In the result, when discussing flux and rejection of BSA, it is written that the differences between the two membranes is due to differences in pore size. The authors should differentiate between pore size and porosity. Also in the discussion, it is mentioned pore density...It would be more appropriate to refer to this as porosity (finger like structure seen on SEM), otherwise it might be confused with pore size and density on the surface which are not observed in this study. Typos: Introduction, last paragraph - NMP instead of MNP Method, first paragraph - N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone instead of N-metilpirrolidon 