The article is an timely contribution to an urgent question: how do we know if research capacity strengthening is working? The analysis of the problem (a. the lack of a shared reference framework for evaluating research capacity strengthening, which in turn implies that b. the scope for systematic and cumulative learning remains limited) is convincing and valid. The methodology is clearly explained and up to existing standards and expectations for this kind of exercise. The conclusions are straightforward, and the limitations well articulated (the focus on English, and the bias towards quantitative measures being the most important ones.) A few overall comments for the authors, keeping in mind the 'agenda' the article is trying to support (i.e. developing good examples of RCS indicators), and its potential uptake: RCS lack definition too, not just indicators. The article does not differentiate between research capacity strengthening done at the national level and at the international level, or in different fields (health sciences vs social sciences, etc.). While this is key to the aim of the paper to 'survey' existing indicators, the lack of solid evaluation of RCS can be also understood as the result not so much of 'underdevelopment' of the field, but of its overdevelopment in the absence of a shared definition of what RCS is. In this sense, putting all RCS (indicators) in the 'same box' might in fact reinforce the confusion around what is there to be measured, and how. International donor-funded, project-based RCS efforts differ (in scope, objectives and means) from the RCS effort of a science council or a local research training institution - despite overlaps. Often, the difference in objectives might make indicators hard to include in the same box. In this sense, the paper should acknowledge the lack of a shared definition of RCS, and the limitation it poses to an analysis of indicators. For this specific article, it might be useful to define RCS as international, donor-funded, project-based set of activities. Arguably, the very need of a discussion on RCS evaluation is largely driven by the fact that RCS is part of the evaluation-heavy international donor sector. This might help further defining the relevant timeframe for the search, and situating RCS historically. RCS is more than the sum of quality outputs. I wonder about the lack of discussion on 'process indicators' given the nature of RCS as a set of activities. These are notoriously difficult (but not impossible) to use in the donor-funded, project-based, time-bound RCS efforts, but might be very relevant to describe change and ultimately impact. RCS impacts research systems, policy, or development? When it comes to discussion of impacts and impact indicators, the lack of definition of RCS becomes an insurmountable limitation. The study could acknowledge the need for unpacking the link between output, outcome and impact measurement/definition (particularly in light of lack of shared definition of RCS) in internationally funded programs, as a complementary exercise to the surveying of indicators. The fact that the very few impact indicators identified reveal an expectation for RCS to deliver impact on population health outcomes is a good example of the limitations imposed by lack of clear definitions. How important is the UK? Given the global audience of the piece, it might be useful to explain why the figures relating to projected RCS funding from the UK are significant to describe larger trends - particularly if figures include both 'direct' and 'indirect' RCS. 