 Overall comments: The authors have addressed many of the comments that were made on the first submission and as a result the paper is much improved. However there remain significant problems in some areas some that were overlooked in the first review, and others that the authors appear not to have taken on board. These really need to be addressed if the paper is to meet a good standard. It still requires a good edit throughout. Introduction: Change flagship to indicator . A flagship is a species whose high profile conservation ensures other lesser known species are conserved along with it. Materials and methods: Its still not clear how honey harvesting affects the forest habitat as stated. Sampling strategy: The positioning of transects is still unclear. You have provided some clarification in your response but have not put this clarification into the text. It needs to be stated in the text. In your response you say that you did not use existing paths but in your text you say When such a track was too short to cover one whole kilometre of forest , a track was selected to run parallel to the main forest track which sounds a lot like you did use existing tracks as long as they were long enough. Are you using track and transect interchangeably here? This might not help with clarity. I dont think you can refer to the transect selection as randomised. It more closely resembles a systematic selection. In your response you say why you dont think the transect selection is biased by using the 3 rd track method. This justification needs to be added to the text as many readers will still suspect that the selection using the 3 rd track would be biased. You still dont say how you ensured at least 1 km separation between transects. Please add this. Bird Survey: You do say you recorded distance to clusters please just add that you recorded cluster size too! Vegetation sampling: You clarified a lot in this section. Please add a word to say where you measured the circumference of cut stems at the base, at the place where the stem was cut, somewhere in between? Floor Litter Sampling: I still find this section baffling Litter cover was assessed by dividing the 10 10 m quadrats into 25 smaller grids of 2 2 m quadrats by use of a standard metre rule and tape measure, then counting the total number of these that was covered by litter to 34 or 66% before scoring accordingly on a proportion out of a total of 25 squares. The predominant cover score category (category observed in 15 or more of the 2 2 m squares) was taken as the overall cover score for each 10 10 m quadrat. Ranking these cover scores as 3 (66%), 2 (3465%) and 1 (33%), each score was then divided by to derive a cover score that was finally arcsine transformed towards normalization of distribution. I think this is what you did Litter cover in each 2x2 m square was scored as 1, 2 or 3 (category 1= 33%, 2= 34-65% and 3= 65% cover) and the number of squares of each category was summed and expressed as a proportion. The category occurring in more than 60% of the squares (15 out of 25) was selected as representative of the whole 10x10m plot. This overall category was converted to a proportion for further analysis. What happened if none of the categories had as many as 15 squares? Which score was chosen then? The mode? Since you have 25 measures of cover in each plot why not just take the mean of the 25 scores rather than the mode? Then youd have a more continuous distribution of cover values rather than just your three original categories. Data analyses: There are still a few significant issues here that need addressing some of which will entail re-analysis, not just rewording. Some of your clarifications appear in the response but have not been transferred into the article where they need to be for all to see. Firstly, you seem to be confusing truncation and pooling (or binning) distances in Distance analysis. Several places including table/figure captions - refer to truncation by 5 metres when I think you mean that distances were pooled into 5 m interval classes? (e.g. figure 2 caption and elsewhere). You do state clearly that distances were truncated at 60m. Truncation can be done in the field where you ignore distant detections, and can also be done at the analysis stage to deal with outlying points. Can you state more clearly what you did? I think the results of the Distance analysis model selection should appear in Results, not Methods. Restrict the methods to describing how you selected the preferred model. You state that models were selected using AIC but still dont say what alternative models were considered. You still refer to densities per hectare. This doesnt make sense unless you mean that you worked out density for each hectare, which I dont think you do. You do really need to take on board my point about log transformation of count data. It is not the right way to analyse count data for many reasons. Have a look at OHara, R., Kotze, D. (2010). Do not log-transform count data Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 1 (2), 118-122 DOI: 10.1111/j.2041-210X.2010.00021.x If you dont have access to this paper then email me offline and I will send you a pdf. The way to do this is to use a generalized linear model which allows to you compare values which are not normally distributed. I would expect the distribution to be poisson. [S]imple linear regression - In your response you say you use multivariate tests but dont mention this in the article. You say Multivariates was the method, through which for instance were selected litter depth as a better predictor of pipit abundance than litter cover as we had stated in the results section. Im not sure you used a multivariate test as opposed to multiple univariate tests. (By the way, I should have said multiple regression as multivariate usually means something else). The species richness data still dont add to the paper. They are barely mentioned in the discussion so presumably of little consequence to your conclusions about the pipit. I suggest you omit those. Results: There were 17 encounters of Sokoke Pipit" - I overlooked this in the first submission but 17 is a very low number to derive a decent detection function from. You need to discuss this as it could have an impact on your density estimate. Can any other species be used to pool with the pipit to improve the detection function? Is there another species that is detected in a similar way? The plot of the function looks worrying with that big dip around 10 metres. It looks like you need to try pooling the distances up to 12 or 15 metres as the model looks a very poor fit at present. You can specify your own cut points in Distance to do this. Id find it hard to believe youd get a non-significant chi sq test of that model. You now say in the methods you did a chi sq test of clumpedness but dont explain what you mean or reference this test. Table 1 caption still refers to AIC Table 2 still refers to density per hectare. Its still the case that having said stems size classes were pooled due to low numbers, table 2 reports results of analysing them unpooled. In your response to my comment on Why cant Fig 4 be shown as scatter plot like Fig 3?" you say that In the discussion, we clearly showed that impact on Sokoke pipit due to habitat degradation was both a function of stem cutting as well as elephant tree removal. This needs to be clearly shown in the results not the discussion. As you havent collected or analysed data on elephant damage your comments about this need to be more circumspect. Incidentally I thought Banks et al 2010 dealt very specifically with elephant impacts on birds in ASF via habitat modification? Figure 5 has a typo For richness you report a value of 1/S and say that S is the reciprocal of the Simpson index. Which would mean that 1/S is the Simpsons index. Presumably S is the Simpson index value, not 1/S. Discussion: Musila densities in the intro are 0.7 for disturbed but 0.9 for disturbed in the discussion. Which is it? The 0.7 figure is remarkably similar to your overall figure which is very interesting. Restate your population estimate relative to Musilas. 