In his manuscript Pr R. Naftalin questions the role of apical GLUT2 in the regulation of intestinal sugar absorption. The manuscript comprises a view of earlier studies on absorption processes and proposes a theoretical model of glucose absorption in the small intestine. Since the main molecular features of sugar transporter in the small intestine have reached consensus, this timely manuscript opens a debate on the regulation of absorption processes including glucose transport, water flow and osmolarity issues. It is an ambitious project to describe a comprehensive model of intestinal sugar absorption considering the many different levels of regulation it involves. However in this manuscript, the kinetics of transporter expression in and out the enterocyte membranes in the control of absorption processes in sugar absorption were not taken into account in health and disease. The manuscript starts with a summary of 50 years of research effort in this area. In early days, glucose uptake in enterocytes comprised a Na-coupled electrogenic cotransport system mediated by SGLT1 clone by EM Wright 1 , and a diffusive component first identified by its resistance to phloridzin inhibition or Na free conditions and later identified as a GLUT family members 2 - 4 . The nature of an epithelial diffusive component was then debated and several mechanisms were proposed including paracellular flow and the presence of facilitated diffusion transport systems in the apical membrane i.e. GLUT5 for fructose and the low affinity transporter GLUT2 for glucose, galactose, fructose and mannose 2 , 5 . The exit of glucose from enterocytes was described to be mediated by GLUT2 in the basolateral membrane 5 - 7 . More recent discoveries showed that GLUT2 can also traffic to the apical membrane of enterocytes in humans and rodents 6 , 7 . GLUT2 trafficking in the apical membrane of epithelial cells has been demonstrated using various techniques including live imaging 8 - 10 . Pr. Naftalin questions the relevance of apical GLUT2 in glucose versus water absorption. Major concerns Pr Naftalin chose to focus on GLUT2-mediated osmoregulation but somehow neglected the dynamics control of sugar transporter densities in the apical and basolateral membranes of enterocytes. Although the mathematical modeling of this complex system is beyond my expertise, but may I suggest taking the time parameter as a key element in the control sugar absorption. Pr Naftalin reports that apical GLUT2 is not always seen, according to metabolic status of the mice or humans, an assertion that I can share with him. Indeed, apical GLUT2 is visible in animals consuming a sugar diet to increase GLUT2 expression and when glucose is abundant in the lumen. The transient presence of GLUT2 in apical membranes helps thus to understand how the intestine can absorb a large bolus of glucose that overcomes the absorption kinetic capacities of SGLT1. In pathologies altering insulin sensitivity, GLUT2 does not traffic anymore, remaining in apical membranes and increasing intestinal glucose absorption, worsening the status of subjects. In these conditions, apical GLUT2 can be readily observed. This rather simplifies the model of the transcellular transfer of glucose for apical membrane is permanently equipped with the GLUT2 transporter. The model should be amended to take these issues into account, in particular to include the varying levels of GLUT2 in the apical as well as basolateral membranes. This is also true for the SGLT1 transporter. Since transporters are also water channels 11 - 13 glucose transport will move water in the direction of the glucose gradient through the epithelial layer. Was that feature taken into account in the osmolarity model? Pr. Naftalin identifies conflicting data from my group on facilitative glucose transport, presumably by GLUT2, obtained using brush border membrane vesicles. I would like to give my interpretation of the data published at a time when transporters were characterized only by functional studies. My group identified a second transport system for glucose in addition to Na-cotransport using isolated brush border membrane vesicles, that is, in absence of interference of metabolism. The characteristics of this second system are very close to that identified later on for GLUT2 i.e. a glucose transport system with a low affinity (24 mM) and a high capacity 14 . This transport is inhibited by cytochalasin B like GLUT2. In the cited papers there is no mention of phloretin inhibition. I suppose that the conflict also come from the nutritional manipulation of guinea pig 15 comparing semi-starvation (25% of control food pair feeding experiment) to ad libitum feeding, we showed that the second transport functions was increased in absence of change in the contribution of the cotransport system. At that time, the physiological mechanism underlying the effect of semi-starvation was not analyzed further. Importantly, the effect of starvation was to increase the cotransport of glucose in absence of a contribution of system 2 as expected and confirmed in our studies in mice 16 . Therefore, it seems that are results are consistent over the different experimental analysis of sugar absorption and the role of GLUT2. The argument that nonspecific transport of glucose at rates that are correlated with net fluid transport 17 is probably inappropriate since passive diffusion was measured in vivo through the urinary recovery of ingested sugars that constitutes an evaluation of passive permeability of the whole intestine including colon. These permeability parameters can hardly be applied as valid for the diffusive component ex vivo in selected part of the small intestine. Different experimental settings for absorption measurements probably cause the discrepancies in the evaluations of transporter K m for GLUT2 and SGLT1. Based on vesicle work 18 the Km for the sodium cotransporter and for the facilitative transporter in the BBM of the jejunum is in a ratio of 2 to 25 mM respectively. In addition, studies in rat intestine of Pr Kellets group, show cooperativity of the kinetics of glucose transport via GLUT2 6 , 19 . Figures in the model should take a better affinity ratio between SGLT1 and GLUT2 mediated transport activities. Minor point: GLUT5 is not a glucose transporter in intestine but a fructose transporter. Although it can transport glucose when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Conclusion The title should include the words model, mathematics to stick to the content of the manuscript This manuscript describes the development of a mathematical model of sugar absorption in the intestine, a very challenging project indeed. The main merit is to put forward the many different levels of this complex and multi-compartment mechanism. The model is specially focusing on osmolarity issues in the absorptive process, this may be too far as rapid reading can trouble the reader understanding of the primary function of the transporters, which is primarily glucose transport. A model of this type should include the recent features of sugar absorption and include a kinetic description of events including the varying density of transporters in enterocyte plasma membranes. The role of GLUT2 in pathology should be described to show what are the enhanced and/or decreased elements of the model. Indeed, the absorption phase after a meal should be distinguished from the post absorptive time when the lumen is emptied of glucose. The relative affinities of transporters involved in transepithelial transport need to be corrected to stick to a ratio of affinities measured under the same experimental setting. References 1. Hediger MA, Coady MJ, Ikeda TS, Wright EM: Expression cloning and cDNA sequencing of the Na+/glucose co-transporter. Nature . 1987; 330 (6146): 379-381 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 2. Thorens B: Molecular and cellular physiology of GLUT-2, a high-Km facilitated diffusion glucose transporter. Int Rev Cytol . 1992; 137 : 209-238 PubMed Abstract 3. Joost HG, Bell GI, Best JD, Birnbaum MJ, et al.: Nomenclature of the GLUT/SLC2A family of sugar/polyol transport facilitators. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab . 2002; 282 (4): E974-E976 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 4. Bell GI, Kayano T, Buse JB, Burant CF, et al.: Molecular biology of mammalian glucose transporters. Diabetes Care . 1990; 13 (3): 198-208 PubMed Abstract 5. Cheeseman CI: GLUT2 is the transporter for fructose across the rat intestinal basolateral membrane. Gastroenterology . 1993; 105 (4): 1050-1056 PubMed Abstract 6. Kellett GL, Brot-Laroche E: Apical GLUT2: a major pathway of intestinal sugar absorption. Diabetes . 2005; 54 (10): 3056-3062 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 7. Kellett GL, Brot-Laroche E, Mace OJ, Leturgue A: Sugar absorption in the intestine: the role of GLUT2. Annu Rev Nutr . 2008; 28 : 35-54 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 8. Cohen M, Kitsberg D, Tsytkin S, Shulman M, et al.: Live imaging of GLUT2 glucose-dependent trafficking and its inhibition in polarized epithelial cysts. Open Biol . 2014; 4 (7). PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 9. Helliwell PA, Richardson M, Affleck J, Kellett GL: Regulation of GLUT5, GLUT2 and intestinal brush-border fructose absorption by the extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 mitogen-activated kinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase intracellular signalling pathways: implications for adaptation to diabetes. Biochem J . 2000; 350 (Pt 1): 163-169 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Reference Source 10. Kellett GL, Helliwell PA: The diffusive component of intestinal glucose absorption is mediated by the glucose-induced recruitment of GLUT2 to the brush-border membrane. Biochem J . 2000; 350 (Pt 1): 155-162 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Reference Source 11. Zeuthen T, Meinild AK, Loo DD, Wright EM, et al.: Isotonic transport by the Na+-glucose cotransporter SGLT1 from humans and rabbit. J Physiol . 2001; 531 (Pt 3): 631-644 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 12. Zeuthen T, Zeuthen E, Macaulay N: Water transport by GLUT2 expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. J Physiol . 2007; 579 (Pt 2): 345-361 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 13. Loo DD, Zeuthen T, Chandy G, Wright EM: Cotransport of water by the Na+/glucose cotransporter. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 1996; 93 (23): 13367-13370 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Reference Source 14. Brot-Laroche E, Serrano MA, Delhomme B, Alvarado F: Different temperature sensitivity and cation specificity of two distinct D-glucose/Na+ cotransport systems in the intestinal brush-border membrane. Ann N Y Acad Sci . 1985; 456 : 47-50 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 15. Brot-Laroche E, Dao MT, Alcalde AI, Delhomme B, et al.: Independent modulation by food supply of two distinct sodium-activated D-glucose transport systems in the guinea pig jejunal brush-border membrane. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 1988; 85 (17): 6370-6373 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Reference Source 16. Gouyon F, Caillaud L, Carriere V, Klein C, et al.: Simple-sugar meals target GLUT2 at enterocyte apical membranes to improve sugar absorption: a study in GLUT2-null mice. J Physiol . 2003; 552 (Pt 3): 823-832 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source 17. Bijlsma PB, Fihn BM, Sjoqvist A, Groot JA, et al.: Water absorption enhances the uptake of mannitol and decreases Cr-EDTA/mannitol permeability ratios in cat small intestine in situ. Scand J Gastroenterol . 2002; 37 (7): 799-806 PubMed Abstract 18. Brot-Laroche E, Serrano MA, Delhomme B, Alvarado F: Temperature sensitivity and substrate specificity of two distinct Na+-activated D-glucose transport systems in guinea pig jejunal brush border membrane vesicles. J Biol Chem . 1986; 261 (14): 6168-6176 PubMed Abstract | Reference Source 19. Helliwell PA, Kellett GL: he active and passive components of glucose absorption in rat jejunum under low and high perfusion stress. J Physiol . 2002; 544 (Pt 2): 579-589 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text | Reference Source Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Brot-Laroche E. Reviewer Report For: Does apical membrane GLUT2 have a role in intestinal glucose uptake? [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :304 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6342.r7456 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-304/v1#referee-response-7456 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 28 Jan 2015 Richard J Naftalin , King's College London, School of Medicine, London, UK 28 Jan 2015 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Dear Prof. Brot Laroche (Edith, EBL) Thank you for your comments with regard to my commentary about the role of apical GLUT2 in intestinal glucose absorption. Your comment on the time ... Continue reading Dear Prof. Brot Laroche (Edith, EBL) Thank you for your comments with regard to my commentary about the role of apical GLUT2 in intestinal glucose absorption. Your comment on the time scale of the changes raises an important issue which I did not fully consider in my initial treatment but clearly is worth addressing and I will do this now. The nice diagram (figure 5) in your paper (Ait-Omar et al. 2011) summarizes your view on the dynamics and routes of intestinal glucose absorption. The paracellular pathway is notably absent from this analysis. However as I have already mentioned in my answer to GK this is an important route in humans and has relevance to the question of the developing rates of intestinal glucose following acute luminal exposure to glucose during continuous infusion by duodenal gavage (Vanis et al. 2011). There are several components with widely differing equilibration rates relevant to quantitative description of luminal glucose absorption. First, the rate of delivery to the surface mucosa; this can be viewed as a rate of change of glucose concentration at a single point, or considered as an integral of the glucose content distributed over the entire absorptive surface. In considering the latter view, the more distal regions of small intestine will be exposed after the proximal and to a smaller overall load. This rarely considered point is treated with a simple approximation by Pappenheimer (Pappenheimer 1998). Obviously the rate of change of the integral glucose concentration along the entire length of small intestine will be much slower, than the rate as estimated at the proximal end. Link to figure S1 Following acute exposure to luminal glucose to 30mM, as modelled in Figure S1 A and B, luminal glucose concentration is simulated with an exponential rise (t ≈ 1-2min). This includes the mixing time within the lumen and diffusion through the unstirred layer to the enterocyte absorptive surface. Two other major rate processes determine net glucose absorption at the proximal end of the jejunum: the rate of glucose accumulation within the enterocyte cytosol; is difficult to measure in situ, but is assumed to be the main determinant of the rate of glucose absorption. The rate reported in isolated chicken intestinal epithelial cells (Kimmich 1968) has a t ≈ 1-2min. In vivo this rate likely to be faster as the force determining this rate is ultimately governed by Na-K ATPase activity which depends on the cell metabolic rate. The other secondary rates determining cytosolic glucose concentration are mainly via GLUT2, at both apical and baso-lateral membranes and the paracellular pathway. Kellett Helliwell (2000) indicate that apical GLUT2 activity increases as a double exponential, a small faster component ( t ≈ 1-2min) and a larger slow component (t ≈ 77 min). I have replaced this double exponential with a single rate constant (t = 12 min) to describe the glucose stimulated increase in GLUT2 density at the apical membrane. The signal for increased apical is initiated when cytosolic glucose concentration 25mM. This occurs ≈ 1 min after exposure to 30mM luminal glucose. The simulation shows the effects of three steady state apical GLUT2 densities (0, 1 and 2 nominal units) (Figure 2 A and B). In the absence of apical GLUT2 glucose flux via GLUT2 is zero (red lines). As the density of GLUT2 increases, following an initial delay, the glucose flux becomes increasing more negative, reaching a steady state within ≈ 20 min. This increasing rate of glucose efflux is caused entirely by the slow rise in apical GLUT2 density. (Lower three lines Figure S1A). Also of note in this simulation are the transient changes in paracellular glucose flux. As apical GLUT2 density increases, paracellular glucose flux also increases. This, ; as previously noted (figures 2 and 4), is a consequence of the reduced transcellular glucose flux that increases the glucose concentration gradient between the lumen and submucosal interstitial fluid . The rate constants resulting from the luminal mixing and cytosolic accumulation almost entirely mask any observable glucose influx via GLUT2 occurring during the early phase of intestinal absorption, as envisaged by (Ait-Omar et al 2011) when the cytosol and submucosal glucose luminal glucose. EBL “ Since transporters are also water channels 11 - 13 glucose transport will move water in the direction of the glucose gradient through the epithelial layer. Was that feature taken into account in the osmolarity model?” This question is extremely interesting- to me certainly -(see refs (50,51). It is evident that water is cotransported via a number of solute cotransporters particularly SGLT1 and GLUT2, and also NKCC(50). From other model simulations (not shown) it is apparent that water cotransport makes no substantial difference to the rates of net intestinal glucose or Na transport, but greatly affects glucose and Na-dependent water flows (not shown). Another noteworthy matter regarding water cotransport concerns the question as to how, when nectarivores imbibe more than three times their body weight of water per day with little salt content, they avoid becoming overhydrated. A solution appears to be that most of the water is retained within the intestinal lumen and is excreted via the cloaca, rather than kidneys (Karasov Cork 1994; Caviedes-Vidal et al. 2007; McWhorter et al. 2013). A likely explanation for fluid retention within the nectarivore gut lumen appears to be that the paracellular glucose diffusion component is maintained at high levels by the by very high metabolic rates and very high rates of splanchnic perfusion that maintain the splanchnic capillary glucose concentration. Absence of water cotransport by glucose flow via the paracellular route is likely to be due to its very low reflection coefficient at the tight junction in these animals. Thus the high paracellular glucose absorption in hummingbirds also retards glucose absorption via the transcellular route; thereby preventing excessive water absorption by cotransport. EBL “The argument that “nonspecific transport of glucose at rates that are correlated with net fluid transport” 17 is probably inappropriate since passive diffusion was measured in vivo through the urinary recovery of ingested sugars that constitutes an evaluation of passive permeability of the whole intestine including colon. These permeability parameters can hardly be applied as valid for the diffusive component ex vivo in selected part of the small intestine.” This is a question about which I have no expertise. However, it is probably inaccurate to say that the dual or multi sugar method does not give site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis, as has recently been shown (van Wijck et al. 2013). EBL “The relative affinities of transporters involved in transepithelial transport need to be corrected to stick to a ratio of affinities measured under the same experimental setting. ” In my answer to GK I explained that the assigned transporter parameters within the model relating to affinities are very similar to those obtained with isolated transporters tested in optimal conditions. The apparent operational affinities may differ greatly from those obtained in ideal conditions, as the concentrations of transported ligands cannot be held constant in the trans compartment(s) when the intestine is operating at near steady state absorption rates. EBL “ The role of GLUT2 in pathology should be described to show what are the enhanced and/or decreased elements of the model. Indeed, the absorption phase after a meal should be distinguished from the post absorptive time when the lumen is emptied of glucose”. I would like to extend the model to various pathological situations, particularly T2D and hepatic cirrhosis and fatty degeneration and their relationships with obesity. This would require extension of the model to include hepatic glucose uptake and circulation (Alexander et al. 2001; Alexander et al. 2002; Li et al. 2003). However, it is evident from the simple (relatively) analysis already outlined that the local densities of transporters are not the sole factor determining the amplitude of glucose concentration and its flux within the splanchnic vascular bed. Another very important factor that has not been given enough attention is the extent of apical transporter distribution within the intestine and how this affects glucose absorption. If it is assumed that the distribution of SGLT1 and GLUT2 normally covers 30-40% of the available small intestine area ( 4200 cm -2 ) (Pappenheimer 1998; Soergel et al. 1968) i.e. 1000-1500 cm -2 , then the maximal absorption rate for the entire intestine is approximately 1.0 mmole min -1 . When considered at the individual cell level unit, when luminal glucose concentration is high 30mM, increased apical membrane SGLT1densities will not greatly alter net transcellular absorption, as this becomes rate limited by GLUT2 densities in the basolateral membranes and GLUT2 reaches near saturation due to the high cytosolic glucose concentration. Additionally, as already explained, increased apical GLUT2 expression reduces net transcellular glucose flux when viewed from the local perspective i.e. cm -2 of intestine. The observed increase in the total area of intestinal SGLT1 distribution following enhanced carbohydrate intake becomes an important factor in total glucose absorption (Ferraris et al. 1992; Moran et al. 2010). The extent of intestinal SGLT1 and GLUT2 distribution increases both along the crypt-villus axis and along the small intestinal longitudinal axis with enrichment of carbohydrate intake. As previously discussed apical GLUT2 expression will spread the luminal glucose load over a wider area, so the increased GLUT2 expression along with SGLT1 could lead to higher rates integrated rate of glucose absorption. This, excessive glucose load, as has been noted already may lead to chronic liver damage. References Ait-Omar, A. et al., 2011. GLUT2 accumulation in enterocyte apical and intracellular membranes: a study in morbidly obese human subjects and ob/ob and high fat-fed mice. Diabetes , 60(10), pp.2598–607. Alexander, B., Cottam, H. Naftalin, R., 2001. Hepatic arterial perfusion regulates portal venous flow between hepatic sinusoids and intrahepatic shunts in the normal rat liver in vitro. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 443(2), pp.257–64. Alexander, B., Rogers, C. Naftalin, R., 2002. Hepatic arterial perfusion decreases intrahepatic shunting and maintains glucose uptake in the rat liver. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 444(1-2), pp.291–8. Caviedes-Vidal, E. et al., 2007. The digestive adaptation of flying vertebrates: high intestinal paracellular absorption compensates for smaller guts. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , 104(48), pp.19132–19137. Ferraris, R.P. et al., 1992. Effect of diet on glucose transporter site density along the intestinal crypt-villus axis. The American journal of physiology , 262, pp.G1060–G1068. Karasov, W.H. Cork, S.J., 1994. Glucose absorption by a nectarivorous bird: the passive pathway is paramount. The American journal of physiology , 267, pp.G18–G26. Kellett, G.L. Helliwell, P.A., 2000. glucose-induced recruitment of GLUT2 to the brush-border membrane. Biochem J , 162, pp.155–162. Kimmich, G.A., 1968. Active Sugar Accumulation by Isolated Intestinal Epithelial Cells . Biochemistry , 9, pp.3669–3677. Li, X. et al., 2003. Location and function of intrahepatic shunts in anaesthetised rats. Gut , 52(9), pp.1339–46. McWhorter, T.J. et al., 2013. Paracellular Absorption Is Relatively Low in the Herbivorous Egyptian Spiny-Tailed Lizard, Uromastyx aegyptia. PLoS ONE , 8(4). Moran, A.W. et al., 2010. Expression of Na+/glucose co-transporter 1 (SGLT1) in the intestine of piglets weaned to different concentrations of dietary carbohydrate. The British journal of nutrition , 104(5), pp.647–55. Pappenheimer, J.R., 1998. Scaling of dimensions of small intestines in non-ruminant eutherian mammals and its significance for absorptive mechanisms. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology - A Molecular and Integrative Physiology , 121, pp.45–58. Soergel, K.H., Whalen, G.E. Harris, J. a, 1968. Passive movement of water and sodium across the human small intestinal mucosa. Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985) , 24(1), pp.40–48. Vanis, L. et al., 2011. Effects of small intestinal glucose load on blood pressure, splanchnic blood flow, glycemia, and GLP-1 release in healthy older subjects. American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology , 300(5), pp.R1524–R1531. Van Wijck, K. et al., 2013. Novel multi-sugar assay for site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis: A randomized controlled crossover trial. Clinical Nutrition , 32(2), pp.245–251. Dear Prof. Brot Laroche (Edith, EBL) Thank you for your comments with regard to my commentary about the role of apical GLUT2 in intestinal glucose absorption. Your comment on the time scale of the changes raises an important issue which I did not fully consider in my initial treatment but clearly is worth addressing and I will do this now. The nice diagram (figure 5) in your paper (Ait-Omar et al. 2011) summarizes your view on the dynamics and routes of intestinal glucose absorption. The paracellular pathway is notably absent from this analysis. However as I have already mentioned in my answer to GK this is an important route in humans and has relevance to the question of the developing rates of intestinal glucose following acute luminal exposure to glucose during continuous infusion by duodenal gavage (Vanis et al. 2011). There are several components with widely differing equilibration rates relevant to quantitative description of luminal glucose absorption. First, the rate of delivery to the surface mucosa; this can be viewed as a rate of change of glucose concentration at a single point, or considered as an integral of the glucose content distributed over the entire absorptive surface. In considering the latter view, the more distal regions of small intestine will be exposed after the proximal and to a smaller overall load. This rarely considered point is treated with a simple approximation by Pappenheimer (Pappenheimer 1998). Obviously the rate of change of the integral glucose concentration along the entire length of small intestine will be much slower, than the rate as estimated at the proximal end. Link to figure S1 Following acute exposure to luminal glucose to 30mM, as modelled in Figure S1 A and B, luminal glucose concentration is simulated with an exponential rise (t ≈ 1-2min). This includes the mixing time within the lumen and diffusion through the unstirred layer to the enterocyte absorptive surface. Two other major rate processes determine net glucose absorption at the proximal end of the jejunum: the rate of glucose accumulation within the enterocyte cytosol; is difficult to measure in situ, but is assumed to be the main determinant of the rate of glucose absorption. The rate reported in isolated chicken intestinal epithelial cells (Kimmich 1968) has a t ≈ 1-2min. In vivo this rate likely to be faster as the force determining this rate is ultimately governed by Na-K ATPase activity which depends on the cell metabolic rate. The other secondary rates determining cytosolic glucose concentration are mainly via GLUT2, at both apical and baso-lateral membranes and the paracellular pathway. Kellett Helliwell (2000) indicate that apical GLUT2 activity increases as a double exponential, a small faster component ( t ≈ 1-2min) and a larger slow component (t ≈ 77 min). I have replaced this double exponential with a single rate constant (t = 12 min) to describe the glucose stimulated increase in GLUT2 density at the apical membrane. The signal for increased apical is initiated when cytosolic glucose concentration 25mM. This occurs ≈ 1 min after exposure to 30mM luminal glucose. The simulation shows the effects of three steady state apical GLUT2 densities (0, 1 and 2 nominal units) (Figure 2 A and B). In the absence of apical GLUT2 glucose flux via GLUT2 is zero (red lines). As the density of GLUT2 increases, following an initial delay, the glucose flux becomes increasing more negative, reaching a steady state within ≈ 20 min. This increasing rate of glucose efflux is caused entirely by the slow rise in apical GLUT2 density. (Lower three lines Figure S1A). Also of note in this simulation are the transient changes in paracellular glucose flux. As apical GLUT2 density increases, paracellular glucose flux also increases. This, ; as previously noted (figures 2 and 4), is a consequence of the reduced transcellular glucose flux that increases the glucose concentration gradient between the lumen and submucosal interstitial fluid . The rate constants resulting from the luminal mixing and cytosolic accumulation almost entirely mask any observable glucose influx via GLUT2 occurring during the early phase of intestinal absorption, as envisaged by (Ait-Omar et al 2011) when the cytosol and submucosal glucose luminal glucose. EBL “ Since transporters are also water channels 11 - 13 glucose transport will move water in the direction of the glucose gradient through the epithelial layer. Was that feature taken into account in the osmolarity model?” This question is extremely interesting- to me certainly -(see refs (50,51). It is evident that water is cotransported via a number of solute cotransporters particularly SGLT1 and GLUT2, and also NKCC(50). From other model simulations (not shown) it is apparent that water cotransport makes no substantial difference to the rates of net intestinal glucose or Na transport, but greatly affects glucose and Na-dependent water flows (not shown). Another noteworthy matter regarding water cotransport concerns the question as to how, when nectarivores imbibe more than three times their body weight of water per day with little salt content, they avoid becoming overhydrated. A solution appears to be that most of the water is retained within the intestinal lumen and is excreted via the cloaca, rather than kidneys (Karasov Cork 1994; Caviedes-Vidal et al. 2007; McWhorter et al. 2013). A likely explanation for fluid retention within the nectarivore gut lumen appears to be that the paracellular glucose diffusion component is maintained at high levels by the by very high metabolic rates and very high rates of splanchnic perfusion that maintain the splanchnic capillary glucose concentration. Absence of water cotransport by glucose flow via the paracellular route is likely to be due to its very low reflection coefficient at the tight junction in these animals. Thus the high paracellular glucose absorption in hummingbirds also retards glucose absorption via the transcellular route; thereby preventing excessive water absorption by cotransport. EBL “The argument that “nonspecific transport of glucose at rates that are correlated with net fluid transport” 17 is probably inappropriate since passive diffusion was measured in vivo through the urinary recovery of ingested sugars that constitutes an evaluation of passive permeability of the whole intestine including colon. These permeability parameters can hardly be applied as valid for the diffusive component ex vivo in selected part of the small intestine.” This is a question about which I have no expertise. However, it is probably inaccurate to say that the dual or multi sugar method does not give site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis, as has recently been shown (van Wijck et al. 2013). EBL “The relative affinities of transporters involved in transepithelial transport need to be corrected to stick to a ratio of affinities measured under the same experimental setting. ” In my answer to GK I explained that the assigned transporter parameters within the model relating to affinities are very similar to those obtained with isolated transporters tested in optimal conditions. The apparent operational affinities may differ greatly from those obtained in ideal conditions, as the concentrations of transported ligands cannot be held constant in the trans compartment(s) when the intestine is operating at near steady state absorption rates. EBL “ The role of GLUT2 in pathology should be described to show what are the enhanced and/or decreased elements of the model. Indeed, the absorption phase after a meal should be distinguished from the post absorptive time when the lumen is emptied of glucose”. I would like to extend the model to various pathological situations, particularly T2D and hepatic cirrhosis and fatty degeneration and their relationships with obesity. This would require extension of the model to include hepatic glucose uptake and circulation (Alexander et al. 2001; Alexander et al. 2002; Li et al. 2003). However, it is evident from the simple (relatively) analysis already outlined that the local densities of transporters are not the sole factor determining the amplitude of glucose concentration and its flux within the splanchnic vascular bed. Another very important factor that has not been given enough attention is the extent of apical transporter distribution within the intestine and how this affects glucose absorption. If it is assumed that the distribution of SGLT1 and GLUT2 normally covers 30-40% of the available small intestine area ( 4200 cm -2 ) (Pappenheimer 1998; Soergel et al. 1968) i.e. 1000-1500 cm -2 , then the maximal absorption rate for the entire intestine is approximately 1.0 mmole min -1 . When considered at the individual cell level unit, when luminal glucose concentration is high 30mM, increased apical membrane SGLT1densities will not greatly alter net transcellular absorption, as this becomes rate limited by GLUT2 densities in the basolateral membranes and GLUT2 reaches near saturation due to the high cytosolic glucose concentration. Additionally, as already explained, increased apical GLUT2 expression reduces net transcellular glucose flux when viewed from the local perspective i.e. cm -2 of intestine. The observed increase in the total area of intestinal SGLT1 distribution following enhanced carbohydrate intake becomes an important factor in total glucose absorption (Ferraris et al. 1992; Moran et al. 2010). The extent of intestinal SGLT1 and GLUT2 distribution increases both along the crypt-villus axis and along the small intestinal longitudinal axis with enrichment of carbohydrate intake. As previously discussed apical GLUT2 expression will spread the luminal glucose load over a wider area, so the increased GLUT2 expression along with SGLT1 could lead to higher rates integrated rate of glucose absorption. This, excessive glucose load, as has been noted already may lead to chronic liver damage. References Ait-Omar, A. et al., 2011. GLUT2 accumulation in enterocyte apical and intracellular membranes: a study in morbidly obese human subjects and ob/ob and high fat-fed mice. Diabetes , 60(10), pp.2598–607. Alexander, B., Cottam, H. Naftalin, R., 2001. Hepatic arterial perfusion regulates portal venous flow between hepatic sinusoids and intrahepatic shunts in the normal rat liver in vitro. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 443(2), pp.257–64. Alexander, B., Rogers, C. Naftalin, R., 2002. Hepatic arterial perfusion decreases intrahepatic shunting and maintains glucose uptake in the rat liver. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 444(1-2), pp.291–8. Caviedes-Vidal, E. et al., 2007. The digestive adaptation of flying vertebrates: high intestinal paracellular absorption compensates for smaller guts. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , 104(48), pp.19132–19137. Ferraris, R.P. et al., 1992. Effect of diet on glucose transporter site density along the intestinal crypt-villus axis. The American journal of physiology , 262, pp.G1060–G1068. Karasov, W.H. Cork, S.J., 1994. Glucose absorption by a nectarivorous bird: the passive pathway is paramount. The American journal of physiology , 267, pp.G18–G26. Kellett, G.L. Helliwell, P.A., 2000. glucose-induced recruitment of GLUT2 to the brush-border membrane. Biochem J , 162, pp.155–162. Kimmich, G.A., 1968. Active Sugar Accumulation by Isolated Intestinal Epithelial Cells . Biochemistry , 9, pp.3669–3677. Li, X. et al., 2003. Location and function of intrahepatic shunts in anaesthetised rats. Gut , 52(9), pp.1339–46. McWhorter, T.J. et al., 2013. Paracellular Absorption Is Relatively Low in the Herbivorous Egyptian Spiny-Tailed Lizard, Uromastyx aegyptia. PLoS ONE , 8(4). Moran, A.W. et al., 2010. Expression of Na+/glucose co-transporter 1 (SGLT1) in the intestine of piglets weaned to different concentrations of dietary carbohydrate. The British journal of nutrition , 104(5), pp.647–55. Pappenheimer, J.R., 1998. Scaling of dimensions of small intestines in non-ruminant eutherian mammals and its significance for absorptive mechanisms. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology - A Molecular and Integrative Physiology , 121, pp.45–58. Soergel, K.H., Whalen, G.E. Harris, J. a, 1968. Passive movement of water and sodium across the human small intestinal mucosa. Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985) , 24(1), pp.40–48. Vanis, L. et al., 2011. Effects of small intestinal glucose load on blood pressure, splanchnic blood flow, glycemia, and GLP-1 release in healthy older subjects. American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology , 300(5), pp.R1524–R1531. Van Wijck, K. et al., 2013. Novel multi-sugar assay for site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis: A randomized controlled crossover trial. Clinical Nutrition , 32(2), pp.245–251. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 28 Jan 2015 Richard J Naftalin , King's College London, School of Medicine, London, UK 28 Jan 2015 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Dear Prof. Brot Laroche (Edith, EBL) Thank you for your comments with regard to my commentary about the role of apical GLUT2 in intestinal glucose absorption. Your comment on the time ... Continue reading Dear Prof. Brot Laroche (Edith, EBL) Thank you for your comments with regard to my commentary about the role of apical GLUT2 in intestinal glucose absorption. Your comment on the time scale of the changes raises an important issue which I did not fully consider in my initial treatment but clearly is worth addressing and I will do this now. The nice diagram (figure 5) in your paper (Ait-Omar et al. 2011) summarizes your view on the dynamics and routes of intestinal glucose absorption. The paracellular pathway is notably absent from this analysis. However as I have already mentioned in my answer to GK this is an important route in humans and has relevance to the question of the developing rates of intestinal glucose following acute luminal exposure to glucose during continuous infusion by duodenal gavage (Vanis et al. 2011). There are several components with widely differing equilibration rates relevant to quantitative description of luminal glucose absorption. First, the rate of delivery to the surface mucosa; this can be viewed as a rate of change of glucose concentration at a single point, or considered as an integral of the glucose content distributed over the entire absorptive surface. In considering the latter view, the more distal regions of small intestine will be exposed after the proximal and to a smaller overall load. This rarely considered point is treated with a simple approximation by Pappenheimer (Pappenheimer 1998). Obviously the rate of change of the integral glucose concentration along the entire length of small intestine will be much slower, than the rate as estimated at the proximal end. Link to figure S1 Following acute exposure to luminal glucose to 30mM, as modelled in Figure S1 A and B, luminal glucose concentration is simulated with an exponential rise (t ≈ 1-2min). This includes the mixing time within the lumen and diffusion through the unstirred layer to the enterocyte absorptive surface. Two other major rate processes determine net glucose absorption at the proximal end of the jejunum: the rate of glucose accumulation within the enterocyte cytosol; is difficult to measure in situ, but is assumed to be the main determinant of the rate of glucose absorption. The rate reported in isolated chicken intestinal epithelial cells (Kimmich 1968) has a t ≈ 1-2min. In vivo this rate likely to be faster as the force determining this rate is ultimately governed by Na-K ATPase activity which depends on the cell metabolic rate. The other secondary rates determining cytosolic glucose concentration are mainly via GLUT2, at both apical and baso-lateral membranes and the paracellular pathway. Kellett Helliwell (2000) indicate that apical GLUT2 activity increases as a double exponential, a small faster component ( t ≈ 1-2min) and a larger slow component (t ≈ 77 min). I have replaced this double exponential with a single rate constant (t = 12 min) to describe the glucose stimulated increase in GLUT2 density at the apical membrane. The signal for increased apical is initiated when cytosolic glucose concentration 25mM. This occurs ≈ 1 min after exposure to 30mM luminal glucose. The simulation shows the effects of three steady state apical GLUT2 densities (0, 1 and 2 nominal units) (Figure 2 A and B). In the absence of apical GLUT2 glucose flux via GLUT2 is zero (red lines). As the density of GLUT2 increases, following an initial delay, the glucose flux becomes increasing more negative, reaching a steady state within ≈ 20 min. This increasing rate of glucose efflux is caused entirely by the slow rise in apical GLUT2 density. (Lower three lines Figure S1A). Also of note in this simulation are the transient changes in paracellular glucose flux. As apical GLUT2 density increases, paracellular glucose flux also increases. This, ; as previously noted (figures 2 and 4), is a consequence of the reduced transcellular glucose flux that increases the glucose concentration gradient between the lumen and submucosal interstitial fluid . The rate constants resulting from the luminal mixing and cytosolic accumulation almost entirely mask any observable glucose influx via GLUT2 occurring during the early phase of intestinal absorption, as envisaged by (Ait-Omar et al 2011) when the cytosol and submucosal glucose luminal glucose. EBL “ Since transporters are also water channels 11 - 13 glucose transport will move water in the direction of the glucose gradient through the epithelial layer. Was that feature taken into account in the osmolarity model?” This question is extremely interesting- to me certainly -(see refs (50,51). It is evident that water is cotransported via a number of solute cotransporters particularly SGLT1 and GLUT2, and also NKCC(50). From other model simulations (not shown) it is apparent that water cotransport makes no substantial difference to the rates of net intestinal glucose or Na transport, but greatly affects glucose and Na-dependent water flows (not shown). Another noteworthy matter regarding water cotransport concerns the question as to how, when nectarivores imbibe more than three times their body weight of water per day with little salt content, they avoid becoming overhydrated. A solution appears to be that most of the water is retained within the intestinal lumen and is excreted via the cloaca, rather than kidneys (Karasov Cork 1994; Caviedes-Vidal et al. 2007; McWhorter et al. 2013). A likely explanation for fluid retention within the nectarivore gut lumen appears to be that the paracellular glucose diffusion component is maintained at high levels by the by very high metabolic rates and very high rates of splanchnic perfusion that maintain the splanchnic capillary glucose concentration. Absence of water cotransport by glucose flow via the paracellular route is likely to be due to its very low reflection coefficient at the tight junction in these animals. Thus the high paracellular glucose absorption in hummingbirds also retards glucose absorption via the transcellular route; thereby preventing excessive water absorption by cotransport. EBL “The argument that “nonspecific transport of glucose at rates that are correlated with net fluid transport” 17 is probably inappropriate since passive diffusion was measured in vivo through the urinary recovery of ingested sugars that constitutes an evaluation of passive permeability of the whole intestine including colon. These permeability parameters can hardly be applied as valid for the diffusive component ex vivo in selected part of the small intestine.” This is a question about which I have no expertise. However, it is probably inaccurate to say that the dual or multi sugar method does not give site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis, as has recently been shown (van Wijck et al. 2013). EBL “The relative affinities of transporters involved in transepithelial transport need to be corrected to stick to a ratio of affinities measured under the same experimental setting. ” In my answer to GK I explained that the assigned transporter parameters within the model relating to affinities are very similar to those obtained with isolated transporters tested in optimal conditions. The apparent operational affinities may differ greatly from those obtained in ideal conditions, as the concentrations of transported ligands cannot be held constant in the trans compartment(s) when the intestine is operating at near steady state absorption rates. EBL “ The role of GLUT2 in pathology should be described to show what are the enhanced and/or decreased elements of the model. Indeed, the absorption phase after a meal should be distinguished from the post absorptive time when the lumen is emptied of glucose”. I would like to extend the model to various pathological situations, particularly T2D and hepatic cirrhosis and fatty degeneration and their relationships with obesity. This would require extension of the model to include hepatic glucose uptake and circulation (Alexander et al. 2001; Alexander et al. 2002; Li et al. 2003). However, it is evident from the simple (relatively) analysis already outlined that the local densities of transporters are not the sole factor determining the amplitude of glucose concentration and its flux within the splanchnic vascular bed. Another very important factor that has not been given enough attention is the extent of apical transporter distribution within the intestine and how this affects glucose absorption. If it is assumed that the distribution of SGLT1 and GLUT2 normally covers 30-40% of the available small intestine area ( 4200 cm -2 ) (Pappenheimer 1998; Soergel et al. 1968) i.e. 1000-1500 cm -2 , then the maximal absorption rate for the entire intestine is approximately 1.0 mmole min -1 . When considered at the individual cell level unit, when luminal glucose concentration is high 30mM, increased apical membrane SGLT1densities will not greatly alter net transcellular absorption, as this becomes rate limited by GLUT2 densities in the basolateral membranes and GLUT2 reaches near saturation due to the high cytosolic glucose concentration. Additionally, as already explained, increased apical GLUT2 expression reduces net transcellular glucose flux when viewed from the local perspective i.e. cm -2 of intestine. The observed increase in the total area of intestinal SGLT1 distribution following enhanced carbohydrate intake becomes an important factor in total glucose absorption (Ferraris et al. 1992; Moran et al. 2010). The extent of intestinal SGLT1 and GLUT2 distribution increases both along the crypt-villus axis and along the small intestinal longitudinal axis with enrichment of carbohydrate intake. As previously discussed apical GLUT2 expression will spread the luminal glucose load over a wider area, so the increased GLUT2 expression along with SGLT1 could lead to higher rates integrated rate of glucose absorption. This, excessive glucose load, as has been noted already may lead to chronic liver damage. References Ait-Omar, A. et al., 2011. GLUT2 accumulation in enterocyte apical and intracellular membranes: a study in morbidly obese human subjects and ob/ob and high fat-fed mice. Diabetes , 60(10), pp.2598–607. Alexander, B., Cottam, H. Naftalin, R., 2001. Hepatic arterial perfusion regulates portal venous flow between hepatic sinusoids and intrahepatic shunts in the normal rat liver in vitro. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 443(2), pp.257–64. Alexander, B., Rogers, C. Naftalin, R., 2002. Hepatic arterial perfusion decreases intrahepatic shunting and maintains glucose uptake in the rat liver. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 444(1-2), pp.291–8. Caviedes-Vidal, E. et al., 2007. The digestive adaptation of flying vertebrates: high intestinal paracellular absorption compensates for smaller guts. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , 104(48), pp.19132–19137. Ferraris, R.P. et al., 1992. Effect of diet on glucose transporter site density along the intestinal crypt-villus axis. The American journal of physiology , 262, pp.G1060–G1068. Karasov, W.H. Cork, S.J., 1994. Glucose absorption by a nectarivorous bird: the passive pathway is paramount. The American journal of physiology , 267, pp.G18–G26. Kellett, G.L. Helliwell, P.A., 2000. glucose-induced recruitment of GLUT2 to the brush-border membrane. Biochem J , 162, pp.155–162. Kimmich, G.A., 1968. Active Sugar Accumulation by Isolated Intestinal Epithelial Cells . Biochemistry , 9, pp.3669–3677. Li, X. et al., 2003. Location and function of intrahepatic shunts in anaesthetised rats. Gut , 52(9), pp.1339–46. McWhorter, T.J. et al., 2013. Paracellular Absorption Is Relatively Low in the Herbivorous Egyptian Spiny-Tailed Lizard, Uromastyx aegyptia. PLoS ONE , 8(4). Moran, A.W. et al., 2010. Expression of Na+/glucose co-transporter 1 (SGLT1) in the intestine of piglets weaned to different concentrations of dietary carbohydrate. The British journal of nutrition , 104(5), pp.647–55. Pappenheimer, J.R., 1998. Scaling of dimensions of small intestines in non-ruminant eutherian mammals and its significance for absorptive mechanisms. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology - A Molecular and Integrative Physiology , 121, pp.45–58. Soergel, K.H., Whalen, G.E. Harris, J. a, 1968. Passive movement of water and sodium across the human small intestinal mucosa. Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985) , 24(1), pp.40–48. Vanis, L. et al., 2011. Effects of small intestinal glucose load on blood pressure, splanchnic blood flow, glycemia, and GLP-1 release in healthy older subjects. American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology , 300(5), pp.R1524–R1531. Van Wijck, K. et al., 2013. Novel multi-sugar assay for site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis: A randomized controlled crossover trial. Clinical Nutrition , 32(2), pp.245–251. Dear Prof. Brot Laroche (Edith, EBL) Thank you for your comments with regard to my commentary about the role of apical GLUT2 in intestinal glucose absorption. Your comment on the time scale of the changes raises an important issue which I did not fully consider in my initial treatment but clearly is worth addressing and I will do this now. The nice diagram (figure 5) in your paper (Ait-Omar et al. 2011) summarizes your view on the dynamics and routes of intestinal glucose absorption. The paracellular pathway is notably absent from this analysis. However as I have already mentioned in my answer to GK this is an important route in humans and has relevance to the question of the developing rates of intestinal glucose following acute luminal exposure to glucose during continuous infusion by duodenal gavage (Vanis et al. 2011). There are several components with widely differing equilibration rates relevant to quantitative description of luminal glucose absorption. First, the rate of delivery to the surface mucosa; this can be viewed as a rate of change of glucose concentration at a single point, or considered as an integral of the glucose content distributed over the entire absorptive surface. In considering the latter view, the more distal regions of small intestine will be exposed after the proximal and to a smaller overall load. This rarely considered point is treated with a simple approximation by Pappenheimer (Pappenheimer 1998). Obviously the rate of change of the integral glucose concentration along the entire length of small intestine will be much slower, than the rate as estimated at the proximal end. Link to figure S1 Following acute exposure to luminal glucose to 30mM, as modelled in Figure S1 A and B, luminal glucose concentration is simulated with an exponential rise (t ≈ 1-2min). This includes the mixing time within the lumen and diffusion through the unstirred layer to the enterocyte absorptive surface. Two other major rate processes determine net glucose absorption at the proximal end of the jejunum: the rate of glucose accumulation within the enterocyte cytosol; is difficult to measure in situ, but is assumed to be the main determinant of the rate of glucose absorption. The rate reported in isolated chicken intestinal epithelial cells (Kimmich 1968) has a t ≈ 1-2min. In vivo this rate likely to be faster as the force determining this rate is ultimately governed by Na-K ATPase activity which depends on the cell metabolic rate. The other secondary rates determining cytosolic glucose concentration are mainly via GLUT2, at both apical and baso-lateral membranes and the paracellular pathway. Kellett Helliwell (2000) indicate that apical GLUT2 activity increases as a double exponential, a small faster component ( t ≈ 1-2min) and a larger slow component (t ≈ 77 min). I have replaced this double exponential with a single rate constant (t = 12 min) to describe the glucose stimulated increase in GLUT2 density at the apical membrane. The signal for increased apical is initiated when cytosolic glucose concentration 25mM. This occurs ≈ 1 min after exposure to 30mM luminal glucose. The simulation shows the effects of three steady state apical GLUT2 densities (0, 1 and 2 nominal units) (Figure 2 A and B). In the absence of apical GLUT2 glucose flux via GLUT2 is zero (red lines). As the density of GLUT2 increases, following an initial delay, the glucose flux becomes increasing more negative, reaching a steady state within ≈ 20 min. This increasing rate of glucose efflux is caused entirely by the slow rise in apical GLUT2 density. (Lower three lines Figure S1A). Also of note in this simulation are the transient changes in paracellular glucose flux. As apical GLUT2 density increases, paracellular glucose flux also increases. This, ; as previously noted (figures 2 and 4), is a consequence of the reduced transcellular glucose flux that increases the glucose concentration gradient between the lumen and submucosal interstitial fluid . The rate constants resulting from the luminal mixing and cytosolic accumulation almost entirely mask any observable glucose influx via GLUT2 occurring during the early phase of intestinal absorption, as envisaged by (Ait-Omar et al 2011) when the cytosol and submucosal glucose luminal glucose. EBL “ Since transporters are also water channels 11 - 13 glucose transport will move water in the direction of the glucose gradient through the epithelial layer. Was that feature taken into account in the osmolarity model?” This question is extremely interesting- to me certainly -(see refs (50,51). It is evident that water is cotransported via a number of solute cotransporters particularly SGLT1 and GLUT2, and also NKCC(50). From other model simulations (not shown) it is apparent that water cotransport makes no substantial difference to the rates of net intestinal glucose or Na transport, but greatly affects glucose and Na-dependent water flows (not shown). Another noteworthy matter regarding water cotransport concerns the question as to how, when nectarivores imbibe more than three times their body weight of water per day with little salt content, they avoid becoming overhydrated. A solution appears to be that most of the water is retained within the intestinal lumen and is excreted via the cloaca, rather than kidneys (Karasov Cork 1994; Caviedes-Vidal et al. 2007; McWhorter et al. 2013). A likely explanation for fluid retention within the nectarivore gut lumen appears to be that the paracellular glucose diffusion component is maintained at high levels by the by very high metabolic rates and very high rates of splanchnic perfusion that maintain the splanchnic capillary glucose concentration. Absence of water cotransport by glucose flow via the paracellular route is likely to be due to its very low reflection coefficient at the tight junction in these animals. Thus the high paracellular glucose absorption in hummingbirds also retards glucose absorption via the transcellular route; thereby preventing excessive water absorption by cotransport. EBL “The argument that “nonspecific transport of glucose at rates that are correlated with net fluid transport” 17 is probably inappropriate since passive diffusion was measured in vivo through the urinary recovery of ingested sugars that constitutes an evaluation of passive permeability of the whole intestine including colon. These permeability parameters can hardly be applied as valid for the diffusive component ex vivo in selected part of the small intestine.” This is a question about which I have no expertise. However, it is probably inaccurate to say that the dual or multi sugar method does not give site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis, as has recently been shown (van Wijck et al. 2013). EBL “The relative affinities of transporters involved in transepithelial transport need to be corrected to stick to a ratio of affinities measured under the same experimental setting. ” In my answer to GK I explained that the assigned transporter parameters within the model relating to affinities are very similar to those obtained with isolated transporters tested in optimal conditions. The apparent operational affinities may differ greatly from those obtained in ideal conditions, as the concentrations of transported ligands cannot be held constant in the trans compartment(s) when the intestine is operating at near steady state absorption rates. EBL “ The role of GLUT2 in pathology should be described to show what are the enhanced and/or decreased elements of the model. Indeed, the absorption phase after a meal should be distinguished from the post absorptive time when the lumen is emptied of glucose”. I would like to extend the model to various pathological situations, particularly T2D and hepatic cirrhosis and fatty degeneration and their relationships with obesity. This would require extension of the model to include hepatic glucose uptake and circulation (Alexander et al. 2001; Alexander et al. 2002; Li et al. 2003). However, it is evident from the simple (relatively) analysis already outlined that the local densities of transporters are not the sole factor determining the amplitude of glucose concentration and its flux within the splanchnic vascular bed. Another very important factor that has not been given enough attention is the extent of apical transporter distribution within the intestine and how this affects glucose absorption. If it is assumed that the distribution of SGLT1 and GLUT2 normally covers 30-40% of the available small intestine area ( 4200 cm -2 ) (Pappenheimer 1998; Soergel et al. 1968) i.e. 1000-1500 cm -2 , then the maximal absorption rate for the entire intestine is approximately 1.0 mmole min -1 . When considered at the individual cell level unit, when luminal glucose concentration is high 30mM, increased apical membrane SGLT1densities will not greatly alter net transcellular absorption, as this becomes rate limited by GLUT2 densities in the basolateral membranes and GLUT2 reaches near saturation due to the high cytosolic glucose concentration. Additionally, as already explained, increased apical GLUT2 expression reduces net transcellular glucose flux when viewed from the local perspective i.e. cm -2 of intestine. The observed increase in the total area of intestinal SGLT1 distribution following enhanced carbohydrate intake becomes an important factor in total glucose absorption (Ferraris et al. 1992; Moran et al. 2010). The extent of intestinal SGLT1 and GLUT2 distribution increases both along the crypt-villus axis and along the small intestinal longitudinal axis with enrichment of carbohydrate intake. As previously discussed apical GLUT2 expression will spread the luminal glucose load over a wider area, so the increased GLUT2 expression along with SGLT1 could lead to higher rates integrated rate of glucose absorption. This, excessive glucose load, as has been noted already may lead to chronic liver damage. References Ait-Omar, A. et al., 2011. GLUT2 accumulation in enterocyte apical and intracellular membranes: a study in morbidly obese human subjects and ob/ob and high fat-fed mice. Diabetes , 60(10), pp.2598–607. Alexander, B., Cottam, H. Naftalin, R., 2001. Hepatic arterial perfusion regulates portal venous flow between hepatic sinusoids and intrahepatic shunts in the normal rat liver in vitro. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 443(2), pp.257–64. Alexander, B., Rogers, C. Naftalin, R., 2002. Hepatic arterial perfusion decreases intrahepatic shunting and maintains glucose uptake in the rat liver. Pflgers Archiv : European journal of physiology , 444(1-2), pp.291–8. Caviedes-Vidal, E. et al., 2007. The digestive adaptation of flying vertebrates: high intestinal paracellular absorption compensates for smaller guts. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America , 104(48), pp.19132–19137. Ferraris, R.P. et al., 1992. Effect of diet on glucose transporter site density along the intestinal crypt-villus axis. The American journal of physiology , 262, pp.G1060–G1068. Karasov, W.H. Cork, S.J., 1994. Glucose absorption by a nectarivorous bird: the passive pathway is paramount. The American journal of physiology , 267, pp.G18–G26. Kellett, G.L. Helliwell, P.A., 2000. glucose-induced recruitment of GLUT2 to the brush-border membrane. Biochem J , 162, pp.155–162. Kimmich, G.A., 1968. Active Sugar Accumulation by Isolated Intestinal Epithelial Cells . Biochemistry , 9, pp.3669–3677. Li, X. et al., 2003. Location and function of intrahepatic shunts in anaesthetised rats. Gut , 52(9), pp.1339–46. McWhorter, T.J. et al., 2013. Paracellular Absorption Is Relatively Low in the Herbivorous Egyptian Spiny-Tailed Lizard, Uromastyx aegyptia. PLoS ONE , 8(4). Moran, A.W. et al., 2010. Expression of Na+/glucose co-transporter 1 (SGLT1) in the intestine of piglets weaned to different concentrations of dietary carbohydrate. The British journal of nutrition , 104(5), pp.647–55. Pappenheimer, J.R., 1998. Scaling of dimensions of small intestines in non-ruminant eutherian mammals and its significance for absorptive mechanisms. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology - A Molecular and Integrative Physiology , 121, pp.45–58. Soergel, K.H., Whalen, G.E. Harris, J. a, 1968. Passive movement of water and sodium across the human small intestinal mucosa. Journal of applied physiology (Bethesda, Md. : 1985) , 24(1), pp.40–48. Vanis, L. et al., 2011. Effects of small intestinal glucose load on blood pressure, splanchnic blood flow, glycemia, and GLP-1 release in healthy older subjects. American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology , 300(5), pp.R1524–R1531. Van Wijck, K. et al., 2013. Novel multi-sugar assay for site-specific gastrointestinal permeability analysis: A randomized controlled crossover trial. Clinical Nutrition , 32(2), pp.245–251. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Daniel H. Reviewer Report For: Does apical membrane GLUT2 have a role in intestinal glucose uptake? [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :304 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6342.r7045 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-304/v1#referee-response-7045 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 20 Jan 2015 Hannelore Daniel , Center of Life and Food Sciences, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.6342.r7045 This paper by R. Naftalin addresses a facet of gastrointestinal physiology that has for decades caused highly controversial discussions amongst the experts. Carbohydrates in our diet represent the quantitatively most important class of nutrients and a large fraction of our ... Continue reading READ ALL 