This paper continues a series of investigations by Prof Frank into general explanations for the presence of common patterns in the world. Previous work has examined underlying reasons for common probability distributions across a range of types of observation and common size distributions. Here, Steve Frank turns to rank abundance measures. There are two central pieces to the analysis presented in the paper. The first derives from E.T. Jaynes' work on the information content of probability distributions and the derivation of probability distributions by considering information constraints on the observed quantity. The second is drawn from Frank's own work (with Eric Smith) on the invariance of the emergent probability distributions to certain scalings of variables, in particular the affine transformation. The same invariance to affine transformation lies at the heart of Frank's previous analyses. For this reviewer, the importance of the paper lies not so much in the technical results (which flow directly as entailments of the algebra given the premises established in equation 1, and the arguments preceding equation 2, but more in the wider issues it raises about observation in general. In particular, as with the previous papers on related subjects which Frank has written, this paper gives a principled way to derive observed, generic, relationships about rank and abundance that are independent of the physical details of the system being investigated. One possible response to this kind of result is to see it as a consequence of the way that the argument is set up in the premises but I think the way the various parameters are connected with physical properties (albeit it in a generic and hence somewhat abstract way) shows that there is something more fundamental at work here than mathematical slight of hand. Imagine, for example, how strange (to us, here and now) the universe would seem if the informational constraints on probability distributions were not invariant to affine transformation; if, for example, the Poisson distribution described random counts of small numbers of small things, but not small numbers of large things. So, in the same way that understanding what it means for small random counts to follow a Poisson distribution adds to understanding a set of data, it is not a trivial thing (nor a piece of pure phenomenology) for researchers to be able use the general relationship that Frank has derived here, to understand observed rank abundance relationships in terms of the scale at which underlying processes expressing measurable phenomena. In a paper written in such a telegraphic style, Frank does a decent job of connecting the derived relationships with physical examples, but I suspect that anyone who hasn't been following the development of this area of work over the preceding publications, or who isn't familiar with the connections between information and probability, will find the paper concise to the point of abruptness. I hope that Frank plans a synthesis and review of the specific examples that have been published at some later date; although it could be argued that the general synthesis was laid out in earlier papers and the more recent work is unpacking specific case studies. 