I am pleased to have the opportunity to comment on this interesting article that has important implications for clinical practice. I am a statistician and will restrict my comments almost entirely to the statistical analysis. Comments on the Statistical Analysis I find that the statistical analysis presented to be sound and appropriate. I very much appreciate the use of techniques from functional data analysis to extract understanding from these data. I was curious as to how the smoothing parameter lambda was selected. I understand that you have performed a thorough study to document the robustness of the results to the choice of lambda. I would, however, like to see a very brief discussion about whether lambda could be selected automatically, perhaps working in the Bayesian framework. Implementing and performing such an analysis is clearly beyond the scope of this paper, and I am not asking for it to be done. I did not understand from the paragraph beginning "We used the multivariate paired Hotelling's T^2 test..." on page 4 to what S1 and S2 refer. I think that S1 and S2 should be defined in the previous paragraph. For the test H_0: mu_1 = mu_2 = mu_3, I think that H_1 is not precisely stated. I would state it simply as H_1: not H_0. I have no objection to you performing Hotelling's T^2 tests. I was, however, wondering whether there were specific tests for use with functional data. Perhaps your tests are specific to functional data. If they are not, a little discussion of this issue would be helpful. On page 6 you state that "The clustering algorithm puts each woman in one of two groups, so to divide them in the best way". In what way is it best please? It is not quite clear to me from Figure 2, how you would choose the number of groups/clusters. I was wondering whether this could be done in some automatic way. Again, implementing and performing such automation is beyond the scope of this paper, but a brief discussion about it would be helpful and interesting. I was left a little perplexed by the paragraph beginning "It was evident that the principal component analysis...". I think that that paragraph needs to be revised with perhaps some more detail. There could be a relationship here with the comments above about automating certain choices. Further discussion would be valuable. General Comment In the Abstract, there should be no comma between "observation" and "can". I do not think that the Aims read like aims. I would like to see these re-written and then better referred to later in the article in a way that allows me to see that they have been satisfied. I think that it would be helpful if you were to remind us about the meaning of the colours on page 7. 