The present article is a short application note on an open-source phylogenetic software tool, phylomand. The article is very concise and can serve well as a reference for a tool under ongoing development. However, I believe that in its present form, it does not contain all necessary information to (i) fully describe the presented software and to therefore (ii) allow an informed evaluation of the tool. From the article itself, it remains relatively unclear what the individual programs in phylommand actually do. The pointer to the GitHub page, and the documentation included therein, are quite helpful. As a standalone, however, the article is quite generic and does not provide sufficient answers to the basic questions which (I think) should be addressed in a tool description: (i) what does the tool do? (ii) how does it do it (implementation details)? (iii) why is this important? (iv) how does it compare to other solutions? With regard to the first point, the second paragraph of the article does contain a list of things that phylommand can do, but it does not provide context. I believe that even including a freeze of the GitHub wiki and tool documentation as a Supplement would help the reader to make more sense of the software's functionalities. Implementation details are provided; although they are quite generic, the necessary dependencies for compilation and additional functionalities (parallelization and and SVG viewer) are pointed out. The article does not really provide information on why phylommand is an important addition to the list of existing tools, or how it fills an (important) gap in the present toolbox, other than stating that it can be integrated into software pipelines. In particular, it remains unclear why the implementation of exactly these functions (out of the wealth of possible operations on phylogenies) provides an added value over existing solutions. Clearly, phylommand is not a full-fledged standalone phylogenetic software suite, but it provides (efficient) solutions to specific problems; this could be carved out more clearly in the text. Relating to this, the article in general does not compare phylommand to existing tools, neither conceptually, nor in terms of performance. Newick utilities are mentioned several times, but there is such a wealth of phylogenetic software available, and it remains unclear how phylommand positions itself in that list. Perl-based, R-based and Python-based solutions are mentioned in a half-sentence, but from the article alone, it remains unclear what the "niche" of phylommand among the many existing tools can be. Likewise, I believe that a full assessment of the tool's performance requires more benchmarks than a speed test of one individual function (tree rooting) relative to one competitor. For the core implemented functions, it would be great to get at least some speed and memory benchmarks (relative to a limited set of competing tools). I was able to download and run phylommand on my OS X system. In general, I commend the author for developing and providing a potentially very useful tool for the community. However, as detailed above, I believe that the present article needs more information to act as a stand-alone reference.