The present study of Karapetyan indicates that dsRNAs are detected in tissues and cells infected with the scrapie agent. For this purpose Karapetyan used the J2 monoclonal antibody that recognizes dsRNAs and tested this antibody in different experimental conditions i.e. Huh7.5 hepatocyte cells in the presence (positive control) or absence (negative control) of HCV infection. Similarly, he tested the presence of dsRNA on the Neuroblastoma N2a PK1 cellular model infected or not by the RML scrapie agent strain, and finally he investigated if dsRNAs can be detected in the brain of scrapie infected animals. As expected, the data indicated a positive signal in HCV infected cells, whereas no signal was observed in non-infected cells. The panel for Huh7.5 non-infected cells is not depicted. Additional immunofluorescence data or an immunoblotting data confirming the HCV replication in the infected cells should be added. Similarly, the N2a PK1 cells like RML infected PK1 cells were found to be positive for dsRNAs, indicating that no difference is detected between scrapie infected and non-infected cells. It should be noted that my group previously found that N2a cells replicate a murine leukemia endogenous retrovirus (Neuroblastoma endogenous retrovirus) that does not modulate scrapie replication and release ( Alais et al. 2008 ). We also found that these cells express high levels of Intra A cisternal Particles (IAP) endogenous retroviruses and that IAP-Gag proteins co-localize and co-fractionate with PrP ( Alais et al . 2008 ). Similar data was also obtained by the group of Laura Manuelidis ( Manuelidis et al. 1995 ) . All these endogenous retroviruses produce structured dsRNAs that could be detected by this antibody. So in this context, the detection of dsRNA in these cells are expected. It should be considered that the persistence of a signal in scrapie infected cells after RNAse treatment can be due to the interaction of of PrPSc with these viral RNAs. The last piece of data indicates that a dsRNA signal is detected in brain of infected mouse whereas no signal was observed in non-infected control mouse. This result is interesting and should be extensively investigated. If we think in term of virology, many hypotheses can be proposed for this. My group and others have found that PrPC displays some antiviral properties. We could imagine that the decrease of PrPC could favor the expression and replication of endogenous viruses (especially endogenous retroviruses). On the other hand, the scrapie infection can also modulate the replication of endogenous viruses. Micro RNAs (miRNAs) can also be deregulated during scrapie infection and miRNAs (or pre-miRNAs) could be detected with this J2 antibody. So in this context and through the data presented here, we can not say that "this is the strongest argument presented so far for the existence of a virus in scrapie infected cells and tissues". Many other alternatives can be suggested. The results presented here are very preliminary and much work will be required to substantiate these observations and establish their relevance.