While the author does address an important general issue of downstream analysis of gene set enrichment results, his approach is almost identical to “ Enrichment Map: A Network-Based Method for Gene-Set Enrichment Visualization and Interpretation” (Merico et al. , 2010 1 ). Furthermore, Enrichment Map provides much more information in its visualization including the size of the gene set (via the size of the node); the level of enrichment of the gene sets (via a color gradient from blue for down- to red for up-regulation); as well as the extent of overlap between gene sets (via the thickness of the edge connecting gene sets using the Jaccard index as a weight). Even considering the manuscript independent of this issue, there are a number of other concerns with the study (some minor but some more major) that require attention from the author and a major revision of the manuscript. They are listed more or less in the order that the issue appears in the manuscript. The author claims that gene set analysis “often results in finding hundreds of differentially regulated pathways”. What is the basis for this claim? While it is true that this may occur – it is also true that there may also be no statistically significantly differentially regulated pathways. Has he done experiments on a large number of benchmark data sets to establish this claim of “often”? Moreover, this may be a result of the particular gene set collection used for the analysis. Is it a function of the particular data set or enrichment approach he is using (CAMERA)? We note here that the author never describes the measure CAMERA uses for enrichment nor how up/down is determined. All these open issues should be addressed. The use of “umbrella” organization is somewhat unclear – do you mean hierarchy? Note also the need for a hierarchy of the significantly activated or repressed pathways may result from the author’s choice of gene set collection, which may not provide a significant or specific enough result. This point should be addressed. The author provides little explanation for the arbitrary choice of Jaccard Index 0.2 as the connectivity threshold. Additionally, as the edges in the networks produced by this method do not represent any other kind of continuous data, has the author considered weighting the edges by the Jaccard index in the visualization to allow the user to see the effect of various thresholds? In fact, Enrichment Map (cited above) uses the Jaccard Index itself to determine the weight of the line connecting two overlapping gene sets. These approaches need to be compared and the choice of threshold better explained and justified. Prioritizing and ranking the active pathways/gene sets by number of gene sets in a network hub and degree of connectivity seems inadequate if one is looking for biological insights. A biological measure of prioritization would be preferable which includes the levels of activation. Often a study is not done in a vacuum and so in fact some signals may be expected – this may serve as an additional measure for prioritization and even validation of the method. This issue is not addressed and should be and some validation of the results of the only test set analysed should be supplied. It is important to include and describe the numerous network-based enrichment methods that have been published and specifically Enrichment Map (cited above) which is a plugin to both Cytoscape and GSEA and does exactly what the author is describing (downstream analysis of gene set enrichment results) but is never mentioned or referenced. At the very least its performance should be compared to the author’s method. This is a requisite for any newly proposed method. The goal of this method is to “focus is on supporting scientists in result interpretation by bringing order into the list of differentially regulated gene sets based on biological rather than pure statistical arguments.” But one might ask why do this based on network measures of association and the visualization is very sparse in what it represents as noted above. Also, if this is the goal – it is incumbent on the author to show why this works better than other existing methods (see above) or even using a more sensitive/specific collection of gene sets, e.g., the Hallmark collection in MSigDB (Liberzon et al. , 2015 2 ). This provides a collection of sets for which essentially this work has been done with additional biological curation. Comparison with other methods and with the use of other gene set collections should be included. The author’s example on the “airway” data set employs an analysis with KEGG, Reactome, and BioCarta. Using these 3 databases together means there will be a large amount of redundancy and overlap in the gene sets he uses – again it would be important to compare his results using these collections against the Hallmark collection. Furthermore – why just the results from one data set? The method would be better tested against multiple data sets – some where the signal is very strong and some where the signal is weaker. The author uses the CAMERA method for testing gene sets. This method produces only a binary “Up” or “Down” measurement of enrichment which is used to color the nodes in the resulting network visualizations. This is a very coarse way of testing gene sets. The interpretability of the network visualizations could be improved by using a method such as GSEA, which gives a continuous enrichment score, and coloring the nodes with a gradient to compare degrees of up- or down-regulation and weighting the edges as is done in Enrichment map as noted above. Finally – after application of RICHNET the author only describes and discusses the nature of his resulting networks. There is no discussion that we could see of the biological insights gained, how realistic they were, whether they recapitulated known signals in the data set, etc. Technical concerns with the code as presented: The analysis fails with an unintuitive error (“could not coerce net to a network object”) if the library “Intergraph” is not installed. While this library is listed in the sessionInfo() printout in the manuscript, this library should be included in the first library() cell of the notebook since its absence is not immediately obvious given this error. 