I rather like this short paper that reports on how to identify ventral visual field maps. Having had to attempt to do this on many occasions, sometimes with limited success, I find the paper very useful in giving evidence based guidance that could really help. The video and figures that support the paper are excellent and offer a resource for early career researchers to build up confidence in what can be a challenging task. One suggestion I have that might broaden the appeal of the study is to reflect a bit more on the relationship between the layout found in human and that in macaque. V4 is split between dorsal and ventral representations of quadrants, whereas the human data are often consistent with the forth (ventral) map being a representation of a hemifield. The authors touch on this early on, but having presented their data, they may reflect further on this in the Discussion. Minor points and suggestions ‘The multiple images for each subject were aligned and averaged. Averaging multiple anatomical images is desirable as it increases the contrast of the boundary between the grey and white matter, and therefore aids segmentation and the creation of an accurate cortical surface.’ I agree, but the authors might also point out that multiple, relatively short, acquisitions are also probably better than using longer acquisitions during which participant motion could work against benefits in contrast. I understood every word of the section that described the functional methods, but I would because I pretty much use the same methods. Are more details required for a naive reader? Anatomical Figure (Figure 2) I think it would be good to use colour to mark the sulci/gyri and colour the labelling text in line with the sulcal colour. That way repeats of lettering can be avoided and less ambiguity between the location of text and the anatomical feature can be achieved. Section on calcarine sulcus. Perhaps a bit more text on the variants observed at the pole - there is a reasonably well-documented ‘Y’ configuration too, I think. Section 6.1 'The peripheral boundary is usually not identified with fMRI because the field of view that can be achieved during scanning is less than the field of view represented in the maps.' I assume this refers the the size of the stimulus, not the FOV used in imaging, but some clarification is needed here. 'and each map is traced as far into the fovea as the resolution in the angle maps allow, usually one or two degrees from fixation' I think representation needs to be inserted here a couple of times e.g. ‘as far into the representation of the fovea’ and ‘usually at the representation of one or two degrees from fixation’ 