This is a retrospective study in which the author examined the demography of keloid patients. The following points need consideration. The manuscript is too long and it can be markedly reduced without any impact on the quality of the study. For example a. Fig. 1. No need for this figure in the present study and it can be omitted together with its relevant text. Both can be useful for a separate review article. b. In the results section, patients data are given in the text and repeated in table. 1. This is unnecessary repetition. In general, what is mentioned in text should not be mentioned in table and vice versa. In fact, author can insert all patients' data in a single table. c. Table 2. Author gave a short account of another staging system of keloid which i believe more reliable (as it is objective) than the subjective visual method of the present study. However, what is the rational of mentioning this method and table 2 in this study? Both can be omitted. d. Tables 3 and 4 can be easily incorporated in a single table without many details, such as p values. Significance can be marked with asterisk (e.g., for gender), dagger (e.g. for race), etc as a footnote. In fact both can be incorporated in table 1. e. Figures 6 and 7 can be combined in one figure and the significant columns labelled (with asterisk, dagger etc) and amended as a footnote. The aim of the study is not clear and perhaps should be added in a clear statement (s). The author suggested that age of patients and duration of keloid are important factors, but the study lacks any correlation with these 2 parameters. The discussion section is not focusing on the results of this retrospective study. Is there any reason (s) apart from genetics to explain the significant tendency of Africans to develop keloids? Are fibroblasts of Africans different from Caucasians? Is there any additional explanation(s), apart from ear piercing, for the gender difference in keloid formation? The author is not in favor of surgical removal of keloids because of the risk of recurrence and massive keloid formation. Is this risk solely related to surgical injury? Does the skill of the surgeon play a role? Does the suture material or postoperative wound infection contribute to this unfavorable outcome? In general there are several confounding factors that need to be discussed instead of elaborating on other methods not related to this retrospective study. The mentioned recommendations are not appropriate in this study. Author can work on separate review article to discuss in details the different therapeutic modalities of keloids and the pros and cons of each method. In the retrospective study, the author is expected to discuss his findings. 