Thank you for the invitation to review this interesting scoping review, focussing on an important area of current research highly relevant to multiple aspects of life after stroke- that of Post-Stroke Fatigue, PSF. The current review updates the work of Hinkle et al. 2016, and the rationale for doing so is clearly stated by the authorship team. That the review here generated a further 24 studies (and six sets of guidelines including PSF) since 2016 further demonstrates the growing impetus of work in this area. The objective stated is rather non-specific, but this is acceptable in such a scoping review that serves as a summary of recent evidence. It is unsurprising that this review concludes that further research in this area is required, and the authors make relevant suggestions as to the characteristics of future research that are clearly based on the findings of this review. The review is clearly written, and the methods used and ensuing findings have been reported with transparency and considerable attention to detail. Search strategies are available via an embedded link. This paper makes a very useful contribution and provides a foundation for further work. The following minor comments and suggestions may be of use to the authors: The use of the word ‘following’ in the opening two section headings of the methods might be worth reconsidering, readability of this phrase in a title is challenging (page 3). In Figure 1, suggest clarifying ’34 not new/covered’- does this mean 34 records removed as covered in the previous review? (page 4). Section on data extracted from clinical practice guidelines, please clarify ‘study name and year’- does this refer to the name and year of the guidelines or the included studies from which the guidelines was written? (page 5). Was any specific tool used to assess risk of bias in the non-randomised studies? If so, this should be stated in the methods text. If not, some justification would be helpful. In table 3, the final column is not entirely clear- is this mean time after stroke onset for included participants? Simple clarification in the column heading or legend would address this (page 7/8). Suggest rephrasing ‘probably the most effective interventions’ to deliver a clearer message here (page 9). In the discussion, the section on online platforms is somewhat unexpected- possible delivery via online mechanisms does not seem to have arisen prior to this point, though I apologise if I have missed this. Perhaps a line to place this paragraph in context might help the interpretation here? (page 10). As the authors focus on possible reasons for the use of the Fatigue Severity Score (FSS) in one section of the discussion, it might be helpful to include a line about the validity/reliability of this measure at this point. There are a few very minor typographical and grammatical errors. 