The authors emphasize in their introduction to the present paper that: “ The theoretical frame to understand such self-regulation resides with quasispecies theory ”, however, they introduce a change in its definition or the meaning of its objects. In particular, they propose a novel definition of the chromosomal master sequence. Finally, they discuss the potential origin of this self-regulatory ability in the wider context of developmental and comparative biology with emphasis on a putative “diversification factor”, defined as a cellular mechanism regulating the adaptation of aneuploidy rates, which is active in all embryonic and adult cells, as well as cancer stem cells. Furthermore, they refer to literature asserting that single clone cancer cells derived from an aneuploid cancer subpopulation, are capable of adapting their aneuploidy rate, and they display distinct aneuploid rates in distinct environments, namely primary and metastatic microenvironments. This literature survey indicates that embryonic and adult stem cells display finely tuned, and distinct, aneuploidy rates, which are unrelated to the replication rates of the stem cells in question. Since many types of cancer cells partially inherit the hierarchical structure of the tissues from which they emanate, and are hypothesized to develop from stem like tumor cells, it seems highly probable that increased aneuploidy rates are used as an advantage to a given cell population, e.g. to increase the adaptability of stem or fast-dividing progenitor cells. In this article the authors introduce the concept of a “diversification factor”, which is probably the key issue of the article. This factor may as well be extended to a cluster of “impacting signals”, which may fit the modern definition of epigenetics, encompassing signals defined as “epigenators”, “initiators” and “maintainers”, of which transcription factors (TFs), microRNAs and histone modifying enzymes (like histone deacetylases = HDACS) are known to play important parts, since they constitute a strongly interwoven network with feed-forward- and feed-back regulatory loops. This network is under the influence of environmental/positional “factors” (epigenators, e.g. surface molecules, mechanical stimulation, environmental chemicals and others) recognized by the “initiators/maintainers” (e.g. TFs and microRNAs), and most importantly, this regulatory web is common to embryonic cells, stem cells, cancer stem cells, and adult (i.e. differentiated) cells. It is therefore highly probable that the degree of aneuploidy of cancer cells is highly dependent on environmental phenomena, and not solely on intrinsic or “inherited” traits localized within the cancerous cells themselves.