Congratulations to the authors for submitting this manuscript. Here are some comments for your consideration: The authors suggest using model time-to-event modeling instead of binary outcomes. Providing references to show that this is beneficial over binary outputs would be useful. Modeling time-to-event would provide continuous output variables, and therefore require regression methods and not classification methods. It is not clear if the time-to-event is being model as binary variable, in which case the novelty is reduced, or the authors plan to use only regression methods. Please clarify. Regarding “Three machine learning methods (survival tree, random survival forest and survival support vector machine) and one traditional regression method, Cox proportional regression, will be used to develop the two predictive models.”, is this one model live and one model for deceased donors? Changing this here and elsewhere to read as “one model live and one model for deceased donors, respectively” would make this clear. “However, evidence indicate that the health systems around the world, have failed to meet the increasing demand for kidney grafts. This is evident from the growing prevalence of ESRD in the world3.” These two sentences do not seem related as suggested by the authors. Listing or providing the 83 variables as a supplementary material will be helpful in reproducing methods. Providing references for many of the methods mentioned (e.g. VIF) would also help. “Even though having a large number of input variables may potentially produce superior results with high accuracy, in a practical sense it is important that a manageable number of input variables are used in the model.” This might not always be true. The goal is to avoid the curse of dimensionality and have appropriate number of independent variables. Consider using cross-validation for model evaluation. How is survival SVM different from any SVM? The authors could consider evaluating the machine learning models with currently used methods in clinical settings as mentioned in the introductory remarks. 