The authors provide pilot study which try to evaluate the interest to monitor the anesthesia and surgical stresses by the NOL index (multiple physiological parameters). It was a prospective observational study with patients scheduled for video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery with or without thoracic epidural analgesia (function of patient preference). The comparison was made between the NOL and the usual cardiovascular response (HR, and MBP). During the first step the authors compare the variations during and just after the tracheal intubation under regular anesthesia protocol (lidocaine, fentanyl, propofol then sevoflurane, and rocuronium) under BIS monitoring. During the second step; similar evaluation was performed during the surgical incision (epidural 5mL lidocaine 2% Vs. bolus 1mcg/mL fentanyl). The authors reported a more sensitive and reliable NOL variations than HR variations (with or without sympathetic protection; i.e. intubation Vs. thoracic surgical incision). My major remark is just based on semantic reflection. Instead of a discussion of intra-operative nociception it could be better to discuss the cardiovascular response to the stress, or in a more general way to the sympathetic / para sympathetic balance assessment to the anesthetic stress (intubation) and surgical stress (skin incision in this study). Minor Points: The authors must clarify the procedure used to control the epidural catheter tip location (ephedrine is just for the accidental IV administration) and his true efficacy (postoperative pain evaluation; not only by the lack of supplementary intraoperative doses of fentanyl). Table 1 results must be expressed with variations (i.e. +/- SD). It is a pity that the postoperative pain evaluation was not reported, and correlate or not, with NOL variations (or with the AUC of NOL). Despite several limitations in the study reported by the authors (not double-blind randomization); the concept proof of reliable monitoring by the NOL index is confirmed in this pilot study. Unfortunately, the authors did not try to correlate these NOL variations with the level of postoperative pain (or analgesic consumption). 