 The paper submitted by Suzuki and Hao highlights the importance of modifications occurring in proteins as a consequence of oxidative stress. In this particular case, the authors provide data showing that proline residue at position 45 in peroxiredoxin 6 can be converted into glutamic acid residues through glutamyl semialdehyde. The results shown in the paper are well designed, solved and clear. From technical point of view, the approach is precise and gives the information necessary to draw the conclusions. Nevertheless there are some minor details that this reviewer consider that should be added or corrected in the text: The conversion of proline to glutamic semialdehyde is already known. Since the results show that the carbonyl group is further oxidized to glutamic acid, the authors should add a sentence about how they believe this last step of oxidation occurs. The authors show that P45 is transformed to E (provided a mass increase of 31,990 daltons). Did the authors check (or find) the intermediate form –the glutamic semialdehyde- and if so, to what extent this intermediate is further oxidized to glutamic acid? A brief sentence should be added to the text if they have these data. There is an exciting idea concerning the concept of “naturally occurring protein engineering”. Being this true, do the authors believe that this could be a motor for evolution? Could they add a short comment on that? Finally, I disagree with the use of “interchangeable” in the text. This would induce to think that a protein could have a P or a E or a R in a given position without compromising its function. It is hard to believe that changing an E for an R would result in a neutral consequence. Since the consequences of such change (increase or decrease activity, stability,…) has not been proved in the case of Prx6, it seems reasonable that the term should be removed and simply say that this could be a driving force for evolution, for instance (as suggested above). In the “Discussion” I would suggest the authors to change the sentence starting with “.Such studies would open up…”. I think they can really say “…studies will open up…” and change “…have functional roles…” for “can acquire new functional roles…”. Do the authors agree? 