The study was designed to investigate the impact of prehospital CPAP in the mortality of patients with cardiac acute pulmonary edema, in comparison to bag-valve-mask (BVM). Patients were elected by paramedics according to their perception of severity after protocolized medical treatment, and randomized to CPAP or BVM. Authors conclude that CPAP is better than BVM in improving respiratory acidosis and reducing mortality. Design and implementation of studies that involve interventions in prehospital setting entails a great effort of coordination, an important leadership and are difficult to carry out. My congratulations to the authors for being able to do it. In the other hand, demonstrate the impact of a short time of treatment on the overall evolution of patients is complicated and it requires studies with a large number of patients and many controlled variables. The objective proposed in this study has been subject to some meta-analyses that have not been cited in this article. These meta-analyses concluded that the use of prehospital CPAP in patients with suspected acute pulmonary edema leads to a reduction in intubation rate and mortality of these patients. The presented results can help to do the evidence more solid. Major considerations 1. It would be interesting to discuss about the most important methodological differences with other prehospital protocols, especially regarding the respiratory support received by the control group, which does not include the possibility of intubation. As authors comment in the discussion, respiratory support with bag-valve-mask during out-of-hospital assistance in control group is not easy and could partially explain the gasometrical deterioration of these patients. BVM is not the most commonly used ventilatory support in other countries 1 and its potential influence on the high mortality of the control group could be discussed. Considering that the included patients were aware (taking into account the initial vital signs), the ventilation technique could appear unnecessary. It would be interesting that authors justify in the discussion section their use instead of oxygen therapy alone in the control group. It is not clear what the clinical situation before randomization was. To expand the table 1 with vital signs and oxygen saturation at this moment would provide valuable information. 2. The absence of physiological criteria of inclusion is an important limitation already commented by the authors. This issue make the study difficult to reproduce in other areas 3. The authors should clarify when the data in the Dataset 1 has been collected. When studied in detail, it seems that most of the deceased patients in the control group (and one of the CPAP group) had exclusion criteria (if data marked with the number 1 are initial) such as Glasgow less than 12 or systolic blood pressure lower than 90 mmHg or unregistered. Is this interpretation correct? What does each column correspond to? 4. I have understood that out-of-hospital treatment protocol was maintained during the first 30 minutes of hospital assistance. This issue may have caused or magnified the observed differences in the prognosis and deserves consideration in the discussion, which also includes ethical aspects of this decision. It would be interesting to report the total treatment times in both groups as well as when non invasive ventilation or CPAP was initiated in the control group, if needed. Regarding the differences in blood gases, the persistence of important respiratory acidosis in patients in the control group is not coherent with clinical situation, since vital signs at hospital arrival were not worse in the control group. It is also important to clarify whether these patients received no respiratory support on arrival and during the first 30 minutes irrespective of what their situation was (as I have understood in the methods/measurements and discussion sections), which would mean an important ethical conflict. Other considerations 5. The fact that only two of the nine patients who died in the control group were finally intubate does not allow concluding about mortality, as they not received all the alternative treatment. It would be desirable to add a reference to this type of patients in the final conclusion of the article. 6. Further details on the baseline cardiopathy status, severity indices and treatments received would help to conclude that the difference in mortality can be attributed to the different prehospital management. As the authors mentioned, the impact of 30 minutes in the stay of 3 to 7 days is very difficult to demonstrate and all the previous factors and significant treatments received would have to be taken into account. 7. Nothing has been said about the tolerance of both methods. 8. The last section of the abstract does not refer to the discussion but to the conclusions. 9. Taking into account the method used and its limitations, the first sentence of the discussion and the conclusion could be rewritten to better reflect the results. 10. The refereed study by Cheskes 2 includes not only patients with less severe acute exacerbations of heart failure but also respiratory patients (almost 50% and 50%). 11. Frusemide usually appears in the literature as furosemide. 