To identify drug candidates against Ebola virus infections is surely an urgent need, especially in light of recent virus outbreaks registered mostly in Africa. In this respect, Velijkovics article is presented in a timely manner and offers a fast and reliable opportunity to screen among large databases to reposition old drugs against Ebola. The experimental design relies on a consolidated methodology, developed by some of the authors and successfully applied in multiple projects. Overall, the manuscript is clear and few minor editing would be necessary, in my personal opinion, to improve its consistency. In Materials and Methods, a dataset of 152 drugs that counteract Ebola virus in vitro and in vivo has been selected as training set. However, it seems that an inconsistency does exist within this number. As authors have reported, these anti-Ebola drugs have been identified by Madrid (24 molecules) and Kouznetsova (53 molecules and 95 weaker drugs). Accordingly, the total number of FDA-approved drugs identified in these studies is 172. Why authors used a smaller set of 152? Is there any structural redundancy? A clarification of this discrepancy would improve the reproducibility of the work. Finally, if I understood properly authors have selected more than 500 molecules (including FDA-approved and experimental drugs) as anti-Ebola candidates by means of in silico screening and suggest that further in vitro/in vivo tests should be performed on these molecules. In my opinion, this number is still too large for enabling efficient and fast in vitro and/or in vivo assays. Experimental testing of this set would require significant efforts. Just for comparison, the number of candidates selected in silico by authors is about half of those selected by Madrid by means of HTS (ref 2). Is there a way to prioritize small molecules by using the EIIP/AQVN-based approach, and to provide a lower number of compounds to be submitted to experimental evaluation? Authors should comment on this point, because the advantage of using the EIIP/AQVN-based screening in silico appears to be limited in the current version of the manuscript.