The paper "Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorders: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study” covers, besides the well-known comorbidity of ADHD with substance use disorders (SUDs), a very interesting field of research concerning the associations between ADHD subtypes and substance use disorders. It adds to the knowledge and differentiates knowledge in focusing on ADHD subtypes. Particularly we noted the large sample size, as it allows more reliable results, the valid assessment of ADHD by using standardized instruments and third-party information and the well detailed statistical analysis. The applied methods appear overall reasonable and valid to us. We have some remarks that should be addressed: The authors mentioned that assessment of substance use was based on ICD-10 criteria. However they didn’t exactly explain their method to gather this data. We noted here the lack of standardized instruments. Furthermore they pooled substance abuse and dependence in one category. The rational for using this procedure should be given in more detail. We missed information about psychopharmacological treatment. This information might provide potential correlations of treatment/no treatment with substance use. Another question regards the comorbid disorders: It should be discussed that comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD 1 is also known to co-occur with SUD. Further, we wonder that only 6% of the patients had a comorbid personality disorder, which is low in contrast to some studies reporting prevalence rates of personality disorders between 25% and 78% among individuals with ADHD 2 - 5 . It is also important to make clear, how the authors assessed comorbid disorders. Did they use standardized instruments? The sample size of 327 represented on Table 1, page 4, does not correspond to the described sample size in the paragraph above “Results” (“…were compared with the remaining 349 subjects…” or “N=332-345, depending on questionnaire participants…”). In the discussion it might be interesting to explain the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. It would also be interesting to know about possible hypotheses and assumptions among the authors concerning the subtype difference in cocaine abuse/dependence. Are there neuropsychological or clinical differences between the subtypes which protect the inattentive subtype from cocaine dependence? The discussion should also comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. References 1. Philipsen A, Limberger MF, Lieb K, Feige B, et al.: Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder as a potentially aggravating factor in borderline personality disorder. Br J Psychiatry . 2008; 192 (2): 118-23 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Jacob CP, Romanos J, Dempfle A, Heine M, et al.: Co-morbidity of adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder with focus on personality traits and related disorders in a tertiary referral center. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci . 2007; 257 (6): 309-17 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Cumyn L, French L, Hechtman L: Comorbidity in adults with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. Can J Psychiatry . 2009; 54 (10): 673-83 PubMed Abstract 4. Matthies S, van Elst LT, Feige B, Fischer D, et al.: Severity of childhood attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder--a risk factor for personality disorders in adult life?. J Pers Disord . 2011; 25 (1): 101-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Williams ED, Reimherr FW, Marchant BK, Strong RE, et al.: Personality disorder in ADHD Part 1: Assessment of personality disorder in adult ADHD using data from a clinical trial of OROS methylphenidate. Ann Clin Psychiatry . 2010; 22 (2): 84-93 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Matthies S and Hoxhaj E. Reviewer Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r16482 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v1#referee-response-16482 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 19 Oct 2016 Michael Liebrenz , Psychiatric University Hospital, Research Group on ADHD, Zurich, Switzerland 19 Oct 2016 Author Response We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The ... Continue reading We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The reviewer asks us to elaborate on how ICD-10 criteria for substance use were assessed and why abuse and dependence were pooled. ICD-10 criteria were applied by a highly experienced clinician (DE) in a semi-structured interview. No official instrument was used. Estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate and seems justified to us also because both describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. The reviewer asks for information on psychopharmacological treatment. Unfortunately, such information is not available. The reviewer asks us to discuss and to clarify assessment of comorbidities. We have addressed these questions in the Methods and in the Discussion (Limitations) Section. We now state: “Comorbid disorders were diagnosed according to ICD-10 by DE in a semi-structured interview, again without an official instrument.” and “Furthermore comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD and is difficult to differentiate, is also known to be associated with SUD. However in this sample that relied for diagnosis of comorbidity on a semi-structured clinical interview, but not on additional instruments, we found only 6% of patients suffering from a comorbid personality disorder. This is low in comparison to some studies reporting prevalence rates between 25 – 78%.” The N=327 reflects the fact that not all patients diagnosed with ADHD fulfilled subtype criteria. Remember that in this study, ADHD was diagnosed according to Utah (Wender-Rheimherr), not DSM, criteria, and subtypes were constructed post-hoc using scores on the ADHS-SB questionnaire. This means that the diagnosis itself does not necessarily entail a subtype assignment, and vice versa. Thus, in about 20 participants ADHS-SB scores were not high enough to yield a subtype classification. This is now explained in the methods section under the heading "Assessment of ADHD symptomatology". The reviewer suggests to discuss the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. We have addressed these aspects in an expanded discussion section. We now state: “ On a different note van Wingen et al investigated structural brain abnormalities in this population and reported of significantly smaller grey matter volumes in the occipital cortex as well as smaller volumes in the putamen in ADHD patients with comorbid cocaine dependence when compared to those without this lifetime diagnosis. The authors of aforementioned study suggested that the differences in putamen volumes may reflect alterations in the availability of striatal dopamine transporters that are available for interaction with methylphenidate, thus giving some explanation for the finding that methylphenidate is less effective in patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence.” The reviewer asks us to comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. We now point towards research by Levin et al and have expanded the conclusion section: “ Furthermore a study among patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence receiving methylphenidate, demonstrated an advantage over placebo with regard to reduction in cocaine use in individuals who responded to ADHD treatment.” We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The reviewer asks us to elaborate on how ICD-10 criteria for substance use were assessed and why abuse and dependence were pooled. ICD-10 criteria were applied by a highly experienced clinician (DE) in a semi-structured interview. No official instrument was used. Estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate and seems justified to us also because both describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. The reviewer asks for information on psychopharmacological treatment. Unfortunately, such information is not available. The reviewer asks us to discuss and to clarify assessment of comorbidities. We have addressed these questions in the Methods and in the Discussion (Limitations) Section. We now state: “Comorbid disorders were diagnosed according to ICD-10 by DE in a semi-structured interview, again without an official instrument.” and “Furthermore comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD and is difficult to differentiate, is also known to be associated with SUD. However in this sample that relied for diagnosis of comorbidity on a semi-structured clinical interview, but not on additional instruments, we found only 6% of patients suffering from a comorbid personality disorder. This is low in comparison to some studies reporting prevalence rates between 25 – 78%.” The N=327 reflects the fact that not all patients diagnosed with ADHD fulfilled subtype criteria. Remember that in this study, ADHD was diagnosed according to Utah (Wender-Rheimherr), not DSM, criteria, and subtypes were constructed post-hoc using scores on the ADHS-SB questionnaire. This means that the diagnosis itself does not necessarily entail a subtype assignment, and vice versa. Thus, in about 20 participants ADHS-SB scores were not high enough to yield a subtype classification. This is now explained in the methods section under the heading "Assessment of ADHD symptomatology". The reviewer suggests to discuss the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. We have addressed these aspects in an expanded discussion section. We now state: “ On a different note van Wingen et al investigated structural brain abnormalities in this population and reported of significantly smaller grey matter volumes in the occipital cortex as well as smaller volumes in the putamen in ADHD patients with comorbid cocaine dependence when compared to those without this lifetime diagnosis. The authors of aforementioned study suggested that the differences in putamen volumes may reflect alterations in the availability of striatal dopamine transporters that are available for interaction with methylphenidate, thus giving some explanation for the finding that methylphenidate is less effective in patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence.” The reviewer asks us to comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. We now point towards research by Levin et al and have expanded the conclusion section: “ Furthermore a study among patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence receiving methylphenidate, demonstrated an advantage over placebo with regard to reduction in cocaine use in individuals who responded to ADHD treatment.” Competing Interests: None. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 19 Oct 2016 Michael Liebrenz , Psychiatric University Hospital, Research Group on ADHD, Zurich, Switzerland 19 Oct 2016 Author Response We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The ... Continue reading We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The reviewer asks us to elaborate on how ICD-10 criteria for substance use were assessed and why abuse and dependence were pooled. ICD-10 criteria were applied by a highly experienced clinician (DE) in a semi-structured interview. No official instrument was used. Estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate and seems justified to us also because both describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. The reviewer asks for information on psychopharmacological treatment. Unfortunately, such information is not available. The reviewer asks us to discuss and to clarify assessment of comorbidities. We have addressed these questions in the Methods and in the Discussion (Limitations) Section. We now state: “Comorbid disorders were diagnosed according to ICD-10 by DE in a semi-structured interview, again without an official instrument.” and “Furthermore comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD and is difficult to differentiate, is also known to be associated with SUD. However in this sample that relied for diagnosis of comorbidity on a semi-structured clinical interview, but not on additional instruments, we found only 6% of patients suffering from a comorbid personality disorder. This is low in comparison to some studies reporting prevalence rates between 25 – 78%.” The N=327 reflects the fact that not all patients diagnosed with ADHD fulfilled subtype criteria. Remember that in this study, ADHD was diagnosed according to Utah (Wender-Rheimherr), not DSM, criteria, and subtypes were constructed post-hoc using scores on the ADHS-SB questionnaire. This means that the diagnosis itself does not necessarily entail a subtype assignment, and vice versa. Thus, in about 20 participants ADHS-SB scores were not high enough to yield a subtype classification. This is now explained in the methods section under the heading "Assessment of ADHD symptomatology". The reviewer suggests to discuss the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. We have addressed these aspects in an expanded discussion section. We now state: “ On a different note van Wingen et al investigated structural brain abnormalities in this population and reported of significantly smaller grey matter volumes in the occipital cortex as well as smaller volumes in the putamen in ADHD patients with comorbid cocaine dependence when compared to those without this lifetime diagnosis. The authors of aforementioned study suggested that the differences in putamen volumes may reflect alterations in the availability of striatal dopamine transporters that are available for interaction with methylphenidate, thus giving some explanation for the finding that methylphenidate is less effective in patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence.” The reviewer asks us to comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. We now point towards research by Levin et al and have expanded the conclusion section: “ Furthermore a study among patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence receiving methylphenidate, demonstrated an advantage over placebo with regard to reduction in cocaine use in individuals who responded to ADHD treatment.” We appreciate the dedicated and useful comments of Dr. Swantje and Dr. Hoxhaj and the editor and the chance they gave us to improve the manuscript. The reviewer asks us to elaborate on how ICD-10 criteria for substance use were assessed and why abuse and dependence were pooled. ICD-10 criteria were applied by a highly experienced clinician (DE) in a semi-structured interview. No official instrument was used. Estimates of percentages would have been small and noisy if we had separated dependence and abuse. Combining them gives a more robust estimate and seems justified to us also because both describe a serious level of substance use that requires treatment. The reviewer asks for information on psychopharmacological treatment. Unfortunately, such information is not available. The reviewer asks us to discuss and to clarify assessment of comorbidities. We have addressed these questions in the Methods and in the Discussion (Limitations) Section. We now state: “Comorbid disorders were diagnosed according to ICD-10 by DE in a semi-structured interview, again without an official instrument.” and “Furthermore comorbidities, particularly personality disorders might have confounded the results. For instance, Borderline personality disorder, which often co-occurs with ADHD and is difficult to differentiate, is also known to be associated with SUD. However in this sample that relied for diagnosis of comorbidity on a semi-structured clinical interview, but not on additional instruments, we found only 6% of patients suffering from a comorbid personality disorder. This is low in comparison to some studies reporting prevalence rates between 25 – 78%.” The N=327 reflects the fact that not all patients diagnosed with ADHD fulfilled subtype criteria. Remember that in this study, ADHD was diagnosed according to Utah (Wender-Rheimherr), not DSM, criteria, and subtypes were constructed post-hoc using scores on the ADHS-SB questionnaire. This means that the diagnosis itself does not necessarily entail a subtype assignment, and vice versa. Thus, in about 20 participants ADHS-SB scores were not high enough to yield a subtype classification. This is now explained in the methods section under the heading "Assessment of ADHD symptomatology". The reviewer suggests to discuss the use and effects of cocaine among individuals with ADHD, especially with regard to neurobiology. We have addressed these aspects in an expanded discussion section. We now state: “ On a different note van Wingen et al investigated structural brain abnormalities in this population and reported of significantly smaller grey matter volumes in the occipital cortex as well as smaller volumes in the putamen in ADHD patients with comorbid cocaine dependence when compared to those without this lifetime diagnosis. The authors of aforementioned study suggested that the differences in putamen volumes may reflect alterations in the availability of striatal dopamine transporters that are available for interaction with methylphenidate, thus giving some explanation for the finding that methylphenidate is less effective in patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence.” The reviewer asks us to comment on the relevance of the presented findings for therapeutic approaches. We now point towards research by Levin et al and have expanded the conclusion section: “ Furthermore a study among patients with ADHD and a comorbid cocaine dependence receiving methylphenidate, demonstrated an advantage over placebo with regard to reduction in cocaine use in individuals who responded to ADHD treatment.” Competing Interests: None. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Auriacombe M, Alexandre JM and Fatseas M. Reviewer Report For: Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Associations between subtype and lifetime substance use – a clinical study [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :407 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r11890 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-407/v1#referee-response-11890 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 17 Feb 2016 Marc Auriacombe , Addiction Psychiatry Team, Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Pôle Addictologie, CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Jean-Marc Alexandre , Pôle Addictologie, CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Addiction Psychiatry Team, Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Melina Fatseas , Pôle Addictologie, CH Ch. Perrens / CHU Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Addiction Psychiatry Team, Sanpsy CNRS USR 3413, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7284.r11890 In this clinical study, Liebrenz et al . addressed the association between Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) subtypes and lifetime substance-use disorders (SUD). This topic is of particular interest (Fatseas et al 2012), as there is a strong literature supporting a relationship ... Continue reading READ ALL 