This manuscript by Wingett and collaborators describes HiCUP, a pre-processing pipeline for Hi-C data. The pipeline is designed as an executable command-line tool that includes the most common pre-processing steps for Hi-C datasets, including read truncation and mapping, filtering, assignment of read to restriction fragments, detection and removal of PCR duplicates and generation of quality evaluation plots. The pipeline is solid and well implemented. We have downloaded and tested the current version of the pipeline using one of our locally produced Hi-C datasets, and the filtering results of the pipeline are equivalent to our locally implemented pre-processing pipelines. Therefore, we are happy with the implementation of the software and have no major concerns with the manuscript. We only have a few minor comments that we hope will help the authors to improve the software. Table 1 It would be useful to include a further column that would display the % calculated against the total number of di-tags per sample. This would allow the user to quickly determine the overall amount of PCR-duplicates included in the library. HTML reporting Given that the tool is aimed to provide the user with an easy way to highlight errors with Hi-C libraries, it would be useful to implement the following in the HTML report: - include a clearer description of how the cutoff for reads that are “too short to map” is chosen, and indicate if this can be changed by the user - include labelling to indicate what part of the reporting corresponds to the “read” level and what corresponds to the “pairs” level. - include a plot with the inwards/outwards bias as function of distance from restriction fragment as proposed by Jin et al. , (2013) 1 . This is already calculated by the pipeline, but the representation of the data will help the user to determine whether the library has specific issues with under-digestions or ligation artefacts. Screenshots The manuscript could include some screenshots of the reporting output to guide the user through it and to highlight what are the key indicators of good/bad quality datasets (some of these could even be obtained using simulated datasets with specific biases). This can also be provided as a guided example in the online documentation of the pipeline. Ratio trans/cis interactions The manuscript states that “A high trans/cis ratio is indicative of a poor library, since spurious ligation events will tend to be between genomic loci on different chromosomes [ref 18]”. While we agree that this is a possible interpretation of that scenario, it should be noted that the trans/cis ratio depends on the genome’s size and the number of chromosomes that each species has, and it might also be related with specific higher-order chromatin conformations, or depend on the specific Hi-C protocol used in that experiment. Therefore, the authors might not want to generalise the interpretation of the high trans/cis ratio, or, at least, give more specific guidance regarding the interpretation of this ratio. For example, the four datasets included in this manuscript would produce trans/cis ratios of 0, 0.18, 0.52 and 1.18 for bacteria, yeast, fly and human, respectively, which in this case correlate with the genome size and the number of chromosomes in each species, but that are not necessarily indicative of the quality of these datasets. Implementation and code availability Run on a sample of one of our locally produced Hi-C data sets (12 million paired reads), the HiCUP pipeline finishes in a reasonable amount of time (~2 hours with sequential processing of two files, a little more than half the time when it is run on two threads [2300 Mhz AMD Opteron Processor, 64Gb RAM]). The configuration file could be very convenient, but required some copy-pasting of file paths. Regarding this, it is unclear why R can be automatically detected, but the full path of bowtie2 has to be specified. In addition, it might be convenient to also add the HiCUP_digester step of the pipeline to the main HiCUP executable The link to the software package was identical to the version control system link, and it was not straightforward to find the link to the self-hosted bug report system. We think that having the ability to review code online, file bug reports, and contribute to the package using a more generally used online repository (such as GitHub) would make HiCUP even more useful. References 1. Jin F, Li Y, Dixon JR, Selvaraj S, et al.: A high-resolution map of the three-dimensional chromatin interactome in human cells. Nature . 2013; 503 (7475): 290-4 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Vaquerizas JM and Kai K. Reviewer Report For: HiCUP: pipeline for mapping and processing Hi-C data [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1310 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7903.r11292 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1310/v1#referee-response-11292 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Ay F. Reviewer Report For: HiCUP: pipeline for mapping and processing Hi-C data [version 1; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1310 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7903.r11293 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1310/v1#referee-response-11293 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 02 Dec 2015 Ferhat Ay , Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7903.r11293 This article describes the HiCUP pipeline that has already been used by many for mapping and initial processing of Hi-C data. HiCUP is a useful tool for processing both traditional Hi-C data and more recent Capture Hi-C data. The article ... Continue reading READ ALL 