In this manuscript, the authors study a controversial issue in insect immunity: the existence of memory or in other words whether sub-lethal doses of a pathogen may “prime” the insect to respond more efficiently (and survive) a subsequent infection with an otherwise lethal dose of the same pathogen. Memory in insect immunity has been reported since the field began in the classic work of Metalnikow [Metalnikow S (1929) Immunit d’adaptation et immunit de defense SR. Soc. Biol. 101 , 34–67] and more recently in a paper by David Schneider’s lab [Pham LN, Dionne MS, Shirasu-Hiza M, Schneider D (2007) A specific primed response in Drosophila is dependent on hemocytes . PLoS Pathog . 3 , e26] as well as in a paper published by Siva-Jothy’s lab in Sheffield [Moret Y Siva-Jothy MT (2003). Adaptive innate immunity? Responsive-mode prophylaxis in the mealworm beetle, Tenebrio molitor . Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B , 270 : 2475-2480]. Therefore, the possible existence of memory (or “priming”) is an interesting subject and warrants further investigation to explore the limitations of such a response and its characteristics. The types of experiments that one would use to do this (and are indeed used in this work) are mainly survival experiments following infection. Any differences must be very well documented with appropriate statistical tests. Regarding statistical analysis one comment that I would like to make (prompted by Figure 6; curves for other figures seem OK) is that crossing survival curves between different treatments/genotypes indicate non-proportional hazards (so one needs to check for crossing hazards to be sure). Such a scenario increases the probability of a Type II error when using the log-rank test (and weighted log-rank tests) i.e. concluding there is no statistical difference when there actually is one. There are alternative tests to analyse data with crossing hazards (e.g. Renyi-type), and applying one of these to the data set of Figure 6 in addition to their current analysis is a must. Regardless of statistics, their wild-type-background result (and the basis of the research) is a shift in survival of 2 – 4 hours if flies are pre-primed: what is the significance of that? For Figures 3 and 4 the OR flies survive at approx. 30% by 30 hours (although I am not clear of how many times these experiments were repeated? See below comment) – what would be of more interest is whether these flies have recovered from the PA14 infection i.e. do they continue to survive after 30 hours (and for how long)? Have the flies cleared / controlled the PA14 bacteria. The authors therefore need to look at survival and CFUs beyond 30 hours. Further, the biggest shift at 50%_survival - from all the experiments - between primed and non-primed is 4 hours (Fig. 3, OR): is this a real difference or is it within the boundaries of variation? Generally, from what I can tell, experiments have only been performed once, and mostly this is with 19 – 35 flies: if more flies were used, along with biological repeats, would the same trends consistently be observed? Finally, I think the authors really need to show the fly survival with CF5 and heat-killed CF5; but more importantly, inject live CF5 into the pre-seeded flies as they did with PA14 i.e. if then, the pre-seeded CF5-live flies survive slightly better as they did with PA14, it points to a general mechanism rather than one relating to the virulence of the bacteria. And vice versa, where if a strain is more virulent, then “priming” may be advantageous. Minor: Generally, data is better presented as Kaplan-Meier curves; since you are dead or not dead, having slopes between time-of-death is misleading (unless the data set is modelled).In figure legends: if error bars are shown, it should be indicated what they are describing. And the test used to derive the P-value should be given with this value.