Authors of the BMA tool propose the creation of a bioinformatics tool that identifies changes in nucleotide and amino acid sequences which could represent an impact on antiviral resistance. The suggested system is a promising idea that could be useful for biomedical and pharmacological areas as there is no freely available similar tools. One of my concerns, if not the main is English vocabulary and grammar, I would suggest the authors to take advantage of an editing service as some statements could be improved. For a start, from the BMA home page, “In biology, a mutation is a change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an org…Mutations play a part in both normal and abnormal biological processes including: evolution, cancer, and the development of the immune system, including junction diversity…Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely.” I would suggest “In biology, a mutation is a change in the nucleotide sequence on the genome of an org…Mutations play an important role in both normal and abnormal biological processes such as: evolution, cancer, and the development of the immune system, including junction diversity. Mutations can result in several different types of sequence changes; such changes could have no effect, alter the product of the gene, or prevent it from functioning properly or completely.” It would also be advisable that authors present a tutorial link in the BMA site. As for the manuscript, authors should explain for figure 2 what is shown under the column named “Main”; and again, be careful about expressions such as scientifically support. As for any publication on bioinformatics tools, F1000 ask the author to provide sufficient details of codes used for the implementation and operation, unfortunately could not find this information; The only code needed to insert different sequences is the symbol as in other bioinformatics programs, however the authors should be very clear about this, for example, in the 4th line of number 3 in Results, they only mention “BMA can recognize plain text files, but they have to follow a specific format”, so what do they mean with specific format?, this line is not needed as they explain the required format immediately. Another point that should be improved is in Figure 3. Introduce the patient sequence in a text file format instead of “plain text” I would also suggest to change figure 6, for one where the pointer is over the node so that the reader will be able to see what each node represents.