The authors aimed to compare Indonesian growth references for height, weight, and BMI with WHO standards. The authors conclude that the WHO standards over-diagnose stunting and underweight in the Musi sub-district. This is an important study as it examines whether the globally used WHO growth charts are applicable also for infants and children of the Musi sub-district, Indonesia. Yet, the manuscript needs clarification. The authors do not clearly distinguish between the terms “standard” and “reference”: Growth references are statistical summaries of anthropometry, conditioned (usually) on age and sex. References describe how children do grow. Growth standards describe how children should grow. (Garza C, de Onis M. Rationale for developing a new international growth reference. Food Nutr Bull 2004;25(1 Suppl):S5-14.). This is an important distinction. The data presented in this study provide a growth “reference” for the children of the Musi sub-district as they describe how these children grow. They do not describe how these children might grow under different conditions. The authors use the terms “stunting”, “wasting”, and “underweight”. These terms refer to body size, they do not describe the nutritional situation. Underweight is defined as: weight for age –2 standard deviations (SD) of the WHO Child Growth Standards median. Stunting is defined as height for age –2 SD of the WHO Child Growth Standards median. Wasting is defined as weight for height –2 SD of the WHO Child Growth Standards median 1 ). The three terms relate to an internationally used “standard”, suggesting that this standard is also applicable to the Indonesian population. But this has been questioned. Healthy Indonesians are shorter and lighter than healthy white US citizens (who grow similar to what the WHO considers their growth standard). The difference in size between Indonesian and US Americans was the rational to develop national Indonesian growth references (Pulungan et al. 2018). In addition, the authors use the term “undernutrition”. Undernutrition refers to food: Undernutrition can be defined as "lack of proper nutrition, caused by not having enough food or not eating enough food containing substances necessary for growth and health" ( https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/undernutrition ). Chronic undernutrition has an impact on body size as it results in poor growth, but being short (stunting) is not a synonym of mal- or undernutrition (Scheffler C et al. Stunting is not a synonym of malnutrition. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2019 May 29 2 ). Short people may be short for other than nutritional reasons. It is not clear whether the authors wanted to study size (length and weight), or the nutritional situation of the children of Musi. They start the manuscript with the words: “Undernutrition among children under five …”. Later it is written: “There are three indicators to measure nutritional imbalance that lead to undernutrition …” suggesting that the manuscript is on nutrition. But where is the data on food? The authors need to provide information on food, or at least on energy deposits in terms of skinfold thickness, arm circumferences etc., or in the case of mal- or undernutrition, show clinical signs of protein or calorie malnutrition, or signs of micronutrient deficiencies. This is not the case. It is known to the reviewer that there is international confusion about the terms stunting and malnutrition. Calculating the portion of stunted children refers to the question of how many children are below height for age –2 SD of the WHO Child Growth Standards median. This does not necessarily mean that this portion of children is also undernourished. The manuscript needs major rethinking and re-evaluating of the measurements of height and weight. It is necessary to describe growth of the children of Musi, and to publish these data. The children of Musi are shorter and lighter than suggested by the WHO standard. But this does NOT mean that these children suffer from food shortage. It rather appears that the WHO standard is not applicable for these children, and thus does NOT indicate malnutrition of this child population. This needs to be stressed. The authors should carefully read some of the recent papers discussing the misinterpretation of stunting as a sign of undernutrition (Hermanussen et al. The impact of social identity and social dominance on the regulation of human growth. A viewpoint. Acta Paediatr. 2019 Aug 16 3 ). The tables show odds ratios. It is much more informative when data are presented as true values. The reader is not so much interested in what proportion of children ranges above or below a certain cut-off, but what are the mean values of height, weight, etc. in this child population. Minor comments: Correct the term “national standard”. What you mean is: “national reference”. Correct the term “gender”. What you mean is probably “sex”. Table 4 needs to be shortened, there is no need to show empty boxes. The same applies for table 6 Discussion: The authors write: “SGA is a result of poor maternal nutrition during pregnancy”. This is not quite true. Ample evidence obtained from European countries during periods of war and post-war starvation illustrates that even when pregnant women are severely undernourished, the newborn infants only suffer from minor decreases in body weight (Keys A, Brozek J, Henschel A, Mickelsen O, Longstreet Taylor H. The biology of human starvation. The University of Minnesota Press. Minneapolis. 1950.). See various comments in the text . 