The authors have summarised the current literature around methods for conducting systematic reviews, encompassing reviews of prevalence, prognosis, diagnosis and intervention effectiveness. In a field of methodology where some guidance is collated in well-known handbooks, but other areas are scattered among the methods literature, and where development of new methods is relatively fast-moving, this map of available guidance and methods studies is likely to be very useful to researchers new to systematic reviews or branching out into different review types. The authors are experienced experts in this field, and the review is well-written and clear. In my understanding, this paper aims to fulfil two roles: (1) a toolkit that enables authors of systematic reviews to navigate out to key methods resources, and (2) a brief summary of methods guidance for each review type. It may be helpful throughout the paper, including in the abstract and conclusions, to separate out these two roles more clearly. I have some suggestions to improve the transparency and usability of the paper from each of these perspectives. Major recommendations As a review and toolkit of methodological resources, I would make the following suggestions: Methods: The authors could provide more transparent detail on the selection process for included documents, including specifying which organisational websites were searched, how many resources were identified, and if any were excluded. Although this is intended as a mapping, rather than systematic review, some additional detail would help readers to understand how the guidance documents were selected, and why perhaps some resources they may have used before are not listed. Importantly, more detail could presented on how the authors selected the most “relevant” or “best” resources, especially where there may have been multiple candidate documents. For example, were they most recent, most comprehensive, those endorsed by a credible organisation, most introductory, most rigorous methods? The role of the authors’ expert judgement in these decisions should be stated explicitly. Note that I am not suggesting that a different process should have been used, just suggesting a more detailed description of the judgement process. Results: As a navigation guide, I found that citing the resources within the text did not tell me everything I wanted to know. Also, the key resources are mixed in the reference list with exemplar reviews and other citations. A table outlining the recommended resources by category with hyperlinks to each resource would be helpful. As a reader, I would find it helpful for the authors to draw the distinction between the different types of resources cited. For example, some were synthesised, ‘best practice’ guidance intended for use by authors (such as the Cochrane or JBI Handbooks). Some were reporting guidelines (which often list good practice but are not intended to provide detailed guidance on the conduct of reviews). Some were primary methods studies (e.g. measuring the prevalence or impact of a method, which may describe or evaluate possible methods options but are not intended as guidance on the ‘best’ available methods for authors. All may be useful in different ways. As a brief summary of methods guidance, I would make the following suggestions: Methods: It would be helpful to include a brief description of your role in selecting and writing this summary of guidance, for example, stating briefly that key areas of methods were summarised, and how the methods to be highlighted were selected, especially where multiple and potentially conflicting sources were available (e.g. major methods applicable to all reviews, key differences between review types, expert opinion about interesting or important advice). It might be helpful to note that the summary of guidance presented is just that, a brief summary, and that authors who are new to systematic reviews should consult the more detailed documents for complete guidance. Results: It might be particularly helpful to note where there is disagreement in the literature in relation to particular areas of guidance. For example, comments that searching the grey literature is not useful for effectiveness reviews, or that risk of bias tools should be adapted for each review, which may be in disagreement with some of the major guidance handbooks and reporting guidelines. I’m not arguing about these specific items, just noting that some methods choices have been made by the authors, and it may be helpful to make this transparent. Minor recommendations Title and abstract: It would be helpful to briefly define the scope of this review, especially in the context of a journal such as F1000Research, which publishes in a wide range of scientific fields. For example, using a term such as ‘systematic reviews in health care’, and noting that the review looks at prevalence, prognosis, diagnosis and health interventions (and not other areas relevant to health such as environmental exposure). Competing interests: The authors could note any roles with Cochrane and the GRADE Working Group. These are not necessarily financial conflicts, but may be relevant to the authors’ decision to recommend guidance from these sources (which of course I agree with!). Results: In the first two paragraphs, you discuss some specific points in relation to resources available for diagnostic and prognosis reviews. As all review types appeared to cite both guidance handbooks and additional primary methods studies, I wasn’t clear on the point you were trying to make in this section. There were some key guidance documents that I would have expected to see, although there may be good reasons not to include them, such as: General guidance on systematic reviews from the US Institute of Medicine and the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination at the University of York (both are older documents, so this may be the reason). Tools to assess the risk of bias in reviews, such as ROBIS or AMSTAR, which may enable reflection by authors on their choice of methods, in a similar manner to reporting guidelines. Resources on the development of protocols (as distinct from study registration), such as Chapter 1 of the Cochrane Handbook. Guidance on synthesis in the absence of meta-analysis, such as Chapter 12 in the Cochrane Handbook and papers by (Campbell, McKenzie et al . (2020) 1 ) and (Popay, Roberts et al . (2006) 2 ). This may be relevant to synthesis, assessment of heterogeneity and GRADE. Guidance on network meta-analysis, such as Chapter 11 of the Cochrane Handbook and multiple journal articles, as well GRADE guidance and CINeMA. Two papers from the GRADE Working Group (published this week!) on the use of GRADE for diagnostic test accuracy studies published this week. In the text on risk of bias and Table 2, is it worth noting that the number of items in RoB 2 varies depending on the effect of interest and the included study designs? In Table 3, as there are more variations on the measures to combine (e.g. Ratio of Means), and statistical methods for meta-analysis of efficacy of interventions (including the inverse-variance method, which is mentioned for other types), could it be helpful to note in the table somewhere that these are common characteristics, not an exhaustive list? When discussing fixed effect and random effects models, it may be helpful to note that they differ in relation to assumptions and heterogeneity, as you mention something briefly about analysis using random-effects models later in the paper that relies on understanding this. On page 9, under “Efficacy of intervention reviews”, I think hazard ratios are listed in error against binary outcomes as well as time-to-event outcomes. Perhaps you meant risk ratios? In the section on assessing certainty of the evidence, it would be helpful to describe the GRADE approach in the first paragraph (it is currently named without description in the third paragraph). Discussion: I would also acknowledge under limitations of this review that the selection of resources and summary of guidance were informed by expert opinion, and that others may have selected different resources or made different recommendations. References: 1: I think there may be an error – should this be a reference to the 2019 edition of the Cochrane Handbook, rather than an older paper by Higgins in Cochrane Methods on RoB 2? I assume this based on its use in the Introduction as a general reference about review methods, and also on the availability of general Handbooks in para 2 of the Results. 20: could be based on the references to individual chapters, i.e. Deeks JJ, Bossuyt PM, Gatsonis C (editors), Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Diagnostic Test Accuracy. 63: It’s great to see the Spanish Manual GRADE cited. If I am correct, this is a translation of the 2013 GRADE Handbook (apologies if I am wrong). Would it be helpful to cite some of the more recent GRADE papers as well, as they reflect the most up to date guidance? I note you also cite the paper on using standard language to express GRADE, as well as the recent Cochrane Handbook Chapter, so perhaps this is sufficient. 