The manuscript by Caminsky et al. reviews the use of Information Theory (IT) based tools to predict splicing and splicing defects and their possible consequences on the matured transcripts. It is well written and well organized to guide the reader. Following an introduction covering the basics of the splicing mechanism and signals on the pre-mRNA used by the spliceosome to define the exonic and intronic sequences, the authors described the mathematics behind in silico prediction and then focus on the use of their tools (ASSEDA, SMC and Shannon pipeline) and their evolution over the past decade. They review the possibilities and limitations of such tools and compare them to other splicing prediction softwares (HSF, SSF, NNsplice, ESEFinder, RESCUE-ESE). Over the years, IT-based splicing predictions have made progress and the overall rate of predictions concordant with experimental validations is around 88%. It has thus become a valuable tool for geneticists and molecular biologists. The authors also list the most common mistakes made by researchers while using their tools, and the ways to avoid them. They also stress the difficulties in predicting the consequences of splicing defect in particular cases due to poorly defined ESE/ESS sequences, combinatorial effects of splicing regulatory proteins (SR proteins and hnRNPs) and large exonic sequence which contains a large number of cryptic donor and splice sites and thus their definition is dependent on the binding of these regulatory proteins. The manuscript is therefore of great importance for people that use such splicing prediction software as it presents their possibilities, limitations and the best way to report the results. Experimentally validated variants, associated with their predictions(should the authors properly report how the prediction was performed) will help to refine the tools. Such in silico tools are even more valuable in a genomic era where large number of variants are identified by deep sequencing (exomes, whole genome sequencing...) some of which being of unknown significance. Adding better splicing defects prediction (apart from the 2 bp most conserved in the natural splice sites) to the filters used in the prioritization pipeline of next generation sequencing projects should be considered. I therefore recommend the manuscript for indexation without reservations, if small minor issues listed below can be addressed. Minor issues : Figure 5 is not called in the text. Since the journal uses a numbered formatting style for the references, please add the number of the reference in sentences like Smaoui et al. 2004 described (page 17), since it is easier to find the given reference among over 260. In the supplementary table 2, in the column concordance (Y/N) there is in some cases a indicated whose meaning is not clear. 