The authors used CPRD records to inform a multistate model on progression of kidney disease. They appropriately considered that there could be measurement error and allowed for this to some extent. They used outcome variables that have not been validated for incident analyses in CPRD(dialysis/transplantation). The underlying model for 'true' but unobserved kidney disease assumed that kidney disease could only get worse over time but not better - but this is not supported by actual data which suggest that transient decreases can improve over time and may not necessarily need to be permanent (though such changes may be a risk marker for later decline). Here the authors should discuss more about the chronicity assumption within the CKD definition and how they parametrised this in their data. Then there was a model for measurement error, but this seems to be a static model, i.e. assuming that measurement error does not vary over time - did I understand this correctly? Because over time in the UK the way creatinine gets measured and reported has changed dramatically during the study period. This change in reporting of calibrated creatinines in effect hides progression over time when crude analyses are used as different labs shifted to calibration and reporting of creatinine to IDMS at different points in time - thereby shifting the entire creatinine distribution down by 5% over the years prior to 2014 (i.e. hiding a decrease in kidney function over time). Did the authors recalculate eGFR from the creatinines (which then requires some thought about time-dependent measurement error which varies by lab and time) - or use reported eGFRs (which then means they lost a lot of measurements based on thresholds with informative missingness as eGFR does not get reported uniformly - some labs only report values in a range of 15 and 60, others report up to 90ml/min/1.73m2)? Dependent on whether the authors used creatinine or eGFR they have discussed further biases in their design and explicitly allow for such biases in their model. Then there is the overall study design which is a somewhat odd cohort as it is dependent on having three or more eGFR (or creatinine?) tests and that is not representative of the general population - the survey and CPRD validated prevalence of reduced eGFR in the UK population is about 6% and here the numbers are much higher (3-7 fold depending on albuminuria category) simply because these represent an enriched sample as GPs had a reason to test more than once but indeed three times. Does this enriched sample really represent 'a model for kidney disease progression'? The authors should discuss this and whether people who should have been tested but weren't tested may be a high risk group. The sample here represents a group of patients who engage with the health service but the people who progress in truth may be not fully captured. This needs to be discussed more. There were real financial reasons for testing e.g. annual testing for diabetes (started in 2004), and less so for other illnesses, but risk factors for CKD determine testing rates and especially repeat testing as reported by the UK National CKD Audit, and there is some understanding from this audit how testing schemes are carried out. So I would disagree with "A major strength of this study is that we have taken a very large and unselected sample of patients from a database that has been shown to be representative of the wider UK population" as stated in the discussion - this is a selected sample and not representative of what happens overall in terms of kidney function decline as not all are tested the same way. I would have stratified by underlying comorbidity and not simply adjusted for it. I totally agree with the authors about the selective loss to follow-up with loss of people who are managed by other specialities including renal in secondary care. Overall this is an interesting analysis, but more work is needed to convince me that this model should be used for economic modelling. 