This paper by Combs and Eisen examines spatially patterned gene expression in Drosophila embryos in response to mutation of key developmental transcription factors. The unique contribution of this work is the scale of their measurement — mRNA expression assessed genome-wide in slices along the anterior/posterior axis of individual embryos. Typically, genome-wide measurements are not spatially resolved; conversely spatially resolved measurements are typically only made for a handful of genes at once. This technique was described and validated in a previous paper. Here they apply it to characterize the response to mutations of bicoid, zelda and hunchback. The dataset is valuable and the underlying data collection is well described. There results also point to a number of interesting conclusions. In particular, it’s notable that despite being bound widely across the genome, knocking down these TFs produces only modestly affects patterning on average. It is also notable that Bicoid knockdown can affect patterning in the posterior, where it is not expressed. My suggestions for improving the paper are below. The introduction does not introduce a biological question that they will be able to address with their method, but instead focuses on the novelty of the measurement. They state that “Given the crucial roles of each of these factors in spatial patterning, we expected that perturbing their levels would lead to widespread direct and indirect effects on patterned genes.” It would be useful to expand on this hypothesis in terms specific to the data they will collect and how they will analyze it. Which features of the data would confirm or refute this hypothesis? What will they find interesting or surprising? For example, they do some of this in the discussion. “Our initial expectation was that there would be many more ways to fail to properly pattern expression, and that different mutations would have different average effects from each other.” Can their expectation be made more specific given the diversity of patterns they can detect in WT embryos? Why did they have this expectation about the average effects when so many genes are unpatterned? Bringing some of the more interesting points in the discussion to the introduction to frame the paper would motivate the reader to understand the various analyses. The quality, reproducibility and structure of the data should be more explicitly discussed, and used to explain their choice of analytical strategy. For example, they justify their use of the Earth Mover’s Distance to examine expression patterns: “Because there are a different number of slices both between the wild type and mutant flies, and between replicates of the mutant flies…” Does this sentence mean that there are more slices per embryo for a WT versus a mutant embryo, or that there are in aggregate more mutant slices than WT slices (because they measured more mutants)? How does this impact their choice of analyses? Given the structure of the data and its variability, what are the limits of analysing effects on single genes (which would be more familiar to developmental biologists)? Simple language could help more readers appreciate the utility and limits of their data for future analyses. In addition, a narrative description of the EMD would be helpful. The authors state : “...we decided to use Earth Mover’s Distance (EMD) to compare patterns[20]. This metric captures intuitive notions about what kinds of patterns are dissimilar, yielding higher distances for dissimilar distributions of RNA, and zero for identical distributions.” This states that the range will go from 0 (identical) to “higher” (dissimilar) but does not justify their use of this metric. It would be useful to explain the value of this choice of metric over available alternatives. The figure legends and titles could be more informative. In general, the legends state only what is depicted and does not point the reader to the most relevant comparisons. While this isn’t strictly necessary, it can help readers who are unfamiliar with the particular type of plot used. Figure 6 refers to panels A - D, which are not labeled in the figure. The legend of Figure 7 is a single sentence stating “Each embryo is normalized separately.” In some cases, the grammar of the titles is difficult to parse. For example, the title of Figure 4 is: “Distributions of patterning differences show that mutants have wide-spread subtle patterning effects and more genes with large patterning differences than replicates.” The clause of this sentence is unclear. The title of Figure 5 is similarly difficult to parse. 