This manuscript assesses the retrospective findings of 8 expert reviewers in assessing ultrasounds reported by 7 ultrasonographers who recorded visualization of both normal postmenopausal ovaries in 89% of scans in the United Kingdom Collaborative Trial of Ovarian Cancer Screening (UKCTOCS). The study set included 357 examinations from 349 women and 1,871 randomly chosen scans reviewed by these ultrasonographers selected from a one-year period in the trial. The main aim was to assess whether the interpretation of bilateral visualization of normal ovaries is reliable, comparing original reports to retrospective expert review. Data were analyzed using a bivariate probit random effects model with outcomes of bilateral visualization versus not. Notably, normal postmenopausal ovaries may be quite small and the average age of women in UKCTOCS was about 60 years. The data show poor reliability across measures: bilateral visualization for original reviewers showed a mean of 67%, with a range of 47.6%-86.5%; expert results ranged from 47.3%-88.3%. Agreement among expert reviewers was also modest. The authors conclude that further research is needed to develop reliable quality control metrics for transvaginal ultrasound. It is unclear how much expert reviewers knew about methods for assembling the study set and other details, which may have influenced interpretations. The study did not include a random sample of scans from the trial to serve as “distractors” or to provide a reference for comparison, and reliability data were not compared with external standards, such as measurements of ovaries that may have been removed later, CA 125 levels or rare cancer outcomes. External reviewers who were uninvolved with UKCTOCS may be of interest and possibly could be achieved via a web-based approach, at least for a subset. This study in combination with prior reports from UKCTOCS (e.g. Stott et al and Sharma et al) provides a composite picture of the performance of ultrasound in the trial; however, the generalizability of the current study is difficult to assess, given the unusual method of scan selection and the engagement of reviewers who were intimately knowledgeable about the trial and perhaps aware of the design of this project. Irrespective of these concerns, the data from UKCTOCS suggest that ultrasound of normal ovaries among older women has limitations. Given that reviewers were experienced and specifically trained for the task at hand, there are additional unknowns about whether and how performance could be improved, and how much of reviewers’ performances reflect inherent limitations of ultrasound for assessment of ovaries and ovarian cancer screening. Bodelon et al 1 reported a high frequency of non-visualization of ovaries in the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian (PLCO) screening trial, with a tendency for individual women to have repeated non-visualization. Further, although non-visualization is likely a marker of smaller ovarian size on average, it is notable that non-visualization conferred at best a marginally reduced risk of developing ovarian cancer in PLCO. Analysis of serial ovarian volumes in PLCO suggested that enlargement occurs rapidly within one to two years of cancer detection, and therefore, would be unlikely to have meaningful impact on clinical outcomes. In a narrow sense, if ultrasound is to be used for ovarian cancer screening, then a better quality control metric than the frequency with which ovaries are visualized is needed. In a broader sense, this study and related literature call into question whether ultrasound imaging is useful in ovarian cancer screening, especially for high-grade serous carcinomas. To date, ovarian cancer screening and CA-125 has failed to achieve a reduction in ovarian cancer mortality. Although unproven, growing evidence points to the origin of many high-grade serous carcinomas, the most frequent lethal type of ovarian cancer, from the distal fallopian tube (fimbria), rather than from the ovarian surface epithelium. In contrast, other ovarian cancers (i.e. endometrioid and clear cell) may arise from endometriosis in the ovary and tend to remain organ confined for lengthier periods (present as stage I). Animal models of tubal cancer have shown that spread to the ovaries may accelerate disease progression (Perets et al 2 ), but many questions about the pathogenesis of serous cancers among women, including the sojourn time of disease development and the role of the ovary in promoting metastatic spread. These fundamental questions raise larger issues about the role of assessing the ovary as part of cancer screening and the potential of ultrasound to identify cancers at early curable stage. Greater knowledge of the pathogenesis of ovarian cancer, especially high-grade serous cancers, may pose a barrier to improved early detection. Larger issues could be addressed to place the results of the study in context. 