Sarfaz et al. report a rare (but probably it is not-so-rare) case of Kikuchi-Fujimoto lymphadenitis in a young adult. (disclosure: I just co-authored a recent case series on KFD). I am glad for this report to go out, as I suspect, based on my anecdotal experience, that this is not as rare as people think it is, but is probably under-diagnosed/under-reported. Seeing more reports as this in the literature may change conventional opinion. I have a few suggestions to improve the manuscript: The authors mention that testing for tuberculosis was done. I would suggest clarification as to why the IGRA was inconclusive. Was there a high background, or a failed mitogen testing. If the former -- this may be evidence for baseline inflammation (principally, IFN-gamma/Th1 inflammation) in the patient's blood at that time -- this is potentially important. If the latter, this may be due to shipping issues, or evidence for transient anergy or other immunosuppression. The authors say stains for acid fast bacilli were done and were negative. Was there a culture? Was a PPD checked? The authors state that histopathological confirmation of the diagnosis was made. Are microphotographs available for the reader themselves? The authors state that the patient has "high lymphocytes." The patient's absolute lymphocyte count (2000 / uL) is NOT high. "Epstein-Barr" is misspelled. While not necessarily needed, since the authors did talk about the different infections associated with KFD, it would be enlightening to see what infectious workup was done for this patient, apart from an IGRA and an AFB stain. With the suspicion of tuberculous meningitis, please clarify if anti-tuberculous therapy was started. The authors also state that the case from from "South East Asia, Pakistan." I know that many Pakistanis and Indians are taught that their country is in southeast Asia -- but that is not the usual convention outside of Pakistan or India. Southeast Asia is conventionally the 10 states of ASEAN plus East Timor and Papua New Guinea. I would suggest the authors use "south Asia", or just say "Pakistan" to avoid any ambiguity. 