The present paper concerns a relevant topic related to dentin reactions to dental caries lesions. However, the authors intention, testing accuracies of methods for detecting these reactions, could be valorized/stressed in this paper. I believe that it is important to readers to know how important is to go beyond in this topic. In addition, considering the rationale, the authors stated that only evidence for the detection of dentin reactions is qualitative. I would recommend taking care to avoid misunderstandings, since the methods tested were qualitative, but I suppose they are looking for figures about accuracy of these methods. I suggest clarifying that. Another point to be clarified is the use of microradiography as a reference method. In the text, authors mentioned that radiography with microscopic resolution (microradiography, MR) is considered as highly reliable gold standard for detecting variations in dentin mineral content." Is that an authors affirmation or is based on a previous background? Another aspect regarding reference methods is that the authors proposed to use the microradiography as gold standard, but, actually, they believed the microradiography was similar to other methods tested (according to the 3 rd objective). Why not choose an actual quantitative method for that? The rationale for that could be better developed in the introduction. Was that the idea of authors initially or was that a concept formulated a posteriori (after discussing and analyzing present findings)? Maybe, showing the reasons why opting for testing methods using a reference you suspect that is similar to other methods . I suggest these ideas could be explored in the Introduction. Concerning methodology, one point remained unclear for this reviewer. In the paragraph Histological sites were selected from the outer half of the dentin layer, including the area adjacent to the deepest enamel lesion; at least one dentin reaction type per sample was included where possible. Cases were included in the sample when two sites had the same type of dentin reaction detected by SM, while showing different types of dentin reactions when detected using MR. Thus, up to 6 histological sites were selected per sample, yielding a total sample size of 168 sites." it seems that only specimens in which there was some dentin reaction were selected. Is that true? If no, please, clarify that in the text and do not consider the next part. If yes, I believe this step could have led to spectrum of disease bias and selection bias, as well. If you try to detect the dentin reaction in a pool of histological sites, you tend to have a different performance than if you only selected sites in which the reaction is present. In addition, if you examined the teeth by one of the methods tested subsequently, you tend to favor this method in further examinations (because the selection was based on that). Based on these points, if you really selected only the sites with dentin reactions, I suggest including some information about those points in the Discussion. Regarding the results, I suggest including the confidence intervals to facilitate the comprehension of possible overlapping of marginal values. Besides, I would include some discussion about the reference standard used and the relevance of detecting this level of demineralization in clinical setting or other applications. If the purpose is choosing the best treatment to the patients, some caution should be had in inferring data about very precise methods for demineralization quantification (sometimes these differences could lead to no difference in clinical approach to be adopted). But, certainly, other purposes exist and the investigation is valid for them. Moreover, I would explore more deeply how the figures showed for methods performance impact on inferences (e.g. which is the contribution of testing predictive values instead of showing only accuracy. Considering these points, I suggest some caution in writing the title. The authors stated that If lateral spread does occur, dentin demineralization and sclerosis might occur at random in different sections of a same lesion. In addition, two sites located at different fossae on the same occlusal surface are expected to present independent dentin reactions. This is why we considered more than one section per tooth as independent samples. I believe that it could be true, but, to reinforce this assertive, I suggest testing the influence of the sampling in the present results or using a statistical approach that consider the clustering effect for the specimens evaluated. Finally, I would consider separating the analysis for dentin reactions related to caries lesions. Despite being reactions in different ways (desmineralization vs. hypermineralization), caries lesion formation and sclerotic dentin formation are not actually opposite actions. They involve different mechanisms of pathogenesis and not only the quantity of minerals. That is why I believe the purpose of identifying each one of these alterations has its importance independently of the other. This separation, in my point of view, may help the authors in explaining the findings of this study. Additionally, based on this observation, I would also suggest reinforcing that in other parts of this paper.