 Title Too long and tentative, be succinct and give a definite message to attract the reader. Aim Needs a clearer definition of the aims. Is it to define the challenges faced by parents of children with DDs, diagnosed or otherwise, as well as the how well genetic counsellors address these issues? Key aim is a justification for extending genetic counsellor’s role in the post genomic diagnosis period, make this very clear early on. Needs to consider and compere alternative models of family support. Structure Somewhat confused, needs clearly define and describe each topic and refrain from commentary therein, rather to have clearly subtitled commentary paragraphs where appropriate, either as a standalone section or at the end of each topic, and be consistent. Introduction Unnecessary detail on definitions of DD and ID, some of which is inaccurate. Should think about the audience who may not be familiar with jargon such as exome sequencing. It would help to describe typical referral pathways to clinical genetics, most referral for DD/ID are from paediatric neurology services who frequently request array tests and return results prior to visiting genetics. How will this change, if at all, as genome sequencing is commissioned into the NHS. IS there a different perspective in the US, Europe, elsewhere? The description of diagnostic measures and yields is misleading. The focus ought, to be, briefly, on the yield (actually 15-23%) of current methods in use in UK services (or wherever the author feels this is relevant). Clinical microarray was originally commissioned in around 2007 (NHS England), ie it’s not so modern. Then should describe potential impacts of integrating exome/genome sequencing with increased genomic diagnoses (around 70%) and how this will impact current GC practice. Needs a paragraph on the psychosocial imperatives of a genetic diagnosis/non-diagnosis and the role of GCs (or others) in counselling for this. Following this present a concluding paragraph outlining the commentary’s aims and objectives – and why there is, arguably, any need to change current practice. Genetic Counsellors and Genetic Counselling Genetic counsellors are not the sole providers of genetic counselling (needs also to acknowledge clinical geneticists have been counselling families for as long as GCs). The commentary should be cognisant of the role of nurse specialists who provide counselling, ie that genetic counselling is not the exclusive the domain of trained GCs. Since developments in genome technology are inevitably influencing developments in service design and delivery, in the UK and other countries, the author should consider their impact on GC roles in supporting families post-diagnosis - as pre-test counselling becomes increasingly obsolete as has been happening for several years due primarily to technological developments and their superior diagnostic accuracy. Argue whether any change in service delivery might be justifiable. Support The author should recognise and comment that a majority, probably vast majority, of families engage support from places other than clinical genetics, especially over the medium-long term. Genetics services role in supporting families is circumscribed and predominantly short-term. The nature of support is vaguely described, what exactly is the support given in a genetic counselling encounter (by a genetic counsellor or other practitioner) which would facilitate improved adjustment and where is the justification to develop a specialist post-test/post-genomic diagnosis support service as distinct from routine follow-up. A significant Would this be a genetic counsellor led service? How would this differ from current open-door policy where parents are able to access follow-up contact with the clinician/practitioner. The author could consider how signposting and information content and provision could be improved, particularly how to ensure support group contact is increased, training for rare disease support groups to tackle complexities associated with single gene diagnoses for DD/ID after exome/genome sequencing, as with 100k genomes. Arguably, well informed peer/third sector support is more accessible, immediate and broader in relevance than highly specialised genetic counsellors/clinical specialists and perhaps better placed to facilitate longer term ‘community’ support, family acceptance and adjustment. Psychological support for families with children with severe/life limiting illness, more generally, isn’t dependent on the disease specialist being trained to provide such additional ‘support/care’. Arguably this applies to aspects of rare disorders care ad management. Moreover, given the extent and complexity of mental health risks, impacts and needs of children with DD/ID, combined with the psychological and social struggles of their parents/carers, who experience high levels of anxiety, depression and trauma (as the author acknowledges), are there alternative models of ‘support’ which are more rigorous and wide-ranging than conventional genetics follow-up, for which mental health and voluntary sector providers would be better placed to provide? A clear definition of the purpose, content and contextual relevance of ‘support’ needs to be given, as forms the basis of the authors justification for a significant change in service. Conclusion This is a thought provoking commentary on a subject of increasing importance and at a time when genomic medicine’s relevance and promise to improve lives is subject to intense scrutiny, presented at a time when certain aspects clinical genetics services are experiencing perceived existential threats. Despite its shortcomings, need for structural correction and lack of coherent justification for what would be a significant change to current service provision which is counter to the evolving emphasis of genetic counselling training programmes, this kind of commentary is welcome and strongly supported. A revised version would be very welcome. 