The first point I would like to make (as it is mentioned in the abstract) is that TOUCH has not been introduced by Biogen as a method to mitigate PML risk, but as a method to inform patients and physicians of the PML risk and to monitor the patients for early signs of PML allowing for a better diagnosis and treatment. While some might argue that PML prevention should be the ultimate goal of TOUCH, it has not been designed to do that and one can hardly blame the program for not reaching a goal it has not been set up to achieve. The FDA approval of the JCV index should indeed be pursued, as the author is right in assuming that patients and physicians already use the JCV index in risk stratification decisions and the sooner the FDA rules on the biomarker, the better, so it can be applied during TOUCH in a coordinated and sensible way. The data concerning JCV viremia and PML risk does not support it as a risk biomarker and I would either downright state that or remove the paragraph. I agree with the author that the consequent monitoring and application of the JCV serology would be a step towards reducing PML incidence, as JCV serology is still the most sensitive biomarker with regard to PML development. However, I would personally say that it is up to patient and physician to either use the serology or choose not to. While the goal of maximum safety is a commendable one, I would argue that personal choice on whether a patient wants to know their JCV status is even more important. It would be a different situation, if the JCV serology had a high specificity, then the use of natalizumab should be restricted to anti-JCV negative patients. With a low specificity of ca. 45% it can be reasoned that a patient does not want to know their status, if they urgently need to use natalizumab anyway and prefer not be worried about their PML risk. While it would be a great data resource to know and monitor the JCV serostatus (and potentially index) of all TOUCH patients, to force a biomarker with low specificity on patients, who might choose not to use it, would have far-reaching consequences. The knowledge of their JCV serostatus has not prevented the occurrence of the 300+ PML, where it was available before, so I do not think that the mandatory use would help in this regard. The biomarker should, however, be available to all patients, who want to use it, so no PML cases develop, where the patient was unaware of their possibility to test for anti-JCV antibodies. To my knowledge, this is already the case. The TOUCH program should be updated in the future to include possible alternative biomarkers as well and serve as a monitoring platform. Having said that, I fully support the author’s with for a usable database, where physicians and researcher can access the data of the PML patients for research purposes to get a better handle on this devastating disease.