The manuscript evaluates the use of a combination of neurophysiological signals to detect movement intention in tremor patients. Multichannel scalp EEG, multi-array MEG and kinematic sensors were jointly analyzed in a trigger-initiated finger-to-nose movement task. The aim was to optimize detection of movement initiation. Four patients with upper limb tremor were studied. The paper is technically sound and the analysis methods are clear. However, some of the analyzed parameters are irrelevant, redundant or highly correlated, making it difficult to understand why they were all performed separately. I have the following major comments: EEG analysis of Beta-Alpha ratio was analyzed in 105 different combinations of frequency bands that were highly overlapping. The rational for this fine distinction of different frequency bands is not very clear given the existing (but not cited) literature on event-related synchronization/desynchronization (work by Pfurtscheller, for example). While not explicitly stated, I guess that these 105 combinations were done for each electrode. Studying the existing literature would have allowed the authors to restrict to the known electrodes and frequency-bands of interest. EEG-MEG coherence analysis: each EEG channel is correlated with one MEG channel. Figure 4 shows very similar results for each electrode. This is not surprising given that each EEG electrode measures part of the activity of the same generators in the brain. Volume conductance makes the different EEG signals highly correlated when referred to a common reference and thus they are all correlated with the MEG waveform. It is not clear whether the results are specific to tremor patients - a control group is missing. The results are not clear. One would have expected a conclusion that informs the reader which of the multiple parameters seem to be most promising. The presented probability trees are very abstract and do not allow one to make a conclusion on specific parameters. The Table at the end of the manuscript is not clear. What do the different numbers represent? The abstract should not be a verbatim copy of the Introduction. A better description of the literature on ERD in BCI is needed in the Introduction. Important work is missing. 