I acknowledge the Authors did revise their manuscript. Nevertheless, most of my previous comments remained not addressed in the revised version. The Authors should argue why they did not consider these comments. Please find below the comments, listed by sections, that should be addressed before submission of a new revised version. General comment: I believe it is really important at this point that the Authors deeply revise Introduction and Materials and Methods taking into account all the comments of the reviewers to ensure that the objectives of the study are clear, that the experience is scientifically valid and that the data analysis has been performed correctly. This is why I am waiting for a thoroughly revised version before providing additional comments on the Results and Discussion. Introduction: The flow of the Introduction may be improved. Thus, the first paragraph is not informative enough and too general. I suggest providing relevant figures about freshwater finfish production in Indonesia showing that this country is among the main producing country in the world. Some sentences could be added regarding the important role of freshwater aquaculture in the country by providing food and economic resources as well as employment in rural communities… Then the second paragraph should be focused on giant gourami as Authors did but maybe in a awkward way because the sentences said that giant gourami is important but this species accounts for only 7% of the national production. Even if it is true, giant gourami production represents now more than 100,000 tonnes/year of production and this production is growing (latest available production volumes and increasing rate per year should be provided). This species has high patrimonial and economic values (among the most expensive freshwater fish species in Indonesia). Instead of having the comparison of production volumes with other freshwater fish species, I suggest to the Authors to provide data and relevant arguments to highlight the importance of giant gourami in Indonesia. Most of the information should be available in the following references: FAO (2019) Cultured Aquatic Species Information Programme. Osphronemus goramy. Cultured AquaticSpecies Information Programme. Text by Caruso, D., Arifin, Z.O., Subagja, J., Jacques Slembrouck, J.and New, M. In: FAO Fisheries and Aquaculture Department [online]. Rome. Updated 26 September 2019 FAO (2020). FishStatJ: software for fishery statistical time series. FAO, Roma. Thus, the structure of the Introduction could be, with appropriate transition sentences: 1/ Importance of freshwater finfish aquaculture in Indonesia 2/ Giant gourami among the main freshwater commodities in the country 3/ Gaps of knowledge in gourami aquaculture 4/ Rearing structures for giant gourami aquaculture 5/ Objectives of the study In my previous report I highlighted the confusion between “strain” and “species” with those terms used interchangeably throughout the manuscript. Again, gurami sago is not a new species as the Authors said, it is a strain of giant gourami Osphronemy goramy. Here again, as I said on my previous report, I do not see the point to be focused on this strain in the Introduction because the findings from this study may be interesting for giant gourami in general. The strain used should be only mentioned in the Materials and Methods section. Materials and Methods: In the subsection “Ethical considerations”, I think the sentence “The animals used in this study did not suffer during the experiment” should be deleted because it is always difficult to assess suffering in fish. The most important information regarding ethical considerations was already provided. As said in the previous review performed by Reviewer 2, water parameter values should be included in a Table within the manuscript, not as additional data. Change “Sampling design” by “Experimental procedures” In this subsection, when the origin of the fish is provided I suggest saying that the fish belonged to the “Gurame sago” strain, moving the information regarding this strain from the Introduction. I suggest rephrasing the following sentence “Twenty-four fish samples were obtained from each concrete pond, floating net cage and earthen freshwater pond. 10% of the fish were sampled every month for each aquaculture system, due to giant gourami is sensitive to handling.” to “Twenty-four fish were sampled monthly from each concrete pond, floating net cage and earthen freshwater pond. The sample size and sampling frequency were selected in order to sample 10% of the total number of fish for each rearing structure while limited stress for the fish caused by handling.” I am not sure to understand how the “Waste load of feed” and “FCE” were evaluated since they require to be able to quantify the feed ingestion, right? I do not know how such an estimation can be performed in the tested rearing systems. The Authors should clarify this point already highlighted in the previous report. For the data analysis, assumptions of ANOVA (normality and variance homoscedasticity) should be tested and met on residuals, it should be clearly indicated in the manuscript. “Levine’s test” should be corrected by “Levene’s test”. “One-way ANOVA was used to analyze the effect of each treatment”, effects on what? The Authors should be precise regarding the data analyzed through ANOVA. I guess all of them did not meet the assumptions for using parametric ANOVA. In the same section, the Authors said they used discriminant analysis to examine grouping of the rearing systems using water quality parameters but the terms “Principal Component Analysis (PCA)” were used in their response to the reviewer comments that are not referring to the same statistical approach. The actual analysis performed should be clarified and better described in the data analysis section by explaining potential data transformation prior to the analysis, how the principal components have been selected… Figures and Tables As I said in my previous report, the Authors should provide visible standard deviations values and statistical differences in the Figures when it is appropriate and better axis scale in order to improve data readability. For allometric relationships, p-values for model estimates should be provided. Overall, the Authors should pay special attention to provide revised Figures allowing them to clearly visualize each data. Again, water quality parameter values should be provided in a Table within the manuscript. 