 Relevant reviewer expertise : conformational properties of carbohydrates, especially puckering of 6-member rings; Linux; scientific computing, especially molecular modeling and the proper communication of simulation methods; communication of technical information to interdisciplinary and non-specialist audiences; some biochemistry of carbohydrates. Article summary : The authors present a pair of software tools, Tessellate and Montage, for the analysis of ring conformations (typically referred to as ring pucker). The first tool, Tessellate, analyzes data containing coordinates of atoms bonded cyclically. The output of Tessellate can be processed by Montage to produce visual representations. Review summary : Overall, the article is acceptable and generally well written. The tools described are likely to be useful to persons studying ring conformations. But, a few points need to be addressed before it should be considered complete, and the article would be enhanced by some other modifications. Attention to these points is required : Provenance information should be provided for the simulation data. That the data are made available is very good, but readers also need to know where it came from. It is important that readers be able to determine the extent to which the data should be considered only as illustrations or whether they can be considered as valid scientific data. A list of reporting requirements for simulation data is recommended near the end of “Carbohydrate force fields”, available at: Foley et al 1 . If the data are from a separately published, peer-reviewed paper, it is sufficient to reference the paper. It is important to fully caption figures. A listing the meanings of all the pucker abbreviations used in the figures is essential. The table could be in the text or given as a key in one or more of the figures. This is for persons out of field as well as experts who are simply from another branch. For example, I do not know what UAP means; someone who has not studied the subject would be very lost. I expect that the meanings are all in referenced papers, but it is kind not to make readers consult references simply to understand such a significant element in a figure. Include addresses, and references in the text, for all websites, software and databases listed, even the ones that ‘everyone knows’. For example, although PDB is defined in the abbreviations section, there is no indication to a user how to find the Protein Data Bank. Also, VMD is referenced in a table, but it should be referenced at its first mention in the text as well. There might be other similar instances. Notes about the figures: The graphs need better titles. A title like “Tessellate: Pucker series for five” can be made sense of after some thought, but one has to look around a moment to realize it means a five-membered ring, as opposed to a 5 nanosecond simulation or some such. Also, since the whole paper is about Tessellate and Montage, it is not necessary to include the word Tessellate unless it is being compared to something else. A title like “Pucker results for a five-membered ring” would be better. Please explicitly say somewhere that you are assuming a constant puckering amplitude. A five-membered ring requires two parameters, a six-membered ring requires three, and so forth. Related to that, the phrase “Numeric Pucker 1D” in Figure 2 is not defined. The x-axis for the top graph in Figure 2 says “Time or sequence index.” Which is it? If it is a time, what is the unit? Increase the font size on the axes where they are very small. I would make them at least the size of the title of the first graph in Figure 2. Attention to these points would enhance the paper : A little reorganization in the Methods section would make the article more accessible and possibly open the tools up for a wider audience. In particular, the subsection titled Implementation is confusing. It starts with a prerequisite (use Linux), which probably goes in the Operation section. Then, it lists a number of features. While the analysis method used for each feature is also described, which is very good, I think the section would be better titled “Available Analytical Protocols” or even “Features”, and the line about Linux removed as it is made clear in Operation . In cases like those presented in Figure 4, I would find it more useful to present the data as a fraction or percentage rather than raw counts. But, this is merely my opinion and recommendation. It is certainly unreasonable to expect every paper to reference every other paper with any relevance, but you might take a look at one that I have considerable knowledge of, “BFMP: A Method for Discretizing and Visualizing Pyranose Conformations”, available here: Makeneni et al 2 . For that paper, we spent a lot of time thinking of ways to communicate information about pucker in 6-membered rings, and I think we came up with some nice graphical methods. You might consider including some of them regardless whether you like the classification scheme. 