In HD and other neurodegenerative disorders involving the accumulation of misfolded protein, ER stress and the activation of UPR have been implicated in pathogenesis, although the extent to which it contributes to neuronal cell death is still unclear. In this paper, the authors employ a bioinformatic approach to show that the unfolded protein response (UPR) is activated in a variety of human and animal Huntington’s disease (HD) models. It is noteworthy that the authors also demonstrate that the upregulation of the UPR genes is most likely a direct response to UPR activation by analyzing the promoter regions of these genes for the binding sites of the UPR transcriptional activators ATF6 and XBP1. Moreover, the authors also identified sets of genes that provide a potential link between both UPR and HD and between UPR and apoptosis. Pathway enrichment analysis was also used to identify functional pathways activated by the common set of upregulated UPR genes. In addition to the expected pathways associated with UPR (e.g. PERK-regulated gene expression and ATF-activated genes), the authors also identified components of the immune system, neurotrophin signaling, and diabetes. Interestingly, there is evidence in the HD literature that all three of these latter pathways are affected in HD. This work is a good example of the power of using a systems biology approach to provide a fairly comprehensive analysis of UPR activation in HD. The authors are appropriately cautious in emphasizing that their results do not prove that the pathways and relationships between pathways that they have identified all contribute to HD pathogenesis. However, their results provide an excellent guide for further experimental studies, and the authors’ development of a publicly accessible web site for the retrieval and visualization of their UPR-associated gene expression data in HD will be an important tool for the field that will facilitate these future studies. Minor comments: In the introduction, the authors mention that although HTT is not located in the ER, there are there are several potential mechanisms by which mutant HTT could induce ER stress (impairment of ERAD, dysfunctional vesicular trafficking, and altered ER calcium homeostasis). Atwal et al., (2007) and Atwal and Truant (2008) have shown that there is a more direct link between HTT and ER stress. In their work, they show that the N17 domain of HTT is a stress-sensitive ER association domain, and that the expanded polyQ stretch in mutant HTT perturbs the release of mutant HTT from ER and its translocation of HTT into and out of the nucleus in response to cell stress events. p.7, 1 st paragraph: “…UPR has been also associated with the suppression or degradation of a substantial number of genes…. Do the authors mean: …UPR has been also associated with the suppression or degradation of a substantial number of genes or gene products? To account for the differences in differential UPR gene expression changes that were observed among the different HD mouse models, the authors suggest that differences in the HTT transgenes and their expression levels among the models could be responsible. In addition, the different genetic backgrounds of the models can contribute to the variability. In future studies aimed at studying the role of the length of mutant HTT’s expanded polyQ stretch in UPR activation, the authors may also want to consider evaluating CHDI’s publicly available transcriptome data obtained from the cortex and striatum of 6-month old knock-in HD mouse models expressing wild-type or mutant Htt alleles with different CAG repeat lengths. 