The authors present FIrST, an approach for predicting promoter activity from sequence, which won one of the DREAM6 challenges. FIrST is using only simple sequence features in a limited range (100 bp) upstream of the translation start site for making its predictions, which distinguishes it from several other approaches in this field. Prediction results are convincing and the method appears to be sound. However, currently the method is not described detailed enough. In addition, I have a few further major and minor concerns regarding the current version of the manuscript: Major comments: In the list of features described in section "Feature extraction", some seem redundant to me. For instance, the trinucleotide parameters for bendability are just computed from the k-mers for k=3. Also nucleosome binding prediction was based on trinucleotide preference. Please explain why it may be useful to also include those 3-mer-derived features in addition to the 3-mers themselves. The description of methods in section "Machine learning model exploration" is too coarse. Please provide more detail on the SVMs, linear regression, and regression trees employed. It also remains unclear if the scales of features are normalized somehow, before their values are provided to the SVM. No details are given on the selected 3-mers and 4-mers (Table 1). Please provide a list of the specific k-mers selected by FIrST. It may also be reasonable to discuss potential biological reasons for their importance (as partly covered for TATA-boxes on page 6). Considering Fig. 3, I wondered if the difference in deformability may be related to transcription initiation. Or, stated differently, might we observe an ever clearer signal if all sequences (and their deformability profiles) would be aligned by the transcription start site (TSS) instead of the TrSS? One idea in the same direction, which could contribute to the novelty of the manuscript, would be to evaluate similar profiles (of sequences aligned to TSS or TrSS) for all features found to be informative by FIrST. For instance, one could expect to see something like general fluctuations of G/C content, or the TATA-box in 4-mer profiles as a spike approx. 35 bp before the TSS. From my perspective, this might improve the novelty of the manuscripts and the interpretation of features. Minor comments: The data from the DREAM6 challenge only consider a special subset of genes (ribosomal genes) and only in yeast. It is unclear if the features derived by the authors' method would also be informative for higher eukaryotes. I understand that this question cannot be finally answered from the DREAM6 data, but the authors might comment on this issue. Figure 1B remains a bit unclear. In the caption and the main text, the authors explain that they use non-overlapping 100bp sub-sequences. However, from the figure it rather seems that they consider upstream sequences of 300 bp, 200 bp and 100 bp (and the full promoter sequence) relative to the translation start site. Please clarify. In section "DREAM6 challenge data" of "Methods", the authors refer to "the sequence 1200 bp upstream of a gene", where "upstream of the translation start site" (as in the remainder of the text) would be more specific. In section "Feature extraction", the authors explain that "each promoter sequence was divided into 100 bp non-overlapping windows", while in the previous section they explain that the full 1200 bp sequences do not extend over the nearest gene. From my understanding, this may result in some of the sequences being shorter than 1200 bp, and their length might not be dividable by 100. Please explain how such cases are handled. At the end of section "Validation of model by DREAM6 consortium", the authors explain that "the overall score was defined as the product of the four P-values", whereas later they explain that -log 10 of the geometric mean of the p-values was used as the overall measure. Although bot definition are equivalent with respect to the resulting ranking, I would suggest to provide one consistent definition of the overall score. From the manuscript it did not become fully clear if the TA-tracts (also termed poly(dA-dT) tracts in some parts of the manuscript) are tracts of poly "A or T" or tracts of poly "AT"-dinucleotides. In section "Error profile of SVM promoter activity model", the authors explain that natural promoters had (slightly) lower activity than synthetic promoters and that the prediction error of the SVM is lower for natural promoters. However, I did not get the idea, why this should explain that low activity genes had larger prediction errors. In section "Error profile of SVM promoter activity model", the authors explain that one reason why FIrST did not perform well for synthetic promoters is that most mutations had been introduced outside the 100 bp range considered by FIrST. However, this reasoning partly contradicts the claim of the authors that most of the transcriptional activity may be explained from the sequence in that 100 bp window. If this would truly be the case, mutations outside this range should have only minor effects. In the Discussion, the authors mention that TF binding motifs are 6 to 8 bp in length. While this may be true for several yeast TFs, it is not correct for eukaryotes in general and motifs may be wider than 10 bp. 