After a reassessment of the paper, and after reading the other reviewers comments and authors responses, I am still very skeptical about the interpretation on using relatively small fragments of the 16S rDNA to assign identities to the species level. The Ion Torrent sequences were at best 251 bp. While it is not clear what is the average pyrosequencing read length of the, we often cannot get more than 400 bp as the quality of base calling is significantly poor after 300 bp. I could not get which primers were used for pyrosequencing and therefore the read length for the pyrosequences (yes they indicated the primers used to amplify the entire 16S but which primer was used for the sequencing was not indicated; perhaps it was the 27F?). I would agree that it is possible for some of the sequences to be nearly identical to some reported pathogens, but the sequences were not shared or deposited in a public database so this reviewer (or the readers for that matter) cant confirm these results. This is important as the reported levels of pathogens in the feces was very high (70%), which will strongly suggest that these duck species are important emerging vectors of human disease. These claims have important public health implications and therefore more evidence will be needed to further substantiate this. It is also curious that the authors tried to make a link between duck feces and water risk exposure. The evidence here is also weak and is based on a few sequences that are shared by the two types of samples. Im assuming that there are other fecal potential sources impacting these waters; it is then possible that the primary vectors will be the other hosts. In general, there was an effort to add more fecal samples to the study which was a concern brought up by all the reviewers. However, the authors responses to the reviewers comments was not as comprehensive as I would have liked to see. Yet, there are still missing some pieces of information on the methods, and other information such as how many sequences they obtained, and how they arrive to the identity of environmental sequences that makes it difficult to evaluate this study. Again, by not sharing representative sequences it is difficult to know if they are referring to identities at the genus level and their interpretation has to do with genera that contain pathogenic species. It would be good to place the sequences within a phylogenetic context to further confirm the clades they belong to.