The manuscript entitled “A high dose of total recombinant FSH suppresses granulosa cell apoptosis and maintains oocyte quality in endometriosis: A cross-sectional study” - this study was conducted in 15 patients with endometriosis and 15 control patients without endometriosis. The draft is oversimplified with very preliminary results, and most data were published elsewhere. This study has a lack of novelty. The sample size was too small to interpret the results with a proper power. The sample size estimation to get a proper power should be performed before conduction of the study. Since the sample size is small, the baseline characteristics of patients with endometriosis should be described more clearly, such as BMI, duration of infertility, primary or secondary infertility, baseline FSH/LH/E2/P4, antral follicle count, AMH, or the revised American Fertility Society (rAFS) score, etc. Such information is basic and important. The stage of endometriosis could also be a confounding factor to affect the results. The size of endometriosis of ovary, unilateral or bilateral should also be mentioned. The title is interesting. However, their data didn’t support their title. The gene expression of BAX and BCL-2 is only an association in patients with endometriosis. There was no ex-vivo functional assay, such as comparing the apoptosis activity in granulosa cells from patients with endometriosis under different doses of recombinant FSH, to support the title of manuscript. Thereafter, the title should be considered to be rewritten. The conclusion section in the abstract should be rewritten. It was loosely organized and did not incorporate the title of this manuscript. Whether this was a retrospective or prospective study according to the statement in the methods section could not be determined clearly. Please describe it clearly. What are the diagnosis criteria of endometriosis in this manuscript, especially for clinical examination mentioned in the methods section? Besides, the grade of endometriosis should be illustrated. The authors collected follicular fluid during ovum pickup, but we did not see any data from the analysis of follicular fluid. Please describe the protocol of controlled ovarian hyperstimulation more clearly, including the medications used for COH, the method(s) of insemination, etc. It was not proper to interpret the data from two small groups as normal distribution. The goal of this study is not clear. One can not be sure if the authors tried to compare the results from endometriosis and non-endometriosis, or if they wanted to compare the dose effect of recombinant FSH in patients with endometriosis. Please make it more obvious. The basic characteristics of patients should be more detailed, including AMH and/or AFC, COH protocol, COH duration, medication for triggering, maximal E2 level, etc. In Table 4, the mean value of maturation index in the non-endo group is 1, but the range of maturation index is 0.25-1.00. Is the mean value correct? The results of this manuscript were different from previous studies, but the authors did not explain the possible reason for the different findings in the discussion section. They published similar studies in 2017. This manuscript is very similar to their previous studies. Thereafter, there were no new insights from this draft. 