This paper presents a valuable critical analysis of cost-effectiveness studies and highlights serious issues in relation to potential inefficiencies in funding for Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) treatment. As identified by the authors, heart disease is a significant area of expenditure for health in Australia and this paper contributes important information for policy consideration. The paper is well-written and raises a number of recommendations useful for general presentation of cost-effectiveness analyses in the literature. In particular, these recommendations are useful in terms of the quality of life measurement and the application of the CHEERS checklist. One interesting issue raised here – which could potentially be further explored - is in terms of high-level policy changes. All new procedures presented for listing on Medicare or the PBS necessarily undergo a rigorous process of evaluation, including assessment of cost-effectiveness evidence, which often includes commissioned modelling studies to apply international clinical findings for Australian scenarios. The economic evaluation requires comparison of the new technology or drug with the status quo (or best current alternative) to appraise the incremental cost-effectiveness for the specific population group defined in the submission. However the point raised here is an important one – that incremental benefits and costs in cost-effectiveness may not reflect the bigger picture if the underlying comparator is flawed. Nonetheless it is a much greater undertaking to address wider policy ramifications, particularly where evidence continues to accrue. (Notably the current MBS taskforce is endeavouring to address such challenges.) One major criticism however is that it is not made clear to the reader that the analysis specifically targets stable angina, which is a subgroup of CAD patients. In particular, the abstract suggests that the results apply to treatment of all CAD patients and hence the results are potentially misleading when considered across all patients with CAD. It is important to know what proportion of CAD patients present with stable disease (and hence are eligible for all three treatments (CABG, PCI, MT). The information is implicit since it is clear from the population group of each of the included trials that patients with acute disease have been excluded. The fairly recent RCT which provides the most enlightening data, has quite strict exclusion criteria, which lists a number of presentations. The conclusions of the review are valid, but the subgroup requires transparency. This leads to a second point, which questions the importance of the clinical diagnosis. NICE clinical guidelines recommend drug treatment for stable angina unless symptoms are not satisfactorily controlled, in which case interventional procedures should be considered. This suggests a value judgement in selecting patients for interventional care. Does this potentially present a continuum that has shifted over time? It is important to assess what proportion of the cited 57% increase in PCI has been for the treatment of stable CAD. A related query is whether the non-RCT studies were subject to possible selection bias. A fundamental question then arises as to whether the cost-effectiveness studies should stand apart from the clinical data. That is, if the clinical evidence is changing (and clearly the controversy around interventional procedures for stable disease reflects the growing evidence) – it may be most useful for the cost-effectiveness to be presented for the specific sub groups that are most controversial – for example based on the differential burden of ischaemia. Queries and comments: Reviews were excluded from consideration – were they considered for comparison of findings and were they scrutinised for potentially missed references? ‘..most of the .. papers did not examine medical therapy.’ Was this because they pertained to acute presentations or was medical therapy overlooked for stable presentation? I disagree with some of the statements made around usefulness for policy. For example the statement that presenting clinical complexities ‘does nothing to assist those wanting to make higher level resource allocation decisions’. Complexity may limit relevance in some cases, but if cost-effectiveness varies according to clinical diagnosis (and evidence supports this), then the heterogeneity may be an important consideration. Also, the statement referring to publications that consider only 2 treatments as not being useful to policy – if the policy decision relates to critical cases such as myocardial infarction or if it relates to a minor change to policy already in existence, then comparison of more than 2 options may not be relevant. Thirdly, non-Australian evidence may be appropriate if the clinical findings are relevant to an Australian population and Australian cost data can be applied. It may be in the wording of some of these statements, given the separation of higher level allocation decisions and those relating to small changes in resource allocation. However most policy decisions assess a well-defined intervention, compared to a current alternative, for a clearly defined patient group (which is necessary to prevent leakage), so commonly the detailed breakdown of cost-effectiveness provides critical information for those decisions. The paper provides an interesting supplement to the current clinical literature on the controversy around treatment of stable coronary artery disease. The discussion of the importance of policy-relevant evidence will inform future cost-effectiveness analyses of trials currently in progress. 