Dr. Madan has written an insightful and useful paper that can benefit writers in many fields of science. Grounding the papers theme in memory phenomena is clever. I suggest the article be approved with reservations. Here are my specific recommendations: Dr. Madan describes the "first mover advantage" (Newman, 2009): "a researcher publishing a modest paper on next years hot topic will accrue more citations than if they had instead published an outstanding paper on the current years topic." Dr. Madan suggests this may have to do with a primacy effect in memory. While this may be true, another obvious explanation for the "first mover advantage" is that the researcher simply misses the boat. Coming out before the wave means all those topical papers that will be published during the wave will cite you ---simply because its a new topic and your paper is published and there may be little in the area. If you miss the wave, you miss out on those citations. So this is less attributable to memory but more about timing. This is another explanation that might be worth noting. Under "be interesting" I would stress the importance of transparency in writing a bit more. In my opinion, better remembered articles are those that I understood enough to be able to mention to other colleagues and explain to them fully. If an article has either too much technical jargon, is too brief, or is too complicated (as you note), it wont be fully comprehended and unlikely to be retained (and cited--no one wants to cite a paper they dont understand for fear you are not citing it accurately). Dr. Madan touches on these issues but I feel they can be emphasized more, as there is sometimes a tradeoff between sounding interesting and being clear. Both are important but one should not sacrifice the other. I recommend after this sentence: "This phenomenon, known as the peak-ends rule , demonstrates that peoples memories of an experience are biased, with the ending being particularly important", that the author includes something a bit more concrete as a recommendation for capitalizing on recency. Perhaps it would be helpful for the author of a manuscript to summarize really clearly the main findings and implications of the study with a very powerful take-home message because that will be the last thing the reader remembers. I feel this is true for some of the other instances were the author draws on the memory literature in that more examples relevant to manuscript writing process would be helpful. The section on presentation specific advice is not quite as well developed as the section on manuscript writing. That is ok, in principle, since the papers main focus is on written work. However, I do find I take less away from that part of the paper. I may consider beefing it up a bit. One recommendation I have regarding poster presentations is that they should be prepared with two types of visitors in mind: Visitor A is someone who sought the poster out and wants the full explanation from the presenter and will follow along on the poster as the presenter is speaking. Visitor B is someone who is moderately interested in the poster and wants to be able to get the "gist" from it in only a few minutes. The poster should stand on its own so that if Visitor B just wants a reprint they would be able to figure out what the study was about with fairly little effort. Otherwise, the paper sounds great.