In this paper, Hunt and Chittka show that people who are better at a categorization task also tend to produce more "memory errors" on the DRM paradigm, in which 15 words are shown which are strongly associated with a non-presented word (which is then often (wrongly) recalled or recognized later by the participants). The experiment has been conducted properly (the issue of counterbalancing has been addressed by the priming re-analysis) and the results are clear, although the effect size does not seem large. The conclusions the authors draw from this result seem eminently reasonable, although they may go a bit beyond the immediate data. After all, they specifically picked a form of false-memory testing that relies heavily on the fact that words in a semantic category are tightly associated with each other. It is then not a great surprise that people who are good at keeping words from the same semantic categories together also show more memory errors. It might have been interesting to ask people to categorize on different criteria than semantic (e.g. based on the letters they contain). Even though this is still a test of finding odd words out in a group, it does not call on semantic categories... The introduction is probably setting up a bit of a straw man. I think false memories as discussed here should be limited to those in episodic memory. Even the DRM is an episodic memory task (recall the unique list youve just been presented with), which is influenced by semantic associations between words. Therefore, any discussion of selective pressures on memory accuracy should be based on episodic memory alone. And there are lots of debates about what episodic memory is for, and indeed whether accuracy is the most important part of episodic memories. False memories in episodic memories often come about by "intrusion" of more common events into a unique episode. If the common events are that common, the unique exception may not be important to remember and indeed may interfere with the (adaptive) application of a learned rule. So there may be many arguments against the idea that memory should always be accurate. Nevertheless, this does not take away from the data or the final conclusions of this paper.