 Review: The authors present the study protocol for an ongoing large deployment of Wolbachia- infected Aedes-aegypti mosquitoes in Rio de Janeiro and Niteroi municipalities in southeastern Brazil where Aedes- borne diseases, especially dengue, are common. The study design is a quasi-experimental study (QES) that allows the application of the controlled interrupted time series analysis to evaluate whether Wolbachia strategy is effective in this region. The manuscript is well written and the study, when completed, has great potential for evaluating the promising Wolbachia strategy for controlling Aedes -borne diseases. However, I have some concerns about this study and the ability of the interrupted time series method to infer reduction in disease burden if present: Main comments: Aedes-aegypti mosquitoes movement. First of all, the authors failed to indicate the strain of Wolbachia used in this study. Different strains of Wolbachia have different characteristics that enable them to invade the wild type population and establish themselves. The wMel strain was used in Townsville, Australia 1 and was claimed to be successful. However, with climate change and variability in temperature, some Wolbachia- infected mosquitoes with different strains, include wMel, cannot maintain their Wolbachia status 2 . Hence, even if the intervention works, an introduction of infected patients into such a population will result in an outbreak and all the gains from Wolbachia strategy would have been lost as the majority of the mosquitoes are now uninfected 3 . Figure 1 in the manuscript shows the map of the treated and untreated zones. These are adjacent zones, especially for the treated and untreated zones. Mosquitoes movement from untreated zone to treated zone could prevent Wolbachia invasion 4 and vice versa. Hence, and since this is a study that takes a few years, mosquitoes migration cannot be ruled out. Thus, the control zones (untreated) is not suitable anymore. The controlled interrupted time-series method. The authors stated that the reason for favoring quasi-experimental design (QED) over randomized controlled trial (RCT) was due to time constraints as stakeholders and funders wanted to scale-up the deployment of Wolbachia to accelerate the control of the emergent Zika virus in this region. However, in this set-up, to carefully randomize zones as treated or not should not take much time. In fact, since the incidence of Aedes-borne virus infections is similar between treated and untreated zones (Figure 2), that should be a motivation for randomizing the zones. I am thinking there are other reasons for ditching RCT. The authors should elaborate on this. For the controlled interrupted analysis, the authors plan to perform first, the descriptive analysis of the seasonal and inter-annual trends in the Aedes-borne infection notifications. It will be great if the authors are more specific about the types of descriptive analysis they intend to carry out. Also, a schematic of the expected trend in the notifications accounting for confounders will greatly help the protocol. Minor comments: Title The title indicated controlling “arboviral disease incidence”. The authors can be more specific if they change that to either “ Aedes -borne disease incidence” or something more specific. Abstract I think the clause in the fourth line will flow better if “ Aedes -borne diseases dengue, chikungunya and Zika” is changed to “ Aedes -borne diseases (dengue, chikungunya and Zika). Change “km2” to “km 2 ”. Methods Figure 2 shows the comparative incidence of dengue for the treated and untreated regions. What about Zika and Chikungunya that the study is trying to control too? I think this is a dengue control study that has the potential to control Zika and Chikungunya in these regions. It will be great if the authors make it appear so. As it is, it seems to be a study deliberately targeting all the three Aedes- borne diseases. 