 In this study the authors have evaluated for the first time the expression of human β defensin (HBD)-3 and LL-37 in cutaneous lesions of KS and showed that these antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are significantly up-regulated in KS skin lesions as compared with skin of healthy controls. The results are of potential interest to the understanding of KS pathogenesis, however there are several points that should be addressed which can improve the work. 1. The authors should explain why they excluded from the immunohistochemical evaluation macular lesions considering that these lesions are the one with the highest degree of inflammatory infiltrate, and given the role of the peptides in inflammatory skin diseases. 2. It is not clear how the scoring for the immunohistochemical analysis was calculated (see Material and Methods section). In particular it seems that a total epidermal score (ranging from 0 to 7) was obtained by the addition of a score representing the extension of the expression detected in the four epidermal layers with an intensity score, which represented the average intensity of positive epidermal cells. Then the percentage of positive cells is calculated, and a grading from 0 to 4 was assigned. Finally, the authors stated that, because KS lesions frequently showed significant intraspecimen heterogeneity, a score was calculated in which the percentage positive rating was multiplied by the intensity rating. Each component of the lesion was scored independently and the results were added up, so how were all these scorings were combined? Which are the scores indicated in Table 1-3? Finally, it seem that the scoring was done in the open and this may represent a bias. 3. In the Table summarizing the “Demographic, clinical and immunohistochemical scoring of HBD-3 and LL-37 of studied population” it would be important to indicate also the patient clinical stage. 4. Figure 1: arrows should be included in panels to point out positive cells, particularly in panels E and I. In addition, in order to correctly compare the expression of LL37 in plaque and nodules, panel I and J should have the same magnification. 5. The authors stated in Discussion that the expression of AMPs was increased with progression of KS lesions from plaque stage to nodules. However, to support of the possible role of these AMPs in progression of KS lesions from stage III and IV patients should be studied. 6. The manuscript does not cite a paper reporting that human beta defensin-2 (HBD-2) is expressed by endothelial cells present in Kaposi’s sarcoma lesions (but not by endothelial cells present in normal tissues), and that inflammatory mediators induce HBD-2 expression by normal endothelial cells Kawsar et al. (2010) . This citation should be included in the manuscript and results discussed. 