 21/08/2020: Editorial Note Since the publication of the peer review report, it has been brought to the editorial team's attention that some Competing Interests had not been declared. As part of F1000Research's editorial policies, reviewers are required to declare any competing interests, including financial competing interests, which may influence their peer review report. We have since confirmed with Dr Nahler that they have the following competing interests, which have been added to their peer review report: Gerhard Nahler works as independent consultant. Among others, he is consultant of the non-profit NGO “ICANNA”, the EIHA and a number of pharmaceutical industries. In order to understand the counterstatement of Kruse and Beitzke (2020) it is necessary to read the article of Lachenmeier et al. (2020 1 ) first. 1) The primary message of Kruse and Beitzke in their Abstract is that no proof for putative side effects/adverse effects caused by “CBD-products” is provided by Lachenmeier et al. (2020), nor that such side effects are caused by THC. 2) The second point is a lack of clarity about the term “THC” used by Lachenmeier et al. Is it used exclusively for the psychotomimetic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (?), the non-psychotomimetic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid (?), for a mixture of both substances such as occurring in hemp tea (?), or also for an analogue, delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol (?) which is a minor byproduct with lower psychotomimetic properties in hemp extracts? 3) The third point concerns the “safety” of commercial CBD-products analysed by Lachenmeier et al. , in relation to the content of THC. Here, Kruse and Beitzke criticise unrealistic assumptions concerning the calculation of the supposed daily intake of CBD-products and a lack of clarity of the table 2 in the main part of Lachenmeier’s article (concentrations of cannabinoids are communicated by Lachenmeier et al. only as a separate supplemental material; without, the reader cannot verify the assumptions of Lachenmeier et al. ). Ad 1) According to the title, the article of Lachenmeier et al. (2020) focuses on “ side effects of cannabidiol (CBD) products ” caused by ” contamination ” with THC. As CBD products vary widely in their composition beyond CBD as main ingredient, a more detailed characterisation of products, their composition and various other phytocompounds, as well as a comparison to the characteristic side effects of the two pure substances, CBD and delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (in short THC) would help to better understand the differences. In Lachenmeier’s article, various CBD-products based on hemp extracts or flowers, often consumed as “supplements”, are addressed, therefore containing not only CBD but a number of other phytosubstances, such as delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (in short THC) among numerous other natural byproducts in varying ratios. The nature and quantities of these other byproducts depend, among many others, on the extraction process and may also include the respective acids CBDA and THCA which have different properties compared to the decarboxylated substances CBD and THC. Lachenmeier’s article focuses therefore on ill characterised “CBD-products”. As a uniform “CBD-product” does not exist, products likely vary in their activity and side effect profile. The statement of Lachenmeier et al. on page 6 “ our results provide compelling evidence that THC natively contained in CBD products by contamination may be a direct cause for side effects of these products ” is not supported by a listing of such side effects, including their frequencies and/or the respective literature. The title of Lachenmeier’s article assumes that side effects occur with CBD-products and the reader might expect that this will be further addressed in the article; however, this is not the case. The only “side effects” reported read as follows (section “Introduction”): “ some pediatric studies in epilepsy patients with orally administered CBD also reported adverse effects such as drowsiness and fatigue that could be explained by pharmacological properties of THC rather than of CBD (8–10 ).” A further, more detailed description of the nature of side effects supposed to be caused by THC in CBD-(food) products is missing. This is clearly criticised by Kruse and Beitzke. Patients in the articles referenced by Lachenmeier et al. received either extracts (Ref.8, a US parent-survey) or pure CBD (CBD/Epidyolex of GW, purity ~99% with ≤0.1% THC) for treatment-resistant epilepsy and in daily dosages exceeding in some cases 25mg CBD/kg body weight. These subjects received, however, antiepileptic drugs in addition, known to cause, e.g., sedation. Therefore, this can hardly serve as reference for side effects of CBD-products (notably food-products, hemp extracts) taken by a normal, healthy population as is addressed by Kruse and Beitzke. Indisputable differences are therefore the product itself (pure CBD vs. mixtures of phytocompounds), the population (patients vs. healthy individuals) and the intake (regular, high concomitant therapeutic doses vs. low dose, often taken occasionally). Although this would be of considerable interest, the reviewer is unaware of any systematic evaluation of side effects supposed to be related to CBD-containing, hemp-derived food products. On the contrary, CBD has been described to reduce side effects of THC as has been commented by Kruse and Beitzke. In the article cited (Zuardi et al. , 1982 2 ) a mixture of CBD with THC (ratio 2:1) attenuated anxiety reactions caused by THC. In hemp, the ratio of CBD:THC is much higher, typically around 20:1; such a modified ratio may also have modified effects which can be further influenced by other phytocompounds. Pure CBD seems to be safe; after excluding studies in childhood epilepsy, the only adverse outcome associated with CBD treatment was diarrhoea (Chesney et al. , 2020 3 ). In the EFSA report (EFSA, 2015 4 ) the lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) of 2.5 mg Δ9-THC/day, corresponding to 0.036 mg Δ9-THC/kg b.w. per day, was derived from “ observed central nervous system (CNS) effects (i.e. slight euphoric effects), as well as the increase in heart rate ” [according to a more recent review, “a dose of 7.5 mg (THC) did not affect heart rate or blood pressure ” (WHO, 2018 5 )]. It has to be reminded that the effect of THC on the heart rate is dose-dependent and transient, and disappears after repeated administration. Whether a slight euphoric effect is “ adverse ” or not may be disputable and still depends on the situation. Drowsiness or fatigue is uncommon with very low doses of THC. Ad 2) Although not explicitly stated, “THC” is the psychotomimetic delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. If the term is used for “mixtures” this may cause misunderstandings. This may have been the case when Lachenmeier et al. refer to hemp tea, even if it is a common analytical procedure to exhibit the sum of THC + THCA as “THC” for forensic reasons. In addition to request a discriminate use of the term “THC”, Kruse and Beitzke address also in their counterstatement the aspect of an appropriate “labelling” and of mandatory “industry standards” for CBD-products in order to limit a negative impact by “black sheeps” on the reputation of the whole hemp industry. This is highly welcome in the interest of the scientific community, and would be a considerable step forward as it makes discreditation of CBD-products and of the hemp industry less likely; this is clearly encouraged by Kruse and Beitzke. Although not explicitly mentioned as such by Kruse and Beitzke, it is obvious that a correct declaration of the content should not be restricted to the recommended daily consumption and the amount of CBD. Ad 3) In table 2 of Lachenmeier’s article, all samples for which " THC LOAEL “ are marked in red (17 out of 40 samples); of these 17, seven samples*) (41%) are “hemp teas”. As this is a notable percentage it deserved a closer look by Kruse and Beitzke. The calculation of the THC-exposure after consumption of tea made from hemp flowers and/or leaves by Lachenmeier et al. is misleading: First, cannabinoids are almost water-insoluble, therefore an extraction of the total amount of THC contained in 8g of dry herbal substance by hot water – as has been assumed in Lachenmeier’s article - is impossible. Even when drug-type cannabis was used for preparation of a tea, the concentration after 20 minutes of boiling (which is not common practice for preparing tea) was 0,043 mg THCA/mL und 0,01mg THC/mL (Hazekamp et al. , 2007 6 ) or 1.0 to 2.4mg THC per liter according to others (Giroud et al. , 1997 7 , cited by Hazekamp et al. , 2007). Consumption of two cups of tea, prepared as usual by pouring hot water on dry herbal substance and simmering for about 10 minutes, would normally not result in an uptake of THC exceeding the amount of the lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL). This is an important objection made by Kruse and Beitzke. The second, minor overestimation concerns the amount of 8g of dry herbal substance consumed per day. Regular tea bags usually weigh 1.5-2 grams; 8g correspond to 4 to 5 cups of tea per day; this seems to be a rather high consumption, above the average. (The exposure by other CBD-products than hemp tea has not been reviewed). When Lachenmeier et al. use, in addition to “ side effects ”, the term “ unsafe ” for CBD-(food-) products, Kruse and Beitzke request, for the sake of clarity, an explanation why they are “unsafe”, i.e., a description of any, putative or confirmed, short- or long-term negative impact of CBD-products on human health. “Safe” or “unsafe” for food commonly implicates a broader impact on human health than (isolated) side effects. Food can induce, as an example, allergic reactions as side effects still being safe for the large majority of consumers. In short, Kruse and Beitzke clearly describe a number of points in Lachenmeier’s article which would deserve clarification. *) 190267605 180630663 190595270-tea 180776480 190490183-tea 190595273-tea 190595267-tea 190203194 180598182 190495001-tea 190203193 180781746 190400870-tea 180198245 180198246 180598187 190176314-tea ( 7 of 17 samples); in table 2 of Lachenmeier’s article all samples for which „ THC LOAEL “ are marked in red (17 out of 40 samples); of these 17, seven samples (41%) are “hemp teas”. 