We agree with criticism raised by Shen and Ronnegard in their points 2 and 3 concerning the application of the transformation of Sun et al . in the context of whole-genome scans. Indeed, applying this transformation in SNP-specific manner is difficult to adopt conceptually. Sun et al. rightly suggest that “the scales on which we measure interval-scale quantitative traits are man-made and have little intrinsic biological relevance”, but the underlying intrinsic scale, and the function reflecting this scale into the observed, is likely to be unique and does not change with SNP. In that, the transformation applied to a trait should not change through the markers studied. Practically, this is not very difficult to implement, and as a simplest option one could think of the estimation of Sun’s transformation parameters from upper, middle and lower tertiles of the total phenotypic distribution. A more general approach (without restricting the data into three groups, but modelling the variance as a function of the mean) should be straightforward to implement. We also understand the reasoning behind the Shen and Ronnegard’s points 1 and 4, but here we are less certain that the problem raised could be easily addressed. Specifically, one could argue with point 1 (“why should we regard the difference between 160cm and 170cm different from 170cm and 180cm?”): it is not that hard to imagine a biologically relevant model in which same changes of an “intrinsic scale” lead to different changes on the observed scale as the mean advances (an example would be Michaelis–Menten kinetics). Also both points 1 and 4 (losing power after transformation) relate not only to Sun et al .’s transformation, but to almost any transformation in wide use (e.g. Log, Box-Cox, Gaussenization/inverse-normal). While it is true that analysis of transformed trait may lead to reduced power (and specifically in case of Sun’s transformation applied in marker-specific manner to the analysis of variance heterogeneity it should ), we have a feeling that one still would like to check whether the variance heterogeneity found can be modeled as a function of the mean (in which case any SNP affecting the mean is likely to show “control” of the variance as well). Finally, we fully agree with comment of William Hill and Ian White who criticize Sun et al .'s statement that “‘In the absence of genotypic mean differences, we can hardly infer that differences in variances are per se of biological interest”. We think that the differences in variance per se are biologically and genetically plausible and interesting.