I have read the revised paper and appreciate the efforts of the authors to make significant improvements. I also applaud the journal for making the peer review process transparent to all. This paper is a key reference for anyone interested in historical and current shark exploitation in Peru or in the Eastern Pacific region as a whole. The authors’ compilation of unpublished information in Spanish is an important contribution to the shark conservation and management community. However, historical data can often be difficult to interpret due to missing information or changing data quality over time. I feel that the authors have done what they can to formulate interesting hypotheses based on the historical data available but there remain some problems with the technical details of the analyses or the data itself which caution against accepting some of the conclusions presented. Readers should keep this in mind when evaluating the arguments put forth, and particularly when citing this paper. Specific examples include: Catch data vs catch rate data . I originally suggested converting catch to catch rate to provide a time series (trend) of abundance. It appears the authors were unable to convert annual catch to annual catch rate because annual effort statistics (or their proxies) were not available. The point estimates of catch rate now provided may be useful in some sense but in a rather limited way compared to what I had been suggesting. Analysis of catch trends in 10-year intervals . I understand what the authors were attempting to achieve here, but 10-year intervals are arbitrary, and potentially misleading if important changes in the fishery (or the way data are recorded) occur in the midst of these intervals. I consider it would have been better to simply describe the trends in a qualitative fashion. Potential bias due to reporting practices . I am not sure whether in Peru as in most countries there have been shifts toward more species-specific reporting over time. This can be seen in “fish” being increasingly reported as for example “chondrichthyan fish”, “chondrichthyan fish” being reported as for example “sharks” (or “rays”), and “sharks” being reported to species. It is also possible that the coverage of fishery statistics improved over time. It would have been good to document how these factors apply to Peru and whether change occurred across the whole country at the same time. The likelihood that these types of changes did not occur synchronously across countries makes the international comparisons drawn in the paper problematic and potentially unreliable. Recommendations about management . I have no doubt that shark management could be improved in Peru and appreciate the authors raising a number of suggestions for what should be done. However, I am still not clear on exactly what the authors’ top priorities would be and why, and I would have liked to have seen a more insightful analysis. For example, it's clear the authors think the minimum size limit is not sufficient but under the situation they describe what they would like to see instead is not well-explained. Also with the high demand for shark meat in Peru, why do the authors feel that “discouraging potential attempts to make [shark finning] a common practice” is necessary? (Note: the authors define shark finning as “the practice of removing and retaining the fins of live sharks and returning the shark back to the sea where it eventually dies” but finning can occur even if the shark is dead and finning by definition occurs at sea (see authors’ following text)). 