This is a review of the manuscript titled "Communicating behavioral genetics: Charting the limits of the genetic interpolation effect". I have strong reservations about the manuscript on various grounds, and I hope that the author will manage to revise it. First of all, the author needs to justify why we should care at all about what he calls "the genetic interpolation effect". With this, I do not mean to suggest that we should not care. Rather, I suggest that the author needs to make a stronger case for this. The author writes that "Experimental studies have tested how people react to this kind of news", but the author only cites his own previous work. Are these author's studies all the experimental studies on this topic? Or are there others that have not been mentioned? Is this effect well-established in research? Or is it something recently "discovered"? The author writes that "This side-effect has been called the genetic interpolation effect ." By whom? Why? How strong this effect is? How prevalent? No references are given and so we have no idea about these. I am also wondering about the name itself. The author writes that "However, the results also show that disseminating behavioral genetics leads some members of the public to infer greater genetic causation for other complex social traits, which were not the focus of the study presented." This looks more like extrapolation to me. Perhaps the author is right, and my point is not to question the choice of the name. Rather my point is to suggest that we need more information about this effect, which is the focus of the article. There are studies by Ilan Dar Nimrod (http://sydney.edu.au/science/people/ilan.dar-nimrod.php) that I find very relevant and that should have at least been discussed in this article. Celeste Condit has also conducted a few studies on how people interpret news articles on genetics. Both of these scholars would be appropriate reviewers for this article. My suggestion would be for the author to briefly review the findings of their research, and relate his own research to those in order to make more explicit what his contribution is. Individual studies may make interesting contributions, but generalizations are not easy to make even if the sample is large. Some more information about the anchoring and adjustment heuristic would be useful. These are not sufficiently described in the current article, and so one must read the cited articles in order to understand what it is about and how it relates to the research presented therein. There are some problems with the hypotheses made by the author. Does H2 presuppose H1? This is not clear. My understanding is that it does, i.e. that people first have to increase the influence they attribute to genetics in explaining a characteristic after reading the article, in order to subsequently infer greater genetic causation for other complex social traits. This is at least the inference I make from author's description of H3 and H4. It is of course plausible that this is not the assumption made by the author. But then the author should explain why this is the case. Even if I am wrong, the author should ensure that readers will not make the same mistake I have made. Commenting on the statistical methods used falls outside my modest area of expertise. Therefore, I will only comment on the conclusions made assuming that the statistical analysis is appropriate. The author writes: " A sample of 2080 respondents was recruited from a pre-existing panel, with a response rate of 62.6%" Does this mean that approximately 1302 people responded? If yes, why isn't this made clear so that we know what the sample of the study was? That 38% of those asked declined to respond may be interesting for those conducting this kind of surveys. However, in this case we only need to know the actual sample size; how many people were asked to participate is of secondary importance. I am wondering how the reliability and the validity of the inferences made from participants responses was established. Did the author ask experts to read the stimuli and confirm that they are appropriate to measure what the author intends to measure? Were these stimuli used in a pilot study of some kind before this study? For instance the author writes that (Table 1) “Between 1993 and 2003, scientists from around the world have worked on coding the chemical components of human DNA." The expression "coding the chemical components" makes no sense to me. What happened during the HGP was that researchers developed methods to find the sequence of the chemical components (bases A,T,C,G in nucleotides) of the human genome. Decoding this sequence, i.e. finding the information encoded therein, is something that they are still working on. The expression "coding the chemical components" could be very misleading and I do not know if this was done in purpose or accidentally. On the same topic, I do not see why the author would expect that H5 would be confirmed. The author concludes that "Finally, the fifth column of Table 3 suggests that, contrary to what H5 predicts, presenting a paragraph describing how genetics impacts on human physical traits is not sufficient to generate the genetic interpolation effect." There are numerous studies that provide evidence that people intuitively tend to think about biological characteristics as influenced, if not determined, by genes. People tend to take for granted that "physical traits" "are strongly influenced by genetics". Confusion begins when people mistakenly start wondering how much of a trait is due to genes or due to environment, as they often fail to understand that it is the interaction of the two that brings about a phenotypic outcome and thus they cannot be separated. Now, it seems to me that what the author is testing here is another extrapolation effect: whether a statement about biological traits would form the basis for inferences for a behavioural trait. This is interesting but seems to me to be a different effect than the one that the author wants to test, rather than "an alternative explanation for the genetic interpolation effect." Based on all this, I suggest that the author carefully reconsiders his conclusions. I am not at all convinced that this conclusion is valid: "it seems plausible to interpret this null finding as an indication that a short paragraph on behavior genetics is a treatment condition that is not strong enough to cause people to update their general belief framework about the influence of genetics." I am inclined to think that when it comes to genetics even a replacement effect is possible, i.e. reading a highly deterministic headline could make people think in more deterministic terms about genetics. There is no research on that, but some relevant research suggests that this could be possible (e.g. Ecker , U. K. , Lewandowsky , S. , Chang , E. P. , Pillai , R. ( 2014 ). The effects of subtle misinformation in news headlines. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied,20 ( 4 ), 323 – 335.). This is just speculation based on personal experience, and we need research to draw conclusions. The conclusions of this article seem to point to the opposite direction, but I am not sure about their validity. The author should work more and reconceptualize the available data in order to be more convincing that his conclusions are valid. Therefore, I have strong reservations about the quality and the conceptual foundations of this study, and I would like to see if the author will manage to address my concerns. 