This is a generally well-written, interesting, and well-designed study, on an important topic. Both from a therapeutic and health-economic perspective it is important to make the patients with THA self-reliant in their exercise management. We also consider the qualitative part of the proposed trial as an important contribution to understand the patients’ barriers and motivation for performing home-based exercises after THA. However, we have some comments to the authors: It is pointed out that there is some evidence to indicate that rehabilitation exercise may be superior to no or very little rehabilitation exercise after THA (Introduction section). Can you clarify the construct ‘rehabilitation exercise’? The rationale for using elastic band seems a bit unclear in the section of introduction. How can the authors argue for open kinetic chain strength training with elastic band compared to functional task-oriented training? Is there any prior research indicating the effectiveness of strength training in an open kinetic chain? The term ‘pragmatic’ should be clarified (page 3). Participants: We consider the inclusion criteria very wide and unspecific (18 years and OA?). There seems to be few exclusion criteria. Why were patients with stroke, other neurological diseases, drug abuse etc., not excluded from the study? As walking ability is considered the most important function to improve by patients undergoing THA, why were activities of walking not included in the training? What is the rationale and link between elastic band training and improvements in walking? Regarding dose-response; how do you deal with the eventual problem of registration of little activity with the use of the elastic band and a high general weight-bearing activity, such as walking, without registration? In total, this can be considered as a large dose of activity that is not registered. The ActivePAL is only applied for one week. The planned statistical analyses are well described and seem to be adequate. 