The paper discusses the application of HMM to RNA seq time course data from in-vitro P. falciparum culture to cluster the data into 3 clusters and 16 major functional enrichment was seen for these. Although there has been appreciable analysis performed there remains some major concerns. Some of the most important have been presented below for suitable incorporation. The data pre-processing step mentioned in this article was not clear. What type of input data was used here and how the filtering was done? It was mentioned that normalize library from R package was used. Is it appropriate for normalizing RNA Seq based transcriptome studies, since it was mentioned as used for microarray studies (Is it upgraded for RNA Seq based studies?) What is the criterion used to assign the expression of a particular gene across seven different time points? It is unclear with the brief explanation of Discretization. Is this determining the expression status of a particular gene? Availability of data used after normalization would help in reproducibility. Overall I suggest detailed explanation of methodology adopted and its execution with the data used. Proper discussion of the same is also necessary. The RNA Seq based transcriptome data was generated from highly synchronous culture data. The discussion of PfEMP1 linking with the pathology is unnecessary and misleading. Especially the statement “This differential expression during infection and among patients could have accounted for its clustering into 2 different clusters by the algorithm” is not acceptable since the data is from in-vitro culture. I recommend the use of this method to other transcriptome based studies of P.falciparum at different time points (microarray, RNASeq) to validate the results obtained in the present study. Discussion about the results obtained in this study with other transcriptome based studies is also necessary. This will reveal the robustness of the approach employed in this paper. The criteria for GO Term enriched (p-value) should be provided in the discussion although it has been mentioned only in the Figures. Since data was taken from different time points, the stochastic nature of the HMM process may not be appropriate to cluster gene expression data which have strong dependency. It would be interesting to classify the var genes obtained in the different clusters. PfEMPI as encoded by the var gene family is divided into subfamilies with different functional domains. Are the different clusters showing segregation of different subfamilies? In the IDC time course experiment which was performed in-vitro based on which the RNA Seq data has been taken is there a difference in the var gene subfamily expression at different time points? As mentioned in the materials and methods RNA seq based expression data of 5270 P.falciparum genes were considered. However in conclusion it has been mentioned that only 2000 genes were used for clustering. What is the implication of this statement? 