In this work the Minion Analysis and Reference Consortium describes the analysis of Oxford Nanopore sequencing data generated from E.coli using the R9.0 sequencing chemistry. The R9.0 data characteristics were benchmarked against previous R7.3 data. The work is of much interest to (new) users of the Oxford Nanopore sequencing technology, as it provides a realistic overview of how the technology has developed over the course of 2016 and what can be expected in terms of data throughput and quality. I have the following remarks: Major point Oxford Nanopore sequencing technology has developed rapidly over the last year. Yet, the data presented in the paper are derived from older R9.0 and R7.3 chemistries. The value of the data analysis and comparisons would much increase if one or two runs of the more recent R9.4 data will be added as an extra column to each of the plots/tables. R9.4 chemistry is mentioned several times in the manuscript, but unfortunately no data are shown. Other points Materials methods: The authors mention that DNA extraction procedures are described in MARC Phase 1, but no reference is given. Instead, the authors do refer to Supplementary File 1, but this file only contains a list of affiliations. I would suggest that the authors provide the appropriate reference here and/or refer to a Supplementary file that describes the DNA extraction procedures (or add this in the methods). 1D/2D library preparation: The authors list some modifications with respect to ONT protocols. For the more ignorant reader, the authors could spell out why these modifications were added. Sentence page 4: “Both alignments were then improved with marginAlign.” What does ‘improved’ mean in this case? If specific marginAlign settings were used, then these should be listed as well. Results: Base yield and read lengths: There appear some inconsistencies regarding claims about read lengths for R7.3 vs R9.0. The abstract states that read length N50 was not different, while page 4 states that “R9.0 chemistry showed an increase in [...] read length” compare to R7.3. Are differences in yield and read lengths statistically significant between R7.3 and R9.0? Related to this: the authors mention that median read length is longer for R9.0 compared to R7.3 (6.6kb - 7.7kb and 6.4kb), yet they mention that the maximum read length is comparable (50.9kb and 59.7 kb). Why are median values regarded as different, while maximum values are regarded as comparable? Base quality: “The proportion of “pass” reads with a Q-value threshold of 9 was 66% to 72%, about the same as that observed for the typical R7.3 experiment, with a base quality threshold of 9.0.” Is Q-value equivalent to base quality value here? Or do the authors mean Q-value instead of base quality? A similar statement is made later in this paragraph. Alignment identity and accuracy: From the Table, it appears that R9.0 “fail” reads are worse than R7 failed reads. Could the authors comment why this is the case? Page 7, second column: There appears to be a mistake in the given read identities for 2D R9.0 experiments (89% and 85% given, while these numbers appear for R9.0 template reads; should be ~94% and ~70%). The authors make a point about read quality and mention that the longest subsequence that perfectly aligns increases around 2-4 times for 1D runs, going from R7.3 to R9. Does this mean that the errors are less randomly distributed in R9 data, given that the median percent identity does not change substantially? The authors could improve this analysis, by evaluating the randomness of the error distribution within reads, or across the genome and how this relates to genome sequence context. Performance over time (Figure 2): Final sentence of results: “The current report is for the initial R9.0 chemistry, and the GC-bias seems to be less pronounced with the improved version of the R9 pore (R9.4 data not shown).” It would be better if the authors draw a clear conclusion whether this bias is present or not, and include data to support this. Page 9: the authors mention that GC content differs for different run and read types. It would be good if the authors quantify these differences and provide the numbers in the text. Figure 2: What does count mean here? Read counts or event counts? Figure 2 legend: Read length is referred to as ‘kb’, but probably the authors mean ‘b’ (looking at the y-axis of the length plot). Page 8: “the quantity and quality of data produced during an experiment varied as material passed from one side of the membrane to the other.” What does this mean exactly? This could be replaced by a more precise statement. 