The authors present an interesting paper that examines neurophysiologic measurements in 13 chronic stroke survivors who completed robotic therapy or intensive interventions lasting either 6 weeks or 12 weeks. The study explores the use and predictive capabilities of MEPs, FA, and resting state fMRI. Further there is some discussion of the ipsilateral silent period but this was difficult to obtain in a number of subjects for technical reasons. Although we are enthusiastic about the study, we have some concerns over the manuscript in its existing format and put forward a number of questions/suggestions for the authors below. The authors used a number of different measures – it would have been nice to see a hypothesis associated with each of these measures. Could the authors please be more clear on the rehabilitation intervention? We recognize that they do cite the trials from which the data was taken, but even a line or two discussing what went on in the robot vs the comp. groups would be helpful. It would also be helpful to demarcate which individual received what therapy in Figure 3. The authors state that the ROI analysis for the resting state fMRI was performed without normalization. Those unfamiliar with this type of analysis may not understand why normalization is not required. Please add a sentence or two to provide justification. How often did the authors note a change in the motor hotspot using TMS? Why use a 5mm spherical region of interest for the PLIC as the PLIC is not a spherical structure? Some explanation of the reasoning for this would be helpful. What was the role of the single control subject who is mentioned in the methods? Please clarify. Exactly how many subjects did the authors find/not find an ipsilateral silent period in? Re: Fractional Anisotropy (FA): R-squared = 0.48 is reported for the relationship of FA to baseline motor ability. It would be nice to see this in a scatter plot as the relationship is quite strong. The manuscript might benefit from some discussion of why steeper MEP recruitment does not lead to better function. The authors mention the technical limitations of using silent periods. For readers who are not familiar with this technique, a sentence or two briefly describing what those limitations are would be helpful. Further, the discussion of the importance of the silent period relative to what is known in the literature would be helpful. We would like to see slightly more discussion about the limitations of an n=13 sample size. For instance, the results that those subjects with an MEP at baseline tended to do better appears to be driven by 3 subjects based on figure 3. Minor Concerns: Many abbreviations go undefined in the paper: Last paragraph of introduction: It would be appreciated if the authors provided the references for the two multicenter VA studies that they discuss. They should also define VA for readers. Figure 2 – the authors need to state what the abbreviations are in the text for the correlation matrices. Figure 6 – Please label your abbreviations. Dataset 1 label: Please check your spelling “cronic strocke” In the PDF version of the manuscript, the quality of the correlation matrices in Figure 2B appears to be low resolution. Introduction: “In such patients the mechanisms of recovery may be qualitatively different and who have the most to grain with improved understanding of the mechanisms…” – this sentence appears to be incomplete. 