This study reports no morphine consumption reduction in the 24 first hours after spine surgery in the 4 tested groups: placebo-placebo, single preincisional nefopam bolus – placebo, placebo-end surgery single nefopam bolus, preincisional and end surgery nefopam injections. Despite a well design study (randomized monocentric double blind controlled study), major points have to be clarified, before interpreting the results. The sample size calculation is unclear: In the methods chapter, it is calculated using a “percentage of reduction" of morphine consumption during the first 24 postoperative hours. The mean consumption to calculate the sample size is not given. By using the shared data of this study, the overall morphine consumption (N=96) is 22 mg +/- 20 (mean +/- standard deviation). With a power of 80%, an alpha at 0.05, 99 patients per group are required to detect the chosen 35% reduction in a two tailed test ( https://biostatgv.sentiweb.fr ), while the authors' calculation resulted in 21 patients per group. This study seems therefore largely underpowered. The perioperative analgesic use should be more accurately described: Was intraoperative analgesia obtained using morphine? (Methods, paragraph 6). If yes, the total dose should be mentioned in Table 2 (I suppose the 10-15mg intraoperative morphine mentioned in table 2 is for analgesia, not for a 6 hours anesthesia). Morphine was injected before the PACU in some patients (table 2 and data file): can you describe how the physician decided to inject or not morphine at the end of the surgery? Methods, end of paragraph 4: no patient received preoperative gabapentinoid or opiod or NSAID. In the shared data file, 39/96 patients had gabapentinoid, 11 had NSAID and several had tramadol. Please explain these contradictory data. Data analysis: Results, first paragraph: 10 of 96 patients were excluded because operative time 4 hours - Why did you choose such a limit? This is quite in opposition with the “intention to treat analysis” mentioned in the last paragraph of methods. Please explain why we find 39 patients (and not 10) with an operative time 240 min in the shared data file. Please clearly identify in the shared file which patients have been excluded. How were the lacking data seen in the shared data file managed? (“NA”). Results: Please replace in the third paragraph “similar” by “not different” (2 occurrences). Table 3: are we dealing with nb of patients, nb of side effect occurrence? Can you mention cumulative data for patients (nb of patients having at least one occurrence of the side effect during the first 24 hours)? I don’t understand Figure 2: can you explain what each “time 0” is? The detailed comments on the discussion have to be performed after the above points have been clarified. The global comment on discussion is that the main limitation of this study is it is largely underpowered . So conclusions about negative results have to be very cautious (more than in the present version of the paper). Nevertheless, these data have to be published, since they are fitted for a potential future meta-analysis. 