dot-app is a Cytoscape App that enables the inter-conversion of Graphviz and Cytoscape formatted files. As far as we are aware no similar application exists and this is therefore a potentially useful development. We found no problems with the usage of the app; it integrates well into Cytoscape, and can convert back and forth between formats without issue aside from the loss of information which is documented in the article. The code is readable and very well commented. We did have an issue when compiling from source, however. The DOT parsing jar from Alex Merz isn't being included properly when Maven builds the project. The major concern we had was that the concept for the application is really very straight-forward and following on from this, its functionality is therefore pretty limited. We wondered initially whether there was really a need for such an application, however, dot-app has been downloaded 1200 times so there is obviously a market for the tool. A remaining question, however, is whether the app justifies a 10-page paper? The paper itself reads a bit more like documentation and we would have preferred to have seen a more concise paper introducing the concepts together with more detailed documentation. We think that the paper could also benefit from a better discussion in the introduction of the motivation behind the development of dot-app. Can you give examples where one would want to create a network in one format and then convert it to another? How hard would it be to manually re-create the visualisation in Graphviz/Cytoscape? The application also appears very reliant on the parser developed by Alex Merz (this is not referenced properly). It would be good to clarify how much of the functionality is provided by this parser and how much is extended by dot-app. A key limitation of the app is that many of features of either format are lost when converting between them. This is because there isn’t an equivalent feature in the other format. It is good that the authors are clear about which ones cannot be converted but this problem still means that manual intervention would likely be needed to customise the desired style. One thing that could be improved is how the implicit default values are handled by dot-app. Couldn’t you set reasonable values for these if they are not specified in a particular visualisation to enable more faithful conversion of the visualisation style? One final concern is that it is very likely that the visual styles in both Graphviz and Cytoscape will continue to evolve over time. How will dot-app keep pace with these changes? Have the authors considered trying to get the Graphviz and Cytoscape communities to adopt at least the equivalent visual style features in both applications? Or at least to indicate in the Cytoscape and Graphviz documentation what is the equivalent feature (when there is one). Minor comment: Under Operation it would be good to start by explaining how to install the App (for novice Cytoscape users).