The manuscript of Orengo et al presents the goals of the Elixir initiative in the context of historical achievements in the field of 3D Bioinformatics. It is a conceptual piece to provide guidance to an entire field and therefore I would reflect on that. ‘Computational approaches in biology’ always suffered from an identity problem and I believe this manuscript does not help to resolve it and as such it might be a missed opportunity. One major issue is if one approaches computational structural biology as a discipline or a technology. I believe Elixir efforts all about boosting the potential of this discipline but the scope of this effort is still presented rather as a technology that can support other disciplines. The first sentence of the abstract immediately leaves this question un-answered “Structural bioinformatics provides the scientific methods and tools to analyse, archive, validate, and present the biomolecular structure data generated by the structural biology community.”. By leaving out aspects of “modeling” from the possible contribution, which I believe is a frequent and important aspect of computational structural biology, the authors restrict the activities for retrospective analysis of experimental data, to “bioinformatics”, i.e to “organize, analyze an manipulate data”. And do not make the argument that “modeling”, i.e. gaining new, testable hypothesis and generating new knowledge is also part of this field (e.g. structural modeling of proteins without experimental structures; docking receptors and ligands in so far unseen complexes; predicting new receptor ligand interactions; predicting and modeling protein drug interactions; modeling /simulating protein motions; modeling enzyme kinetics with molecular dynamics or quantum mechanical simulations; etc.). NIH made an attempt to distinguish between “bioinformatics” and “computational biology”. If I try paraphrase it in a 3D context, 3D-Bioinfirmatics is: research, development, or application of computational tools and approaches for expanding the use of 3D biological data, including those to acquire, store, organize, archive, analyze, or visualize such data. In contrast to 3D-Computational Biology of biomolecular structures, which is the development and application of data-analytical and theoretical methods, mathematical modeling and computational simulation techniques to the study of macromolecular structures. This review so far was concerned with the first sentence of the Abstract only. The rest of the paper does touch on a number of innovative, activities that generate new knowledge, i.e. a discipline like activity, but at least to this reviewer this is not formulated in the framework enough. 