The authors measure immunoglobulin containing complexes by dynamic light scattering and the relationship between dietary intake and the presence, amount and quality of these complexes. Experiments are carried out using rats and by obtaining blood from human volunteers. The stated aim of the study is the monitoring of quantity and quality of immune complexes following food intake. Methodology Protein A binds either poorly or not at all rat immunoglobulins, so it was not a good choice for the experiment. Therefore the fact that complexes with a hydrodynamic radius of 200-300 nm are removed from rat serum is only indirect and weak evidence that these complexes are immune complexes. Even if these complexes contain immunoglobulins the specific interactions between antibody and antigen should be proved in order to be called immune complexes. Results Figure 1A and Figure 2C are identical, redundance could be reduced by merging these figures. Protein A treatment seems to alter composition not only by removing large complexes but also by increasing the relative contribution to light scattering of 81-109 nm sized complexes. This is not addressed by the authors. Similar complexes are present in the IVC sample (Figure 2D) of fed versus fasted rats (Fig 2B). How was the fraction of particles matching the ICs in human heparinized plasma determined? Figure 3 and Table 1 is based on the identification of this fraction, yet it is not defined under Methods. Discussion The first two paragraphs on page 11 provide a general overview of secreted IgA but the authors do not explain how that is related to their findings; in the present context it is not relevant and could be omitted. In Table 2 it is not clear whether + sign means OR or AND; IgG1+IgG3 seems to refer to complexes containing either IgG1 OR IgG3, while IgG1+IgA seems to refer to double positive (IgG1 AND IgA) complexes. Figure 4B-D-F suggests that complexes contain exclusively either IgG1 or IgA, these isotype specific monoclonals reacting with roughly half-half of the complexes. This is very unusual for immune complexes where different isotypes against the same antigen are usually present at the same time. Conclusions The authors claim that the molecular and cellular "mechanisms of the formation and utilization of food immune complexes in humans and rodents do not match completely". The experimental and methodological approach was different in rodents and humans, therefore such a conclusion cannot be reached. Kinetics was not followed in rats that were fed ad libitum, evidence is only indirect via the use of two sampling sites (vena portae, vena cava inferior) in contrast to temporal monitoring in humans. No cellular measurements were done at all, therefore conclusion on cellular mechanisms cannot be drawn. Minor formal comment Throughout the figures cyrillic "nm" is used for nanometer, please replace with latin nm. The topic, how ingested food components are recognized by preformed immunoglobulins and how this recognitions affects food uptake and immunological tolerance and metabolism in general, is very timely and interesting. The article has several weak points though that need to be improved for solid and convincing results. 