This article aimed to evaluate the fracture resistance of two different laminate veneer restorative materials. The influence of the preparation design was also considered. The selected materials offer different characteristics based on their structural natures and compositions. Therefore, comparing the performance of these materials in situations mimicking that of the normal intraoral environment is of great importance and would guide the practicing dentist to select the most clinically beneficial material. General comment: The whole article should be linguistically revised. Rephrasing of some sentences is highly recommended. Title: After going through this article, I do suggest some changes to the study title “ Fracture Resistance of Teeth Restored with Hybrid and Glass-based Ceramic Veneers ”. The new title, according to my vision, would be beneficial for the work and for properly leading the readers. Abstract: The aim of the study should be restructured according to the new title. The conclusion should also be redrawn according to the new aim. Introduction: Should be revised and modified wherever possible according to the suggested aim. Highlights on the actually utilized composite material (as shown at the beginning of the abstract section) should be considered. Referring to previous literature (if any) that showed support/conflict of using these materials would be helpful. The aim should be modified too. Materials and methods: A table showing the detailed description, composition and manufacturer of the used materials must be added. This will help the reader to easily discover the differences between both categories of the restorative materials. Testing procedure: The recorded test results were greatly influenced by the bulk of tooth structure. Referring to the testing mechanism, the site of load application would flex the tooth at the cervical third. In the tooth crown the cervical third is having the most bulk of the tooth structure and accordingly shows minimal flexing. Most of the applied force would affect the cervical constriction (at the cervical line) causing fracture of the tooth itself. It is so important for the authors to mention when they exactly recorded the fracture load (must be at the first-heard cracking/clicking sound) simply because if the fracture starts within the tooth at the cervical line, continuous loading could lead to fracture or debonding of the veneer leading to false results. Therefore, the influence of tooth flexing on the bonded restoration was; accordingly, too minimal to induce fracture unless defective cementation was there to initiate cracking (this can explain the high values of the SD and the insignificant differences between the recorded results). Therefore, in my opinion, the performed test was evaluating the fracture resistance of the restored teeth rather than the fracture resistance of the restorations themselves. To test the fracture resistance of the veneering materials, 3-point flexure test is recommended to test bar specimens obtained from the restored teeth. Results: Duplicate presentation of the results (Tables and graphs) is not recommended. Discussion and Conclusion: Should be adjusted according to the aforementioned suggestions. 