The manuscript addresses the question whether PPAR- agonists can induce pneumonia as indicated by prior RCTs. The authors used administrative data sets and a new user design recruiting more than one million patients. Of these patients, a subgroup of 6000 (i.e. age between 18 and 64, diabetes prior to pneumonia, one episode of pneumonia, no CHF) was matched with an identical number of diabetic patients without pneumonia . Statistical analysis revealed a higher number of COPD patients in the pneumonia group (which is expected). After adjusting for important confounders of pneumonia (such as COPD, cancer, tobacco use and vaccination) the use of PPAR- agonists was not associated with higher incidence of pneumonia. In fact, a decreased odds ratio was found when current exposure of rosiglitazone was plotted against pneumonia. Overall, the authors conclude that there is no increased risk of pneumonia, when using PPAR- agonists. In general, the paper is of high clinical relevance, only presently limited by the fact the TZDs are almost off market because the spectrum of side effects. There are a few points of possible amendments: Introduction: the difference between the two TZDs is likely not relevant with regard to pneumonia development. This should be mentioned. Introduction: reference 19 involves Type 1 diabetic patients the pathogenesis of increased susceptibility is different, therefore a ref. restricted to type 2 diabetes is preferable. MM and result section: one of the most important determinants of infections in diabetic patients is metabolic control. Are there data on blood glucose, or HbA1c of the two groups to identify a possible additional confounder? Moreover, data on the current use of steroids would be helpful as the proportion of COPD is different between the two groups. MM and result section: important anthropometric data from both patient groups are lacking, such as age, known diabetes duration, and comorbidities. Are there any available data that could be incorporated? Discussion section: specify the confounders that were explicitly addressed. Future research: the current status of TZD approval with the FDA and EMA should be incorporated here. 