 Abstract: The results part in the abstract should focus on the main results such as the areas with high level of knowledge and areas with lower level of knowledge. Remove the excessive description of the sample socio-demographic characteristic. Conclusion part has been written as a recommendation only. It will be better if you summarize the findings then make a brief recommendation. Methods: Under the setting subtitle no need to mention the names of the hospitals. Maintaining the confidentiality of participant hospitals. No need to mention the duration of the study under the setting subtitle, it is mentioned under data collection. Delete this ‘According to Al-Hawaly, Ibrahim, and Qalawa’ and write : according to a previous study (..) …. Instead of citing the tool they have developed and used, authors must mention and cite the references and literature that had been used in developing the tool. Per authors, the second part of data collection instrument contains three subsections which are the before EN administration, during EN administration, and after EN administration. Accepting that this categorization is correct, it is not clear which items are under each subsection. Moreover, most of the 17 items are not related to the before, during, and after EN management, they are related to general knowledge about the EN (such as the indications, goals, benefits, complications, routs, methods, types and contents of EN formula, …….. etc.), even there is an item asking about the types of nutritional support in general (enteral, parenteral, combination, ..etc.). More suitable grouping and categorizing must be used to organize the instrument or to leave it without any categorization it will be better. Validity and reliability: delete the word ‘ reliability’ and replace it by ‘ internal consistency’. Under the data analysis subtitle, they mentioned that a multinomial logistic regression test was conducted. In fact, no multinomial logistic regression test was done. So , delete ‘ multinomial logistic regression’. Results: In results, the use of some terms (such as most, majority) in describing the results need a revision. For example: 49.40% is not a majority. Table 2 presents the frequency and percentage of the participants and compares between the subgroups using the Chi-square tests. I think it will be better if the table presents the knowledge means scores and standard deviations of the subgroups and compare between them by the t or f tests. After that multiple regression can be performed. Discussion: Discussion must be on the main important findings based on the objectives of the study. No need to write two paragraphs at the beginning of the discussion about the participants' characteristics such as age, gender, educational levels, and work experience. Describing those characteristic in results part is enough. General The paper needs English language editing. 