The manuscript' objective is to analyze mortality trends in Bangladesh from 2000 to 2008, to identify the main causes of death, and categorize them by sex and age group with vital registration, maternal and child health data collected from Matlab, a rural area of Bangladesh, in 2000, 2004 and 2008 though Health and Demographic Surveillance System of ICDDR, B. It is very significant to directly report the mortality trend in developing countries like Bangladesh. The data are from original vital registration and maternal and children health. However authors do not describe the vital registration and maternal and children health collecting systems. How to work of these collecting systems? Who report the status of victims to whom? How many cases are diagnosed by hospital? These basic information are very necessary in the manuscript. Also how about the quality of these collecting system, underreporting, or misreporting? Authors should supplement these messages. As the number of deaths per year is only about 800, it is understanding why authors classified a bigger age span for mortality. I still suggest mortality aged from 15-59 is divided into 2 groups: 15- 39, and 40 - 59. In addition authors do not emphasize the total mortality rate is crude death rate or standard death rate, but it should be the standard death rate for comparison with different annual mortality. The third, the death causes. Authors very briefly define the death causes: D1neonatal and maternal diseases (D1), D2 Communicable diseases, D3: Non-communicable diseases and D4 Injuries and miscellaneous causes. The definition on death causes is hard to satisfy the death causes analysis. Authors should refer to the International classification of death causes, the results of the manuscript can be understood by international colleagues. Especially authors list the subdivision category of chronic non-communication diseases without ICD code in Table 5, so it is hard to understand whether the diseases is same disease on the international category of diseases causes.