I read with great interest Ramirez and colleagues’ study in which they present an estimation about the probability of contracting infection due to ampicillin-resistant E. coli though the consumption of contaminated water in the urban and rural areas of Ecuador. This publication is a good example for how to obtain valuable and useful knowledge through consistent data analysing and data evaluation. The goal of the study is well described. The manuscript is clear; the used methods in this paper are adequate. However, I would like to share my observations in order to aid readers’ understanding. Despite the authors analysing separately the urban and rural populations of Ecuador, the basis of the differentiation is not defined. In this paper, the data of urban and rural populations in Ecuador is outdated; it referred to 2010 data (Table 1). I mean, it would be better to use the latest published dataset from 2018, source: https://tradingeconomics.com/ecuador/rural-population-percent-of-total-population-wb-data.html . It states that the total population is 16,624,858 and also the ratio of urban population (64.3%) increased, compared to 2010. The ratio of population consuming Escherichia coli -infected water (Table 2) is surprisingly high, especially for the rural population, compared to Europe. Does it really cover reality? Using ampicillin resistance values measured in the Bianchi et al. (2014) study in the water of San Juan River in Argentina, is critical. The distance is about 3600 km, the climate conditions are significantly different. Sorry, I am not aware of the ampicillin application frequency in South America, perhaps this is the reason for my doubts about this data. Last but not least: there are two typos in the paper. One of them is the missing closing bracket “)” before the equal sign ‘=’ in the Marrero’s equation. The other error is in Table 2; instead of last row (Total, 100, 100) it would be better to create another column, with the identical name and values. In conclusion, the results of the research work are proving that the Bayes Theorem is suitable for the evaluation of elaborated data sets. The publication meets all of the scientific requirements; the results have practical relevance and they can be used by the decision makers also. That is why I suggest the presented paper for indexing. 