Revised manuscript satisfied most of the previous comments. Data preprocessing: Datasets are well characterize by the number of samples and features, the missing data imputation of the three datasets is clarified. Network generation and reduction: An explanation is included about the use of 10 7 as a threshold for the number of edges and its relation with the test-multiple correction rates performed. Furthermore, the scale-free reduction is better explained. Stochastic block models: On the one hand, the SBM model definition is more extensive and the underfitting problem is addressed. On the other hand, although the comment about the number of partitions is correctly answered, this explanation is not included in the body text. Functional enrichment: The use of Reactome and KEGG is now justified. The description of Figure 3 has improved and a new panel was added. Moreover, two new Figures were included dealing with the biological insights derived from the SBM blocks. Finally, the edge confident scores section is explained in more detail. New comments about revised manuscript: Figure 3C and 3D both suggest that SBM block hierarchy does not relates with Reactome’s hierarchy. As mentioned in text, SBM blocks are characterized by common connectivity characteristics which may not be completely related with traditional classification based on functions. This is the key point of SBM derived blocks and it is not fully evaluated in terms of biological meaning, i.e, which pathways are more related to the SBM blocks? Also, a figure with the SBM networks (network topology) as in Figure 2C but including tags with enriched pathways should be included in order to evaluate the biological information that could be extracted from the SBM network. In this sense, Figures 4 and 5 are more suitable than Figure 3 as a “validation” of the capability of SBM-derived communities to capture biological function related to breast cancer. The validation step previously proposed: “A good approach could be to select a gene X and see if the rest of the genes of the pathways, where gene X is annotated, are in the same block of gene X (or in near blocks in the hierarchy). And repeat this for a high number of genes.” has not been neither performed or considered in the response. If not suitable or possible, please explain why.