This commentary reads more like a review and only describes work previously performed by the researchers. I have a number of reservations about this previously published work. The authors should present more detail from at least one example where dual activity has been proven. Some of the claims made by the authors are extraordinary. Can the authors supply any explanation for the presence of a serine peptidase activity in alkaline phosphatase from a shrimp, but not Escherichia coli ? If there was any physiological relevance for the peptidase activity for an alkaline phosphatase then surely it would be conserved. It seems extraordinarily serendipitous that the authors are working on UVI31+ and that this is the only substrate for the peptidase activity of shrimp alkaline phosphatase the authors could detect. This is unlikely to be a physiological substrate, which implies that the serine peptidase activity of alkaline phosphatase is very general, and it is behaving as if its’ role were protein degradation rather than limited processing. Given that there are so many other peptidases for recycling proteins - the proteasome in the cytoplasm, lysosomal peptidases, digestive enzymes of the stomach and gut, for example - what would be the evolutionary pressure to maintain such a generalized function for alkaline phosphatase? Have the alleged serine peptidase activity of shrimp alkaline phosphatase, and the alleged inhibition of alkaline phosphatase activity by a serine peptidase inhibitor been confirmed by other researchers? I can understand that a small molecule like PMSF might block any active site serine, regardless of the type of enzyme, but the authors claim that the protein ovoinhibitor reduces alkaline phosphatase activity, which would require not only an active site but also at least one substrate binding site for the reactive site in the inhibitor. Perhaps this is merely some irrelevant, non-specific binding rather than true inhibition. Why were synthetic substrates not used instead of proteins? Then proper kinetics could be measured, rather than presenting bands on a gel. Clearly the authors are aware of the dangers of contamination, because they admit to having had problems with a metallopeptidase contaminating phospholipase C, for which their CLASP analysis predicts a metallopeptidase-like active site. The controls that the authors use in their experiments, namely to denature all proteins with SDS, would not address this problem, because any contaminant would be denatured as well as the enzyme under experimentation. Use of peptidase inhibitors would be equally useless if the catalytic type of the contaminating peptidase and the enzyme in question were the same. Perhaps the authors should abandon commercial preparations and use recombinant enzymes where it would be possible to mutate active site residues to show that a knockout abrogates activity? The authors state that their CLASP analysis is unable to find a serine peptidase-like active site in phospholipase C, and that this is confirmed by failure to inhibit phospholipase C with a serine peptidase inhibitor. This is an example of a negative result proving a negative hypothesis, which really doesn't prove anything. In Table 1, the structure 1A0J should be described in the legend. Promiscuity in enzyme active sites is a known phenomenon. An example that comes to mind is leukotriene A4 hydrolase, which not only hydrolyses the epoxide but also acts as an aminopeptidase using the same active site. There are also numerous examples where an active site performs different functions in different organisms (or even in the same organism for some protein products of paralogous genes): for example proteins with the alpha/beta hydrolase fold, where some are peptidases and some are lipases. It would strengthen the authors’ case considerably to include examples such as these before discussing their own results.