The current manuscript investigates the CAPE assessment in a very difficult to access population. While there is some indication of the validity and utility of the CAPE from these data, the impact of the findings is diminished by the small sample size. Introduction Please reference both the “Troubled Families Programme,” and the “Family Intervention Project” in the introduction, or just say “drawn from government intervention programs” or similar. It was slightly confusing tracking back to the introduction from the methods when I expected only one program and two were described. Please discuss why the non-target youth were assessed in this study in the introduction. Methods/Results The authors write, “no sample size calculation was performed.” I suspect that the authors mean that no power analysis was conducted to inform sample size. Please be clear. The level of detail regarding the clinical training of the interviewers seems a bit excessive. Something along the lines of “the interviewers had sufficient clinical training and research experience to conduct the interviews, though were not registered clinicians” should suffice. That the interviews were not conducted by the typical clinician is a weakness that should be discussed later in the paper. The comparison between target and non-target youth comes a bit from no-where. This analysis is not well set-up in the introduction. Please make it clear why this analysis is conducted in the introduction. In Figures 1 5, please report standard error bars, as opposed to standard deviation. The sentence “There were no associations found between the CAPE 1.1 and externalizing/internalizing behavior regardless of reporter, although the relation with externalizing behaviour (as reported by the parent) was moderate” is unclear. If there was no association, how can the relationship be moderate? Figure 4 is very difficult to read - it is a jumble. Perhaps indicate via color-code specific ranges of correlation/significant correlations. The specific numbers and the crossing out of those numbers is less than ideal. Discussion The non-target children are not mentioned in the discussion. They either need to be incorporated more fully into the paper or removed from the paper. I think that the authors need to spend more time in the discussion making the case that these data are able to help clinicians evaluate the CAPE. The authors did an admirable job of accessing a difficult population, but the reality is that the numbers are so low, it’s hard to interpret the data. This is especially the case since the CAPE wasn’t used entirely in a manner consistent with recommended clinical use. Why would a clinician, after reading this paper, make a decision one way or the other about using the CAPE in clinical practice? The discussion needs to take this criticism on directly and forcefully. Minor points: The following sentence is clunky: “However, negatively worded items can sometimes be difficult to understand and put a strain on a child’s verbal abilities, which are often found to be deficient in children with conduct problems, anyway.” Perhaps revise? “No other exclusion criteria were necessary” is an odd way to write this. Please be clear that no other exclusion criteria were employed. 