Vegetables and processed meat are the main dietary sources of inorganic nitrate. Nitrate itself has no know direct physiological effects. However, the mammalian body can convert nitrate into nitrite and nitric oxide (NO) in a two-step process either by mammalian nitrate and nitrite reductases or by the help of the oral and gut microbiome. It had been well documented over the past decade that NO and nitrite have a wide array of beneficial effects on cardiovascular health, such as lowering blood pressure, and improves the ability to exercise by decreasing the oxygen cost of exercise and/or by improving the blood flow into contracting muscle - for a review about the effect of nitrate and nitrite on exercise performance see Jones et al. , 2018 1 . I believe these 2 points needs to be addressed in the present manuscript before being accepted for indexing: 1. The manuscript by Cintya et al. contains useful information about the amounts of nitrite/nitrate and vitamin C in various vegetables and on the effect of storage on the amount of these ions and vitamin C. However, it seems that the general message the authors try to convey in their abstract and introduction is that nitrite is a carcinogen and should be avoided. This idea had long been proven wrong and the message should be modified. Nitrate and nitrite are an integral part of a healthy diet and their importance for cardiovascular health is not questionable (Bryan et al. , 2012 2 and Lundberg and Weitzberg, 2013 3 ); evidence for nitrate/nitrite-caused cancer is not convincing (Eichholzer and Gutzwiller, 1998 4 and Forman et al. , 1985 5 ). As some case studies show, nitrite poisoning is usually a result of sodium nitrite overdose when used as meat-preserving salt (Jones et al. , 2018 1 ) or when sodium nitrite is used instead of table salt (sodium chloride) by mistake (Lee et al. , 2017 6 ). 2. While the finding that storage affects levels of nitrate/nitrite is important, there is no mention about the reasons. Even if the reasons may be as trivial as loss of water during storage, it still should be mentioned. 