Cohen and Marron discuss a view of evolution in the context of entropy: that the main driver underpinning change and evolution at all scales in living organisms is the need to resist the inevitable decay of that organisation, the need to resist the increase in entropy. They provide extensive examples of the benefits of organisation, how there are no isolated organisms, and how viewing biological systems, from cells to ecosystems, through the lens of interactions allows understanding of the existence of various universals in biology. They conclude by suggesting investigations to test this view. I find the argument compelling and thought-provoking as it stands. However, there are a few places where I believe links to other work in literature could help further demonstrate both the novelty of the approach, with its focus on evolution specifically, and its connection to other thermodynamic takes on biology. In particular I think it would be useful to include a little on the work of Kaufmann (constrained release of energy; non-equilibrium flow into the adjacent possible; fourth law of thermodynamics; etc), and of Schneider Sagan (open systems and non-equilibrium thermodynamics; life reducing energy gradients and thereby accelerating the increase in entropy; etc). Stuart A. Kauffman. Investigations . Oxford University Press. 2000 Eric D. Schneider, Dorion Sagan. Into the Cool: energy flow, thermodynamics, and life . University of Chicago Press. 2005 Also, prediction #2 would benefit from a comparison with Lenski’s long term evolution experiment. There are also places where the terminology and argument could be tightened up somewhat: p3: although there are clues in the subsequent text, it might be useful to add a couple of sentences saying explicitly why the evolution of unicellular organisms is not dealt with. p4: the statement of the 2 nd law would better read: disorder in an isolated system does not decrease . (In thermodynamics, a closed system can still exchange energy with its surroundings, eg a constant temperature heat bath, whereas an isolated system cannot. Also, entropy does not continue to increase past thermodynamic equilibrium.) p5, col2: “everything made of matter is made of … atoms”; this is true only under certain physical conditions: the sun, for example, is a plasma; a neutron star is made of degenerate matter. p8, col2: “Bonding between reacting entities reduces … the total amount of entropy.” It reduces the entropy of the atoms, but does not reduce in total: the rest is carried away by energy released by the exothermic reaction and absorbed by the constant temperature heat bath. p9, col1: “define a living entity as one that is able to exploit energy, by way of metabolism, to renew itself.” The autopoiesis work of Maturana and Varela could be referenced here. p13, col1: deer, barn owls, etc, co-existing with human environments, are called “feral” creatures. Feral rather means “living wild, having escaped from captivity or domestication” (as with the Mynah birds on p14); here a better term would be “synanthropic”. p13, co1: all the examples of animals constructing niches: bird nests fit here too. p13, col1: “each species interacts in its own unique way with that space”: this is reminiscent of the William James quotation: “Other sculptors, other statues from the same stone! Other minds, other worlds from the same monotonous and inexpressive chaos! p14, col2: on the biomass of domesticated species, the point could be made even more dramatically by saying: “the biomass of livestock outweighs by many fold the biomass of all wild mammals combined, and even outweighs the biomass of humans”. If “survival of the fittest” holds, cattle are fitter than humans! p17, prediction 6: “provided that entropy holds sway there”; why would entropy not hold sway there? All the arguments in this paper assume 2 nd Law inescapability. There are also a couple of typos. p3, revision box, point 4: Szathmary’s name is misspelled. p15, line 1: repeated “by”. 