We would like to note that we encourage the publication of case reports on Post Orgasmic Illness Syndrome (POIS). POIS was previously recognized and reported by Waldinger et al. 1,2,3 who proposed 5 preliminary criteria, which were extracted from a large study of 45 Dutch males with POIS 1 . Moreover, in 2011 Waldinger et al . postulated that POIS is caused by an immunological reaction against a man’s own semen. This concept was based on a placebo-controlled study amongst 33 men who underwent skin-prick tests with diluted auto-semen 1 . The skin prick reaction appeared to be positive in 88% 1 . In addition, hyposensibilisation with auto-semen showed to ameliorate POIS symptoms in two men who consented with hyposensibilisation 2 . Notably, Waldinger et al. also showed that of all 45 men with POIS 58% had an atopic constitution, suggesting a relationship between an allergic constitution and POIS 1 . Apart from being incomplete in their references (references 1 and 2 are not mentioned in the article of Attia et al. ), the authors of the current case report quoted the first publication of Waldinger and Schweitzer erratically by mentioning that analgesics, such as NSAIDs, tramadol and SSRIs taken precoital “may help some patients” suggesting that these drugs may be effective in some way to treat POIS. However, in the original description of POIS in 2002, none of these drugs were suggested as being clinically effective to reduce POIS symptomatology. Existence of atopic or allergic conditions remains a cornerstone of POIS and was clearly previously reported in the aforementioned original studies. Therefore, it is ironical and also flawed when Attia et al. stated that “previous reported cases did not inquire about or evaluate allergic reactions”. We feel obliged to clarify these wrong statements since scientific prudence must prevail particularly in case of claims of new disease concepts. References 1. Waldinger MD, Meinardi MM, Zwinderman AH, Schweitzer DH: Postorgasmic Illness Syndrome (POIS) in 45 Dutch caucasian males: clinical characteristics and evidence for an immunogenic pathogenesis (Part 1). J. Sex Med. 2011; 8 (4): 1171-70 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Waldinger MD, Meinardi MM, Schweitzer DH: Hyposensitization therapy with autologous semen in two Dutch caucasian males: beneficial effects in Postorgasmic Illness Syndrome (POIS; Part 2). J. Sex Med. 2011; 8 (4): 1171-70 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Waldinger MD, Schweitzer DH: Postorgasmic illness syndrome: Two cases. J Sex Marital Ther. 2002; 28 (3): 251-5 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to state that we do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Waldinger MD and Schweitzer DH. Reviewer Report For: Post-orgasmic illness syndrome: a case report [version 1; peer review: 3 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :113 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.1184.r964 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-113/v1#referee-response-964 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 13 Jun 2013 abdalla attia , Minoufiya University, Shibin El Kom, Egypt 13 Jun 2013 Author Response Dear Prof Waldinger, Thank you for your review of this paper. Although we respect your opinion, we are disappointed and surprised at your comments on the article, particularly as you state ... Continue reading Dear Prof Waldinger, Thank you for your review of this paper. Although we respect your opinion, we are disappointed and surprised at your comments on the article, particularly as you state that you would encourage further publications on POIS. We discovered our case of POIS at the end of 2009. At this point, there seemed to be only one similar publication (Waldinger Schweitzer, 2002) on POIS but this did not refer to atopy. We found that our patient was atopic. In addition to the cognitive and body pains he feels post orgasm, his atopy flares up, producing eye irritation and severe body itching. After preparing our first report in December 2009, and before publication, we did try to contact you for your opinion as the sole other reporter of this syndrome but received no response from repeated attempts. In 2010, we shared this case report at the ISSM forum. To our knowledge, this was before any other published report of atopy in relation to POIS. Many of our colleagues who are ISSM members commented and discussed the case at this forum, one of them being Prof. David Goldmeier. This case report was also presented as a poster at the 20th World Congress for Sexual Health, held in June 12-16, 2011, in Glasgow, UK, and was published in the conference proceedings. On the basis of this history, we suggest that we may have been the first to suggest that atopy may be a precipitating factor for POIS and that this condition should be checked for in any POIS cases. We would also like to respond to your other comment regarding the use of NSAIDs, tramadol and SSRIs in this condition. The reference to Waldinger et al. 2002 in this section is related to the sentence ‘There is currently no effective treatment for POIS’ and we apologise if this is unclear. We agree that this reference should be corrected so that it is attached to the correct statement. Our patient did not get any benefits from trying these drugs in contrast to the results of Ashby Goldmeier (2010). In regards to testing for allergic reactions, we would like to ask whether you think that the skin prick test is reliable as a diagnostic test for allergy. Is it valid to conclude that POIS patients are allergic to their own semen on the basis of this test and suggest that this is the cause of POIS? We would suggest that skin prick tests can lead to many false positive and negative results. As andrologists we know (and there is a body of evidence for this), that semen is regarded as foreign by the body and the immune system. Immune tolerance to semen is not present. Semen is separated from the immune system by a very competent blood–testis barrier that is formed by the highly efficient Sertoli–Sertoli cell junctional complex. We would suggest that this is not a ‘hypothetical membrane’. In certain known pathological conditions this barrier may be broken. If this occurs, auto-antibodies can form against semen. Thus, if a subject’s own semen is then injected intradermally, a reaction may take place as it is recognized as a foreign antigen. We would suggest that many people would get a positive reaction on the basis of such a prick test even though they do not suffer from POIS. If allergy to the patient’s own semen is a suspected cause of POIS, it will be necessary to measure serum and seminal plasma anti-sperm antibodies; IgA, IgG and IgM, to conduct immuno bead and MAR testing and to report on the patient’s seminogram changes. This might also suggest that POIS patients would be mostly infertile due to formation of anti sperm antibodies. Given these concerns regarding prick testing, we do not believe that the cause of POIS is allergy to one’s own semen and also have doubts about the use of hyposensitization as a possible treatment. Dear Prof Waldinger, Thank you for your review of this paper. Although we respect your opinion, we are disappointed and surprised at your comments on the article, particularly as you state that you would encourage further publications on POIS. We discovered our case of POIS at the end of 2009. At this point, there seemed to be only one similar publication (Waldinger Schweitzer, 2002) on POIS but this did not refer to atopy. We found that our patient was atopic. In addition to the cognitive and body pains he feels post orgasm, his atopy flares up, producing eye irritation and severe body itching. After preparing our first report in December 2009, and before publication, we did try to contact you for your opinion as the sole other reporter of this syndrome but received no response from repeated attempts. In 2010, we shared this case report at the ISSM forum. To our knowledge, this was before any other published report of atopy in relation to POIS. Many of our colleagues who are ISSM members commented and discussed the case at this forum, one of them being Prof. David Goldmeier. This case report was also presented as a poster at the 20th World Congress for Sexual Health, held in June 12-16, 2011, in Glasgow, UK, and was published in the conference proceedings. On the basis of this history, we suggest that we may have been the first to suggest that atopy may be a precipitating factor for POIS and that this condition should be checked for in any POIS cases. We would also like to respond to your other comment regarding the use of NSAIDs, tramadol and SSRIs in this condition. The reference to Waldinger et al. 2002 in this section is related to the sentence ‘There is currently no effective treatment for POIS’ and we apologise if this is unclear. We agree that this reference should be corrected so that it is attached to the correct statement. Our patient did not get any benefits from trying these drugs in contrast to the results of Ashby Goldmeier (2010). In regards to testing for allergic reactions, we would like to ask whether you think that the skin prick test is reliable as a diagnostic test for allergy. Is it valid to conclude that POIS patients are allergic to their own semen on the basis of this test and suggest that this is the cause of POIS? We would suggest that skin prick tests can lead to many false positive and negative results. As andrologists we know (and there is a body of evidence for this), that semen is regarded as foreign by the body and the immune system. Immune tolerance to semen is not present. Semen is separated from the immune system by a very competent blood–testis barrier that is formed by the highly efficient Sertoli–Sertoli cell junctional complex. We would suggest that this is not a ‘hypothetical membrane’. In certain known pathological conditions this barrier may be broken. If this occurs, auto-antibodies can form against semen. Thus, if a subject’s own semen is then injected intradermally, a reaction may take place as it is recognized as a foreign antigen. We would suggest that many people would get a positive reaction on the basis of such a prick test even though they do not suffer from POIS. If allergy to the patient’s own semen is a suspected cause of POIS, it will be necessary to measure serum and seminal plasma anti-sperm antibodies; IgA, IgG and IgM, to conduct immuno bead and MAR testing and to report on the patient’s seminogram changes. This might also suggest that POIS patients would be mostly infertile due to formation of anti sperm antibodies. Given these concerns regarding prick testing, we do not believe that the cause of POIS is allergy to one’s own semen and also have doubts about the use of hyposensitization as a possible treatment. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 13 Jun 2013 abdalla attia , Minoufiya University, Shibin El Kom, Egypt 13 Jun 2013 Author Response Dear Prof Waldinger, Thank you for your review of this paper. Although we respect your opinion, we are disappointed and surprised at your comments on the article, particularly as you state ... Continue reading Dear Prof Waldinger, Thank you for your review of this paper. Although we respect your opinion, we are disappointed and surprised at your comments on the article, particularly as you state that you would encourage further publications on POIS. We discovered our case of POIS at the end of 2009. At this point, there seemed to be only one similar publication (Waldinger Schweitzer, 2002) on POIS but this did not refer to atopy. We found that our patient was atopic. In addition to the cognitive and body pains he feels post orgasm, his atopy flares up, producing eye irritation and severe body itching. After preparing our first report in December 2009, and before publication, we did try to contact you for your opinion as the sole other reporter of this syndrome but received no response from repeated attempts. In 2010, we shared this case report at the ISSM forum. To our knowledge, this was before any other published report of atopy in relation to POIS. Many of our colleagues who are ISSM members commented and discussed the case at this forum, one of them being Prof. David Goldmeier. This case report was also presented as a poster at the 20th World Congress for Sexual Health, held in June 12-16, 2011, in Glasgow, UK, and was published in the conference proceedings. On the basis of this history, we suggest that we may have been the first to suggest that atopy may be a precipitating factor for POIS and that this condition should be checked for in any POIS cases. We would also like to respond to your other comment regarding the use of NSAIDs, tramadol and SSRIs in this condition. The reference to Waldinger et al. 2002 in this section is related to the sentence ‘There is currently no effective treatment for POIS’ and we apologise if this is unclear. We agree that this reference should be corrected so that it is attached to the correct statement. Our patient did not get any benefits from trying these drugs in contrast to the results of Ashby Goldmeier (2010). In regards to testing for allergic reactions, we would like to ask whether you think that the skin prick test is reliable as a diagnostic test for allergy. Is it valid to conclude that POIS patients are allergic to their own semen on the basis of this test and suggest that this is the cause of POIS? We would suggest that skin prick tests can lead to many false positive and negative results. As andrologists we know (and there is a body of evidence for this), that semen is regarded as foreign by the body and the immune system. Immune tolerance to semen is not present. Semen is separated from the immune system by a very competent blood–testis barrier that is formed by the highly efficient Sertoli–Sertoli cell junctional complex. We would suggest that this is not a ‘hypothetical membrane’. In certain known pathological conditions this barrier may be broken. If this occurs, auto-antibodies can form against semen. Thus, if a subject’s own semen is then injected intradermally, a reaction may take place as it is recognized as a foreign antigen. We would suggest that many people would get a positive reaction on the basis of such a prick test even though they do not suffer from POIS. If allergy to the patient’s own semen is a suspected cause of POIS, it will be necessary to measure serum and seminal plasma anti-sperm antibodies; IgA, IgG and IgM, to conduct immuno bead and MAR testing and to report on the patient’s seminogram changes. This might also suggest that POIS patients would be mostly infertile due to formation of anti sperm antibodies. Given these concerns regarding prick testing, we do not believe that the cause of POIS is allergy to one’s own semen and also have doubts about the use of hyposensitization as a possible treatment. Dear Prof Waldinger, Thank you for your review of this paper. Although we respect your opinion, we are disappointed and surprised at your comments on the article, particularly as you state that you would encourage further publications on POIS. We discovered our case of POIS at the end of 2009. At this point, there seemed to be only one similar publication (Waldinger Schweitzer, 2002) on POIS but this did not refer to atopy. We found that our patient was atopic. In addition to the cognitive and body pains he feels post orgasm, his atopy flares up, producing eye irritation and severe body itching. After preparing our first report in December 2009, and before publication, we did try to contact you for your opinion as the sole other reporter of this syndrome but received no response from repeated attempts. In 2010, we shared this case report at the ISSM forum. To our knowledge, this was before any other published report of atopy in relation to POIS. Many of our colleagues who are ISSM members commented and discussed the case at this forum, one of them being Prof. David Goldmeier. This case report was also presented as a poster at the 20th World Congress for Sexual Health, held in June 12-16, 2011, in Glasgow, UK, and was published in the conference proceedings. On the basis of this history, we suggest that we may have been the first to suggest that atopy may be a precipitating factor for POIS and that this condition should be checked for in any POIS cases. We would also like to respond to your other comment regarding the use of NSAIDs, tramadol and SSRIs in this condition. The reference to Waldinger et al. 2002 in this section is related to the sentence ‘There is currently no effective treatment for POIS’ and we apologise if this is unclear. We agree that this reference should be corrected so that it is attached to the correct statement. Our patient did not get any benefits from trying these drugs in contrast to the results of Ashby Goldmeier (2010). In regards to testing for allergic reactions, we would like to ask whether you think that the skin prick test is reliable as a diagnostic test for allergy. Is it valid to conclude that POIS patients are allergic to their own semen on the basis of this test and suggest that this is the cause of POIS? We would suggest that skin prick tests can lead to many false positive and negative results. As andrologists we know (and there is a body of evidence for this), that semen is regarded as foreign by the body and the immune system. Immune tolerance to semen is not present. Semen is separated from the immune system by a very competent blood–testis barrier that is formed by the highly efficient Sertoli–Sertoli cell junctional complex. We would suggest that this is not a ‘hypothetical membrane’. In certain known pathological conditions this barrier may be broken. If this occurs, auto-antibodies can form against semen. Thus, if a subject’s own semen is then injected intradermally, a reaction may take place as it is recognized as a foreign antigen. We would suggest that many people would get a positive reaction on the basis of such a prick test even though they do not suffer from POIS. If allergy to the patient’s own semen is a suspected cause of POIS, it will be necessary to measure serum and seminal plasma anti-sperm antibodies; IgA, IgG and IgM, to conduct immuno bead and MAR testing and to report on the patient’s seminogram changes. This might also suggest that POIS patients would be mostly infertile due to formation of anti sperm antibodies. Given these concerns regarding prick testing, we do not believe that the cause of POIS is allergy to one’s own semen and also have doubts about the use of hyposensitization as a possible treatment. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Goldmeier D. Reviewer Report For: Post-orgasmic illness syndrome: a case report [version 1; peer review: 3 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :113 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.1184.r946 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-113/v1#referee-response-946 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 14 May 2013 David Goldmeier , Jefferiss Wing, Jane Wadsworth Sexual Function Clinic, St Mary's Hospital, London, UK Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.1184.r946 POIS may start up to a couple of hours after orgasm. What is the evidence for an allergic cause in this man- allergy history is very common in the general population? If allergy is the cause, have you tried him on high ... Continue reading READ ALL 