This is an interesting paper that is hard to classify, as it doesn't fit neatly into any one category of article. It is a mix of best practice recommendations for and a review of online networking, data sharing, and research activity distribution tools for scientists - a blend of fact and opinion, part editorial and part research paper. On the plus side, this is a very helpful overview and evaluation of many of the ever-increasing tools and services available to help scientists promote and share their research online, from a group of people who understand why and how to use them. Gathering all this information into a single paper is a real service to the community and should, I hope, prompt more scientists to follow the authors' advice, and : "encourage further exploration to find out what tools work best for you to meet your objectives, and even form the foundation to discover new or other tools not identified in this piece." However, the paper is weakened by the fact that there are a number of points when the authors express their own opinion without providing any evidence to back it up. For example, from the Introduction: "We believe there are a number of reasons that most scientists do not use these tools. It could be because few people would even think of using online media tools for their scientific research, or because they do not understand the potential value. The lack of credit for sharing pre-published data, code or other forms of research outputs, especially in terms of citations that can contribute to career progression, may also be an issue. Maybe scientists do not see this activity as a valuable use of their time or they require initial guidance to help navigate use of these tools.” Or, from Categories of Tools (Networking): "While LinkedIn has a primary role to form connections and expose your career to potential employers and partners, it is likely the de facto networking tool for many professional scientists." These and other unsupported statements are most likely correct, however, they would be more credible if supported by evidence in the form of published research, as is the case for much of the paper. By the authors' own acknowledgement, the article is based largely on their own experiences. They are clearly expert and long-term users and consumers of the tools and services they describe, which makes the information they share very helpful, especially for those who are less expert. But their experience is also, inevitably, limited by their own geography (USA and UK) and specialisms (chemistry). So the challenges of sharing via social media in China, for example, only get a brief mention. And as they point out: "these are not necessarily the best tools available for every individual scientist’s use case... The most appropriate sites for physicists and biologists to share their data may well be very different." Overall, I found this a very thorough and helpful contribution to the literature on online tools and services for researchers. It would be even more valuable if could be updated regularly with information about new tools and services, taking into account the needs of a wider population of researchers by discipline and region. 