I read the paper with great interest. The authors have uncovered a plausible mechanism by which increased mortality in late feeding period cattle might occur when fed a commercially approved beta-2-adrenergic agonist. The product was withdrawn from the U.S. feeding market during the midst of this study in 2013, disrupting the study itself; however, the work that had occurred to that point provides a compelling glimpse into the potential pathology that was occurring when comparing matched treated and control animals. These are NOT cases and controls (in the traditional sense of a case-control study design); rather, the study is a frequency matched and closed cohort study with the matched control set drawn from non-treated pens of cattle concurrently to the 'exposed' animals (not: cases using epidemiological terminology) and the latter treated as determined by the feedlot manager. Thus, it is not an experimental design, it is an observational design. Also, it is not a case-control study, the closest design that fits is a cohort design (arguably, closed in that animals become at risk once the pen in which they reside is assigned to receive the beta-agonist and the control (unexposed) animals are determined to be in pens not receiving the BAA). An in vivo catheter-based arterial pressure assay was performed in the chutes, as well as a later post-mortem (at slaughter) matched comparison of ventricular wall mass versus carcass weight. The study became rather lop-sided/unbalanced during a particularly hot and stressful period which unfortunately coincided with the product withdrawal from the market. This has left some deficits in the potential statistical power of the study. Nevertheless, the findings are considerable and of interest and it is important that these results be presented with transparency and completeness. To this points I have some concerns (see below) The authors should present the estimates for each of the parameters (plus, n=? animals and variances/standard errors) and for each of the groups. It is not enough to express the differences or ratios since the reader needs to do a comparison with expected norms to determine whether these reflect biological reality. For example, the diastolic pressures are not described (simply their differences) whereas the mean (overall, across diastolic and systolic) and also systolic by itself are presented openly. We need the diastolic pressures by group. We need to know the LVS mass, the carcass weights, etc and not just the ratios and differences between groups. Please also tabulate the cardiac troponin data. These data are intriguing but not easily understood in the narrative presentation. Why should we see the tabulated data for LVS and carcass weight? Because the BAA product increases carcass weight substantially and could affect the ratio independent of the septal mass (likely biasing it towards the null, I think...?; and, the reader needs to know). A carefully crafted table or two would make short work of this and greatly improve the paper and its readability. Unless I have overlooked it, Figure 1 neglects to mention in the legend what the solid diamonds and clear circles represent. The authors mention that 8 ZS and 8 CS (exposed and unexposed animals, respectively) were not included in statistical analysis due to previous bouts of respiratory disease. However, later these animals appeared to have been discussed despite this refrain (see paragraph 2 of the section under pulmonary arterial pressures)? I remain confused by this exclusion statement then the statistical comparisons based on pulmonary conditions? Full disclosure: I have co-authored previous work identifying increased mortality in cattle fed BAAs (not just the B(2)AA studied in the article) and that work is cited in the paper (citation 9). That study was not mechanistic in nature; rather, it explored mortality experience across many hundreds of thousands of animals. The authors mention the 40-50% attributable fraction in that paper by Loneragan et al (2014), but that number applied also to the other commercially available beta-agonist (so both products, not just the products studied here). It is important to note that the attributable fraction applied only during the period in which the product was fed (last 21-28 days); in other words, earlier mortality due to respiratory disease and other calfhood diseases are not included in the denominator in Loneragan et al (2014) but the sentence almost implies that the 40-50% AF in that paper was across the entire feeding period (it is not). It is very important that we consider that animals dying in the late feeding period (where all the feed costs have accrued and the excessive protein waste is greatest) are accorded appropriate and clear mortality attribution. 