The article by Knipp et al . reports the results of an extensive investigation of the nitrophorin isoform NP7. The authors have resolved the X-ray crystallographic structure of NP7 at different pH values and ligation states, measured the ligand rebinding kinetics after laser photolysis of CO bound NP7 at different pH values and performed MD simulations on different NP7 conformations to assess the degree of flexibility of different protein domains and the topology of inner protein cavities that are shown to play a significant role in the binding of ligands to the protein. The presented results are new and significant to our understanding of the structure-function-dynamics relationship in the NP7 nitrophorin. However, the paper would benefit from a more clear discussion of an important aspect that emerges from the results presented by authors: the charge distribution across NP7, which peculiarly determines the ability of this particular nitrophorin isoform to bind negatively charged membranes, is likely to significantly affect both the way NP7 molecules are arranged in the crystalline state and their overall 3D structure in the crystal. As stated by the authors, the surprisingly small differences between the crystal structure of NP7-H2O at pH 5.8 and 7.8 could be due to the overwhelming contribution of electrostatic interactions between neighboring proteins within the crystal. The authors refrained from using their NP7 X-ray structures as starting points for their MD simulations since they admittedly do not account for the conformational change expected to occur upon increase of the pH from 5.8 to 7.8. Overall, these findings seem to indicate that, in the case of NP7 nitrophorin, the structural models retrieved from X-ray crystallography fail to accurately describe the 3D structure of the protein in solution. It would be worth to better clarify and discuss this point in the paper. A further important result of the paper comes from the analysis of ligand rebinding kinetics after photolysis of NP7-CO (presumably at a much lower protein concentration, at which interparticle interactions are negligible). A large fraction of CO ligands rebind geminately in the picosecond time-scale with a biphasic time course. Moreover, nanosecond flash-photolysis experiments clearly show that ligand migration through protein cavities modulates the rebinding process at longer time-scales. Although the main findings are clear already from inspection of the raw data, the procedure used to match the kinetics measured in the sub-nanosecond time-scale with those measured at longer time-scales seems problematic (as also noted by Marten H. Vos in his review of the paper). The detailed procedure used to match the two datasets should be added to the paper. In particular, a supplementary figure showing the two-exponentials fit of the picosecond data and its extrapolation beyond 2 ns, would be helpful in this respect. It would be also useful to have an idea of how much a different choice of the relative scaling between the two datasets would affect the estimation of microscopic rates. Minor points: as noted by Suman Kundu in his review of the paper there are sentences that need to be corrected in the abstract; apart from the second sentence (line 3), also the last sentence (line 17) Finally, the topological distribution of pockets located around the heme as well as from inner cavities clearly needs to be corrected. page 3, last paragraph of the Introduction: Here we report on seven crystal structures of NP7 . Only 6 different crystal structures are described in the paper and in Table 1. the caption of Figure 12 should be corrected in comparison to Figure 11: T1 should be T2. 