This paper acknowledges the importance of having a scale that distinguishes paranormal belief from paranormal experience and develops a concise measure of twenty items. However, to bring it up to an acceptable standard, the following points should be addressed: The introduction is severely lacking any review of previous scales and how different factors have been conceptualised in the past. The development of the NEBS should be in the methods section and not the introduction. The methods sections would benefit from traditional subheadings. The results section contains demographic data which should be in the participant's section in the methods. An exploratory factor analysis would have been useful on the first sample. For study one, the CFA should come first followed by test retests. Double-check the fit indices (particularly the CFI, the cut of is listed as .90 when in fact it should be .95) and was the chi-square significant? Study two – why are there wellbeing measures? They are only mentioned briefly via a table in the results. The items relating to experience are all the same. The participant is asked if they have experienced something directly after they have been asked if they believe it; this could present a confound. Overall, while this paper offers an interesting premise, there are several flaws. The scale itself does not have dedicated experience items that refer to specific phenomena, which is problematic. The methodology itself is also flawed. I suspect an Exploratory Factor Analysis (EFA) would reveal that the factors would be around the phenomena rather than the dichotomy of belief and experience. I.e., a person, who believes in particular phenomena is more likely to experience them; therefore, the factors will demonstrate this. I would recommend that this be more of an exploratory study and that an EFA be run on the first sample at the very least. However, this would probably not give the desired outcome. The items that relate to experience should ideally be able to be answered in isolation and not be dependent on the belief items. This could act as a prime, with people who state they believe in something when asked if they have experienced it directly after being more likely to agree. 