The paper by Delory et al., "archiDART v3.0: A new data analysis pipeline allowing the topological analysis of plant root systems" describes an R package archiDART that includes methods allowing analysis root topology using persistent homology. The paper describes the novelty of the package really well and it is providing new and exciting ways for the community to differentiate between various root architecture types. The Shiny app developed is illustrating the possibilities of the new package very neatly. I do have few questions/suggestions: When computing a pairwise bottleneck distance matrix between individual files, what kind of statistical analysis can be used to decide whether a distance between two genotypes/groups is statistically significant? The authors could at least put a suggestion of the follow-up analysis. That would be extremely useful for the part of a scientific community that works with mutants/introgression lines and examines root architecture to answer hypothesis driven questions. The authors compare the classical root traits with persistent homology using PCA and non-metric multidimensional scaling and showing that the later is resulting in clear differences between fibrous and tap-root root types. I think that this difference could result in using PCA vs NMDS rather than the input. For the fair comparison, the value of two different inputs in distinguishing between two different root types, should be compared using the same method for reduction in dimensionality. Although the persistent homology is an alternative way of differentiating between the root types, the method is still having limited capability in distinguishing between "mock", "shallow" and "steep" root types (as shown in the archiDart shiny app). The same types are also not being differentiated using PCA for the "classical" root phenotypes. It would be very helpful if the authors state the limitations of using the homology (like - problems with implementing the root angle) and how exactly is the persistent homology complementary to the more classical analysis of root system architecture. There is a glitch in the app when user removes the genotypes to be plotted in the tabs "archiDRAW" and archiHOMOLOGY". 