This paper aims at ranking protein structures in order to differentiate native protein structures from non-native/decoy models. For this, the authors employ machine learning approaches (Support Vector Machines) and assign ranks, based on regression analysis, to these models using Protein Structure Networks. This study includes the side chain interactions of amino acid residues unlike the previous network based approaches for detecting the most native-like structures from a huge set of decoys. The authors have built upon their earlier work employing Protein Structure Networks (PSN) to differentiate the native conformations from decoy/modelled structures; PSN parameters (93 network features) along with main chain hydrogen bonds were used to built the SVM classifier. The web tool provides wide and simple accessibility of the aforementioned methods to the larger community. Non-specialists should find it useful. We have the following comments: Use of network metrics mostly based on of higher communities and largest cluster, and the average clustering coefficients have been discussed by the authors. A discussion as to why these particular metrics have been chosen over so many other available network metrics would certainly be helpful for researchers with a keen interest in network theory. The methodology of ranking structures could certainly be presented in more detail. The part preceding Finally, the model which showed the best pairwise accuracy of 98.2% was selected for further analysis would do much better with a more detailed explanation, especially about how LibSVM is useful here. It would be good to know the computational complexity as well as advantages of the present approach over other accessible packages. A table summarizing this would be a highly desirable addition especially because the authors state in the Conclusion that this is an important advancement from the previous qualitative assessments and would be helpful in cases where one needs to extract the best structure from a set of closely related structures.