The authors aimed to develop a hydophobicity scale which optimally reflects properties of amino acids residues/amino acids that are relevant for folded proteins. The long term goal was to use such a scale to estimate hydrophobicity-based protein sequence relatedness from a global alignment in order to improve identification of structural homologs with less than 25% sequence identity. The authors have identified eight properties (so called property classes ) of amino acids relevant for folded proteins by recognizing distinct patterns in a series of scatter-plots that plotted many hydrophobicity indices and other physico-chemical properties of amino acids/ amino acid residues against each other. Apparently, different property classes were visually recognized in scatter-plots after the “linear cluster of amino acids”-fingerprint was found (clusters of amino acids with similar physico-chemical properties that are aligned along distinct imaginary lines in a scatter-plot). The final set of plots from which eight property classes were derived included: scatter-plots of the hydrophobicity scale that was developed by the authors versus a) the area per specific volume of each amino acid (property classes 1 and 2) or b) the specific absolute entropy (classes 3 and 4); c) the plot of delta G of burial of amino acid secondary group versus number of atoms in a group (class 5); and finally, ambiguously defined “classes #6, #7 and #8 were derived from 49 fundamental aminoacid properties and derived scales that are based upon an analysis with Analysis of Patterns (ANOPA)” . It is this set of eight property classes that the authors have used as dependent variables in multiple linear regression models (MLR) of candidate hydrophobic scales. The measure of goodness of fit of a MLR model (R 2 value) was used to identify optimal hydrophobic scale(s) as according to the authors the MLR’s R 2 value represents “rigorous test for a robust, high performance hydrophobicity scale” . The rationale for such assumption was that for all tested hydrophobicity scales, R 2 value of MLR models were higher than R 2 values of simple regression models using either Moelbert’s average aminoacid solvent Accessible Surface Area (ASA) or Fauchere Pliska free energy of amino-acid transfer from n-Octanol to water (Gtow) as the dependent variable. However, I disagree with the authors on the MLR R 2 rationale as I have concerns about appropriateness of data analysis (see below). In addition, the reporting in the manuscript should be substantially improved. Major comments Data analysis Comment 1 Throughout the paper description of MLR models is very confusing and it is not clear what models were actually run (what was the dependent and independent variables; also the estimated coefficients and statistical significance of independent variables were not shown for a single model). As already stated, it seems that MLR models were mainly used to model different hydrophobic scales using eight property classes as independent variables. However on the page 7 the authors state “The amino-acid property classes are vector sets of clusters/linear families of curves in multiple linear regression relationships between two (or more) amino-acid physico-chemical properties.” which is very confusing – it seems that in addition to eight property classes, a few additional independent variables (amino-acid physico-chemical properties) were also included in a model or it was the multivariate regression model that was used (if yes – what were dependent variables)? If indeed the authors used MLR models as claimed, this means that for a model with 20 observations (20 amino acids) at least eight independent variables were included in a model. Moreover, as majority of these property classes were actually ordinal variables, the number of independent variables included in MLR model should have been even higher (due to introduction of dummy variables). Consequently the sample size of these models was far too small to estimate model’s parameters precisely, and the reported R 2 was actually quite inflated (due to an overfitted model but also a large number of independent variables that the authors did not adjusted for when comparing simple linear regression models and MLR ). In addition, there was a problem of multicollinearity between independent variables which additionally inflated MLR’s R 2 (based on the Table 2 Kendall tau coefficient between i.e. PC2 and PC4 is 0.82, P0.001). Therefore the main result of this paper which is based on assumption that the property classes of amino acid residues identified through ‘linear-clusters’ represent “real properties of amino-acids within context of folded proteins” is not based on validated assumption. Comment 2 The authors have used a measure of goodness of fit of a regression model, R 2 to compare strength of linear relationship(s) modelled in different regression models (including simple and multiple linear regression models). However, R 2 is an overused statistics for linear regression analysis and additional metrics are required to get the whole picture. In particular, it is a Pearson correlation coefficient between paired data (i.e. two hydrophobicity scales) that quantifies the degree to which two variables are related and is a proper statistical measure of the strength of a linear relationship. Linear regression models find the best-fit line that predicts dependent variable from independent variable(s) with R 2 actually representing squared Pearson correlation of the fitted values and the observed values. Reporting Comment 3 A reader should know precisely which scatter plots were screened for “linear-cluster” pattern. This means that the entire set of hydrophobic scales and other physicochemical properties of amino acid residues/amino acids that were collected from the literature and used for generation of these plots should be listed in the paper. Also, it should be specified how many scatter plots were finally generated (in example: N*(N-1)/2 where N – number of hydrophobic scales or physicochemical amino acid properties that were collected, ...). Comment 4 Since the eight property classes of amino acid residues are the most important novelty of this paper, the process of their identification should be clearly described in a sufficient detail. In particular: What was the reasoning behind the assumption that the property classes of amino acid residues identified through ‘linear-clusters’ represent “real properties of amino-acids within context of folded proteins”. Or there was no assumption and the fact that the regression models of all hydrophobicity scales exhibited the highest R2 values when these property classes were used as independent variables actually justified such interpretation. If latter was the case, such reasoning would not be justified (see comments on multiple linear regression analysis) The authors should describe the method they used to identify linear clusters on a plot (i.e. visual identification, followed by analysis of amino acid physicochemical/biochemical properties in clusters and regression-analysis of clusters that confirmed the cluster status or something else) How did the authors end up with the final set of 6 (or 3?) scatter plots from which they have derived their property classes? Were “linear-clusters” identified only in these plots or did the authors select the final plots based on relevance of plotted variables in folded proteins. If latter was true – what was the criteria they used to identify the most relevant scatter-plots All property classes including the classes #6, #7, and #8 should be precisely defined. The description “ classes #6, #7 and #8 were derived from 49 fundamental amino acid properties and derived scales that are based upon an analysis with Analysis of Patterns (ANOPA) ” is unacceptable. Which of 49 fundamental amino acid properties and their derived scales were used, and how, to identify property classes from #6 to #8. Scatter-plots that were used for generation of classes from 5 to 8 should be shown. 5 - Comments on the reporting style The Introduction section is quite short – the authors should elaborate more on relevant physico-chemical properties of amino acids and their importance in protein folding in this section. There are parts of the Introduction in the Results section (the first paragraph) and the Discussion section (alignment matrices). The hydrophobic scale that was chosen as the optimal one was normalized average of three published hydrophobicity scales that were found “most robust in correlation analyses” with robustness vaguely defined in the Methods section as associations to “multiple fundamental properties of the 20 natural amino acids using multi-variate statistical procedures, thermodynamics and biophysical chemistry considerations”. It is just latter, at the very end of the Results section that one can find out that “robust” scales are actually those whose MLR models using property classes as dependent variables exhibited highest R2 values. The Methods section should be written more clearly. Table 2 – The labelling of Table 2 should be improved as authors keep explaining what is presented in which column of the Table 2 throughout the Results section. 