The authors performed a study on the effect of caffeine intake on postural sway. They compared two situations: intake of caffeine by a pil (200 mg) and intake of caffeine (160 mg) by an energy drink containing additional ingredients with caffeine of which the amount of additional caffeine and modulating effects are unknown. They want to investigate whether the "energy blend" in energy drinks has a different effect on postural sway in different sensory modalities, compared to intake of pure caffeine. Given the frequent consumption of energy drinks, this seems like a valid question. What I would have expected, though, is a stronger motivation for why exactly postural control/ postural sway should be investigated. Do you expect an increased risk of falling or is it related to safety issues? The study design is appropriate, although the sample size is relatively small. Subjects are their own controls, which makes the study stronger. It should be motivated, however, why the dose of caffeine in the energy drink (160 mg) is lower than the dose in the pil (200 mg). Why was the pil not dosed at 160 mg as well? Regarding the methodology, some additional details should be provided. Resolution and measurement frequency of the MatScan should be provided. Furthermore, did you analyse the entire 30s or leave out the first 10 s to eliminate start-up effects? Also provide size and density of the foam pad. You report that COP and sway data are outcome parameters. This is not specific enough. The reader would require to know which outcome parameters (amplitude, range, path, speed, area, ...) were used. Furthermore, information should be provided on preprocessing of the COP trajectory, e.g. filtering (which filter type, cut-off frequency, ...) as well as the formulas used to calculate the outcome parameters. Units of measurement should definitely be included when reporting outcome measurements. Statistical analysis is only partly appropriate. It is not clear whether the quality of data was checked and whether outliers were removed. The database contains some strange values. Furthermore, it is not correct to perform a paired t-test to compare two groups. This would require an independent samples t-test. The main statistical analysis was a MANOVA, which seems appropriate to answer the research question. Please define the model: which variables were dependents? which were factors? What main effects and possible interaction effects were investigated? I do not feel conclusions are very well supported by the data, which partially might relate to uncertainty about what parameters are actually investigated. In the tables it is unclear whether reported p-values are subject to Bonferonni correction or not. Furthermore, in the discussion results are reported as an increase in postural sway (p. 7/10) although results are not significant. If the difference is not significant, you cannot report it as an increase. The conclusion is reported correctly in that the data are not able to indicate a significant increase in postural sway after the consumption of caffeine. However, the title of the manuscript makes a very strong statement that suggests otherwise and this creates confusion. 