I would like to highlight some points that could be improved: The title of the manuscript creates an expectation that is not answered. In the manuscript is finished stating that further studies could help answer this question. Methodologically this is not correct. Suggestion to change the title to: Epidemiology of zoonotic tick-borne diseases in Latin Amrica. The authors mention that Brazil is the only country in Latin America that TBDs are mandatory reporting. In Brazil Spotted Fever is diseases the mandatory notification. Authors need to provide the correct source of information. They should mention the ordinance that regulates the notification in Brazil and that is available at this Link . About the title question: Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg? Even in Brazil with the best data compared to other Latin American countries it was still not possible to answer this question. In order to measure these subrecords, it would be advisable to evaluate different sources of information through retrospective studies that include information on patients with clinical suspicions with differential diagnoses for TBDs. In Brazil different information systems are used for different functionalities. There is a system that records the notification diseases (Notification Disease Information System), another records the deaths (Mortality Information System), another the laboratory diagnosis requests (Laboratory Environment Manager). To evaluate subrecords it would be interesting to crosscheck data that takes into account the information from the different information systems. Ideally a system of clinical suspicion and laboratory investigation based on a syndromic diagnosis would be the most effective for detecting TBDs cases. Finally, the updated review highlights very important points, such as the lack of information, the need to assess the burden and impact of TBDs and the advances made so far and the challenges, especially in diagnosis, clinical and laboratory. Therefore, I consider this article appropriate for indexing. 