The paper described a an IgY-based lateral flow immunoassay for detection of fumonisin B in maize. In general, the paper is more like an experimental report than scientific study in my opinion. The paper provided little new information for readers and the commercial products of LFIA for FBs are already available in the market with high performances. All techniques used in the study are conventional and no any improvement was achieved. The LFIAs for the rapid detection of FBs are reported by using many probes not only gold. The performance of the LFIA developed by the authors in term of sensitivity, specificity and accuracy are not comparable with those of reports. The novelty of the study relied on the first report of usage of IgY in LFIA for FB in my opinion, however, the production of IgY to FB already reported by the authors. The paper should show the advantages and disadvantages of usage of IgY in LFIA. And there are no comparative data with other antibodies like antibody from mouse or rabbit. Exactly, the production of IgY to FB is also a well established techniques. The main body of the manuscript is the optimization of LFIA conditions, the procedure of optimization is necessary for any analytical methods and not the point of the study. I do not think the IgY used in the study is the first choice since the affinity and specificity of IgY is inferior in comparison with reported antibodies, which may result in inaccuracy determination. The authors should provide the confirmation data for protein conjugates, gold conjugates if they are firstly reported or just cited the reference if these data already reported. For LFIAs, the gold-antibody is important, why the authors have not optimized the preparation of gold-protein conjugates? The low sensitivity of the LFIAs maybe derived from the coating antigens and suggest the authors should evaluate different coating antigens differentiating with ratio, hapten and conjugation methods. In addition, the authors should test the cross-reactivity with FB3 since the analog is available and a potential interferent. In conclusion, the paper did not describe a new experimental, observational, or computational method, test or procedure. I have to be against indexing and hope the suggestions could help the authors improve the study. 