This manuscript nicely documents the molecular basis for an intragenic suppressor of the rpn12a-1 exon-trap mutation of Arabidopsis , which weakens a chimeric 5’ splice site that fuses the RPN12 open reading frame to the NPTII coding region in the original mutation. These authors had previously shown that the T-DNA insertion of rpn12a-1 results in a competition between 3’ splicing of RPN12A RNA (using a donor splice site that overlaps with the stop codon and the acceptor splice site upstream of its NPTII coding region of the T-DNA) and its normal polyadenylation. They had suggested that a fraction of the mutant transcripts encoded a non-functional RPN12A-NPTII fusion protein that, upon insertion into the proteasome, altered its activity. Hence, in the original mutant, overall altered proteasome activity resulted in pleiotropic phenotypes associated with cytokinin resistance compared to wild type. In this suppressor line, a point mutation 5 nucleotides within the cryptic intron altered this competing splicing, thereby restoring more efficient polyadenylation and production of enough functional RPN12a protein to restore fully functional proteasome activity. Hence, this analysis confirms the initial interpretation of the source of phenotypes associated with rpn12a-1 , and documents an interesting example of alteration through mutation of a balance between 3’ splicing and polyadenylation of a precursor RNA. The design of this work, protocols and results are well presented and justify the conclusions. However, I had a few minor questions on this work: How many suppressors were identified in this analysis? Were other intragenic suppressors identified? Considering the information provided here, one would suspect that sor1 is a dominant mutation. Is it? If it is, has an experiment been carried out to show that a transgenic copy of the suppressed rpn12a-1 sor rescues the cytokinin-resistance phenotype of rpn12a-1? Analysis of kanamycin resistance in wild type C24, rpn2a-1 and sor1 seedlings showed that sor1 retains a reasonably high level of resistance compared to wild type (Fig 2). Yet, the molecular characterization described in Figures 3 and 4 shows no evidence of NPTII transcript or protein being produced in this suppressor. Is this a problem of experimental sensitivity? A brief discussion of this observation should be included in the text. 