 Title: Sufficient. Abstract: Sufficient. Keywords: I think it would be better if the keywords are different from the words which already exist in the title. Introduction: The introduction should be started with the general information about the culture of Majalaya common carp Cyprinus carpio in Indonesia and the world, not directly with the problem statement. What are the advantages of this species, etc.? This species is known as common carp, but in this study the authors add the “Majalaya” common carp as a common name, so the authors have to introduce why the Cyprinus carpio is called Majalaya common carp; maybe this is a new strain or variety which resulted from cross-breeding between species X and species Y. Methods: Please clarify where the experimental fish come from - whether they come from the wild or from a hatchery. If from a hatchery, from which location? Etc. Before distribution into the hapas, did you acclimatise the experimental fish? If yes, for how long and what feed were they fed on during acclimatisation? I suggest deleting the producer name of the feed; just say “commercial diet”. You fed the fish three times a day, at what times exactly? How many times was the weight gain measured? For example 2 weeks interval for 12 weeks? Etc. Results: Please add information about the results of the ANOVA test, whether the treatment gave the significant effect or not to the measured parameters. The FCR data are lower than 1 in all treatments; it means that to get 1 kg of fish we need 0.7 kg of feed. Are you sure about that? I think it is impossible except you used the additional feed for example plankton, or the plankton were available without attention, where the biomass of these plankton was not included in the calculation. Please clarify. Discussion: Extend the discussion by comparing with other studies; maybe some studies are in agreement with your findings and some previous studies are contradictory, so that we have discussed both phenomena. Conclusion: You said that “The Majalaya common carp can be reared at stocking density up to 100 fish m -3 without negative effects on the growth” - be careful, can be reared until what size? 