The authors try to explain the interactions among structural analogues of acyl homoserine lactones (AHLs) using molecular modeling and support this by a statistical correlation of biological activity with molecular descriptors. The problem of the article is the type of linear model used for the statistical correlation. PLS is a type of correlation and this generates multiple linear correlations. These are known as latent variables and these are the variables that are not directly observed but are inferred (through a mathematical model) from other observed variables or (molecular descriptors). In this case, this type of model is viable when you have many samples (molecules) and many independent variables (molecular descriptors), and this is not the case. In my opinion for the article to be published the authors must include the following: You must indicate how many descriptors are used in the models. They use 34 molecules; they should remember that the number of degrees of freedom (g) for PLS models would be 34 - # LV- # descriptors-1. The authors do not report the number of latent variables (LV). If the g is minimal, the PLS model must be discarded. The authors must realize an analysis of the LV. This should be showing the weights or loading for each LV, and thus indicate which descriptors are contributing to each LV and be able to explain: (1) why the correlations should be independent based on the weights of the descriptors in the LVs and (2) why these descriptors do not work well In a single multiple linear equations and it is necessary to generate several linear combinations (LV) to find a good correlation. If the model has only one descriptor or two, the PLS process of adding LV to improve the correlation generates what is known as overfitting though that a leave-one-out cross-validation is being used. They should better perform a multiple regression for this case. Most likely, the authors have already tried multiple regression and found no correlation. If this is the case, there is a high probability that there is no true correlation between the data of the descriptors obtained and the biological activity. I invite you to improve the calculation of these descriptors. The authors must include an external validation in addition to the cross-validation 