Winawer and Witthoft describe a standard procedure to define human visual area hV4 within retinotopic mapping data obtained using fMRI. The definition of the early, retinotopically organized visual areas is a crucial first step in many studies of the cortical organization for vision. While areas V1-V3 are readily identified within functional MRI mapping data, area hV4 is often challenging due to reduced signal strength, imaging artifacts, and the peculiar organization of this region. The paper documents and supports a supplementary video, which is primarily a presentation of the figures from the paper. This video, narrated in the even, velvet tones of the first author, serves as a very nice introduction to ventral retinotopic maps generally, and to the specific procedure of identifying the borders of area hV4. The video is a sufficiently important resource that I suggest that the authors mention it in the abstract. I have no concerns regarding the method or the conclusions of the paper. Instead, I have two things that I would have ideally liked to have seen discussed: First, for the purposes of this report, I think it is appropriate for the authors to assume that the reader has in hand a retinotopic map that is displayed on an inflated cortical surface. They are therefore justified in providing minimal treatment of the stimulus, MRI acquisition parameters, and initial analysis approach. I would have liked, however, some observations regarding choices one might make in these methods that impact the identification of ventral visual areas. For example, they might observe that retinotopic mapping need not extend into the far periphery to define hV4, as the region has a fairly compressed representation of the periphery. Similarly, it would be helpful to mention that different choices can be made in the content of the mapping stimulus that could enhance the responses from hV4. Finally, they might comment upon choices made in EPI vs. spin-echo imaging that might reduce the influence of the transverse venous sinus upon the hV4 functional data, or MR-V imaging techniques that are useful in the identification of this venous structure. These points could also be addressed in a brief paragraph in the discussion. Second, as the anatomical landmarks are an important guide for the identification of hV4, the authors could comment upon their variability, both within the volumetric space and within a spherical registration space of cortical topology. To my understanding, it is this variability (coupled with variations in structure-function relationships and measurement limitations) that drives the need for individual definition of this region. Finally, there is a typo in the introduction: the word "calcarine" is unnecessarily capitalized. 