The printing press, the disruptive technology of 400 years ago, revolutionized how science was communicated. Journals, along with editors and reviewers—the peer review process--eventually replaced an author-directed process of letter writing. A new disruptive technology has placed us in the midst of another revolution in communication. The power of the internet has enabled communication with a rapidity, connectivity and interactiveness unlike anything possible with print media. It therefore behooves the research community to rethink how the science communication process might be structured. Tracz and Lawrence present to us their rethinking. They consider journals to be an outdated mechanism for publishing science and they enumerate the multiple problems familiar to researchers—the delay, the non-transparency, the tussles with reviewers and editors, the jockeying for high-impact journals. Tracz and Lawrence ask if journals are really necessary anymore. In so many other areas of 21 st century life, the internet has enabled the elimination of intermediaries between the end consumer and the producer. Are we at a similar stage for publications? Tracz and Lawrence propose an Open Science Platform that enables authors to publish essentially immediately after they consider their work ready to be shared with the scientific community. The work is then subjected to a post-publication review process which is transparent because the reviewers are not anonymous and their critiques as well as the authors responses are posted as an integral part of the publication process. A key issue is how the reviewers will be selected. Tracz and Lawrence propose that the authors be empowered to select and invite reviewers from a pool of qualified researchers. Of course, this shifts the question to how the reviewers become qualified and who makes this decision. The authors suggest that a virtual faculty such as that of F1000 could serve this function. Researchers would be incentivized to deliver thoughtful reviews not only because they would be identified but because their reviews would be citable documents in their own right. This would provide a benefit to reviewers which is lacking in the current system. A question that will spring to the lips of every researcher is how, in such a system, will we find the important publications. Tracz and Lawrence say that, in the long run, it should be irrelevant where authors publish their findings. But there are so many publications and so little time. Don’t journals with their editorial boards serve as key gatekeepers? Doesn’t the much-maligned impact factor nevertheless serve as a helpful guide? The Open Access movement has greatly facilitated the dissemination of research results but it has had the unintended consequence of also facilitating the emergence of predatory journals whose business model is to provide publication for pay with only the appearance, not the reality, of bona fide editorial quality control. This only compounds the problem. Indicators of the importance of publications will remain necessary. The Open Science Platform does not, per se, provide the indicators but it does provide a framework in which quantitative and qualitative metrics of importance such as citations, downloads, blogs and commentary can be incorporated into the platform. In principle, these article-based metrics can be made discoverable and substitute for the classic journal gatekeepers. Tracz and Lawrence have done the research community a service by proposing this bold, new Open Science Platform. Apprehensions aside, we have crossed into the 21 st century and there is no turning back.