This is a systematic review of randomised controlled trials comparing the consumption of breakfast with skipping breakfast and follows other similar SR on breakfast eating/skipping. There has been a long held debate regarding the potential effect of breakfast on energy intake, body weight and anthropometric measures, as the authors note this was driven by observational studies, but in recent years more RCT have emerged investigating effects. The methods are meretriciously reported and follow standard or gold standard procedures. Justification for some inclusion criteria should be included - to allow the reader to make a judgement whether the methods of this paper match its intended objectives. Since outcome is bodyweight/composition what is the purpose of including studies of 72hrs duration where likelihood of effect is minimal? I feel that the discussion is weak and could be strengthened considerably. Limitations of this manuscript are not limited to the statistical methods and assumptions for dealing with missing data. Limitations of the current review should be discussed and critically analysed. Many of the studies included in this and other SR are small, and are often conducted in participants with a mixed usual breakfast habit who are not overweight or attempting to limit their energy intake or reduce their body weight. Further discussion on the clinical/research implications of this SR (and similar ones recently published) is warranted. The absence of is a substantial clinical trial of breakfast eating/skipping within the context of weight loss attempt is notable, could this be related to issues surrounding potential conflicts of interest and industry involvement?, -would be worth discussion. Some mention of contextual setting is important- it would be difficult to determine if eating/skipping breakfast aids/impairs weight loss if the participants in are not attempting to limit daily energy intake or weight loss. However breakfast may affect appetite regulation, thus aiding/impairing adherence to energy restricted diets (or it may not)? Could usual skippers made to eat have different response than usual consumers made to skip? Could sub-group differences be affecting ability to detect effects of breakfast on body weight and composition? 