The paper describes idmapper, a simple yet very useful app for converting node identifiers from one data source to another. It is provided as part of the widely used network analysis and visualization software Cytoscape and the mapping functionality can be used by users in several different ways, including the GUI, Cytoscape commands, and from R or Python scripts vie the Cytoscape REST interface. It supports common data sources such as UniProt and Ensembl. Both the app and the manuscript are in good quality and there are a few minor aspects to be addressed. In the Implementation section, it is important to clarify which extent the idmapper app relies on the BridgeDB mappings/app and also say a few words about how these mappings are done in BridgeDB and what the versions of the used data sources are. Maybe it can be a subsection called Dependencies or Backend? In the use Cases section, it would be useful to provide the Cytoscape command call in addition to the R and python function calls. Figure 2 is not very informative as it is now. Maybe it would be better if it includes a screenshot of the “Example Value” code? In addition, the term “singular function” is used in mathematics and might be confusing for some readers. The app works nicely both through the Cytoscape GUI and the command/swagger interface. However, it would be great if the documentation can be improved a little bit so it is more consistent and informative. In particular: Could a list of all possible species and all possible data sources names be provided both in the manuscript and in the documentation of the command in Cytoscape/Swagger? It could be included as part of the description of the map column function in the Cytoscape automation section. The species are most likely the ones listed in the species parameter description but it is clearly stated anywhere. Is there a comma missing in the sentence: ”The combined common or latin name”? It seems that one can use all three of those: the common name, the latin name or the combined one (although there is a warning if anything but the combined one is used). Are the data sources exactly and only the ones in Table 1? There is an example with “Uniprot” (GUI, swagger documentation and example), one with “Uniprot-TrEMBL” (Case 2 in the paper) and in the table it is written “Uniprot TrEMBL”. Are all of those the same or not and if not what are the differences? For the table, it says “node” in the command documentation and “default node” in the swagger example. Both of them work, but it would be good to have a list of possible values as it is the case for the species parameter. Make clear (maybe in table 1) that Ensembl refers to Ensmbl Gene identifiers and not Proteins. Would it be possible that the parameters of the python function have the same names as the parameters in all other functions? Only recommended if it does not break already existing scripts. There were two minor issues while testing the app: When running the following command from within Cytoscape or the swagger documentation on the galFiltered network (or on a STRING network), a warning and an error message come up in the Task Manager. It seems to work nonetheless, so could you check what is going on there? idmapper map column columnName="name" mapFrom="Ensembl" mapTo="Entrez" species="Yeast" warning: value not contained in list of possible values possible items = [] and error: networkTable not found. The data source inferring works well for the identifiers, but in the case that the species is wrong (e.g. switching from a yeast to a human network), changing the species resets the Map from column to the first entry in the list. 