A major issue in computational biology is that of reproducibility. Here, the authors provide us with a concrete example of a reproducible simulation experiment using the Calzone et al. model (2007) of syncytial mitotic cycles in Drosophila embryos. To achieve their aim, they use established mark-up languages such as CellML, SBML and SED-ML, and package everything in a COMBINE archive. This COMBINE archive can then be used by anyone to reproduce the simulation experiment, as well as have access to the original paper, SBGN diagram, etc. This data note therefore shows us one possible, and viable, way to address the issue of reproducibility in computational biology and should, as such, be considered for indexing. Major comments: How do you envisage tackling the issue of provenance? Say that someone modifies your archive and makes it available to the community, how are we then supposed to know which one to use and what the differences are between the two versions? Considering that your COMBINE archive is on GitHub, I guess someone could always fork it, but maybe a better approach would be to take advantage of existing repositories in the community, such as BioModels.net and the Physiome Model Repository (PMR)? I am not sure about BioModels.net, but PMR inherently addresses the issue of provenance. In their supplementary material, Calzone et al. provide some files that can be used to reproduce their different figures. So, in effect, they allow for their results to be reproduced (using XPPAUT). It would therefore make sense to have a comparison of their ‘approach’ to reproducibility compared with yours. The two SED-ML files in your COMBINE archive refer to the SBML version of the Calzone model. Now, because you are also providing a CellML version of that model, it would be nice to also have a CellML-based version of your two SED-ML files. Minor comments: Abstract: You might want to replace “previously published simulation study” with “model of syncytial mitotic cycles in Drosophila embryos”. Keywords: Apparently, authors should supply up to eight keywords. Introduction: 1 st paragraph: COmputational Modeling in BIology NEtwork (i.e. “O” instead of “o” and “E” instead of “e”). 2 nd paragraph: “the Systems Biology…” and not “The Systems Biology…”? 2 nd paragraph: wouldn’t it be better to reference NuML rather than SBRML? (On http://co.mbine.org/Standards , SBRML is only mentioned as part of the NuML description.) 4 th paragraph: “Here, we describe…” (i.e. missing comma). Materials and methods: Retrieving an initial COMBINE archive: It would be nice to know exactly what kind of search was done using M2CAT (probably one using the term “calzone”?) and, then, which COMBINE archive was used as an initial COMBINE archive. Organising the COMBINE archive: “The initial archive was therefor[e] imported…” (therefore). It would be nice to know what those 4 initial files were (those in the model folder). Extending the COMBINE archive: The article: “…to state when and [from] where…” (from). The simulation description: What is the point of having that default simulation experiment? To use it as a starting point for reproducing Figure 1B of the Calzone paper is fine, but I don’t see the point of including that default simulation experiment in the COMBINE archive. It would be nice to know what simulation parameters and solver (incl. its parameters) were used to reproduce Figure 1B of the Calzone paper. (I imagine they are the same as the ones used by the authors with XPPAUT?) You might want to use sysbioapps.dyndns.org/SED-ML_Web_Tools as the URL for SED-ML Web Tools (rather than bqfbergmann.dyndns.org/SED-ML_Web_Tools )? It would be nice to have all the other figures of the Calzone paper also encoded in SED-ML, just so that your COMBINE archive is not only fully featured, but also complete. The visualisation of a model: Are you sure about the version of VANTED you used? Version 2.1.0 is somewhat old compared with the latest version available (version 2.6.3). Actually, looking at the contents of your COMBINE archive, I can see that Calzone2007.gml was generated using VANTED 2.6.2. (FWIW, SBGN-ED 1.6 has just been released.) The link for GML is broken ( http://www.fim.uni-passau.de/index.php?id=17297L=1) . Data description: “…in four directories, cmp. Section…”? Rather than referring to scripts.sems.uni-rostock.de/getshowcase.php (in this section and elsewhere in the manuscript), you might want to refer to your GitHub repository ( github.com/SemsProject/CombineArchiveShowCase ) and make use of GitHub’s release feature? It might be safer in the long term. Data validation: “…can be executed in COPASI, cmp. Figure 2(b).”? To click on the bqfbergmann.dyndns.org/SED-ML_Web_Tools/Home/SimulateUrl?url=http://scripts.sems.uni-rostock.de/getshowcase.php link takes me to a page that reads “No model uploaded. You need to upload a model first prior to attempting to simulate it!” “… shown in the web browser, cmp. Figure 2(c).”? You might want to provide a URL for COPASI and Tellurium? Data availability: You might want to reference your very latest commit (i.e. 6c34cc4) rather than commit a469197? Figure 1: I am not sure how useful this figure is. To me, it doesn’t bring anything to your data note. Not only that, but at its original size, one cannot read anything (I personally had to view it at 400% to be able to start reading the different labels). Figure 2: You might want to remove the “B” in panel (a). It’s confusing. You might want to mention that the range of the X and Y axes, as well as the colour of the different plots, cannot currently be specified in SED-ML, hence panels (b) and (c) don’t perfectly match panel (a)? 