The authors explain the method that underlies their submission to the 2016 DREAM Disease Module Identification challenge. The authors only discuss their results from subchallenge 2; they should either say this is what they are going to do up front or also mention their performance on subchallenge 1. The paper is not self-contained, it already assumes some familiarity with the setup of the challenge; since this is being published in a collection on F1000 related to the dream challenge, perhaps that is appropriate, however I would have preferred if the authors had spent more time describing the challenge: i.e. what does it mean in more detail to identify communities from the six biological networks jointly, rather than independently? While the authors release their code, which is commendable, there are not sufficient details in the text to completely understand their methods without returning to the code. For example, they talk about a resolution parameter γ but this parameter is defined nowhere in their paper: is this a parameter of the GenLouvain method to which they refer? The authors present a randomized algorithm which they run from 1 to 10 times, and return the partition with highest modularity, but figure 1 uses only 1 to 5 randomization runs. Furthermore, the authors do not explain how the parameter "5" or "10" is selected. There are other method details that involve parameters that are missing, for example in their set of simulated networks, it is impossible to discover how they set their parameters from just this writeup: They write "we simulated random multiplex networks with a fixed known community structure,... and various topological properties (i.e. dense/sparse/mixed, with/without missing data)" Is this the same collection of simulated networks that they generated in a previous paper (reference 5 that they cite?) if so, please say this explicitly. Even the writeup in reference 5 is somewhat sketchy, but it's better than what is here. The authors conclude that the power of including multiplex networks is dependent perhaps on the networks being generated from partial views of the same underlying community structure; when networks 5 and 6, which were very different were included, the performance of their method degraded, and this was found across the challenge in general. 