This paper addresses an important and neglected question of potential negative effects of paracetamol during pregnancy. It examines gene expression changes in placenta and foetal brain and also presents out a number of functional studies to establish whether placenta permeability or brain barriers in the fetus are affected by the treatment. The study reports significant changes in the expression of a number of genes, including genes associated with the immune response, and validates changes in one of these genes, Il1, at the protein level in the placenta. While in some respects this study is still preliminary, the information presented here is valuable for underpinning future studies. The authors clearly explain their choice of the end point (E19) selected, but not the reason for starting the chronic treatment at E15, rather than earlier, when important developmental events occur and teratogenic effects might be more likely and significant. Specific Comments: P6: It is not clear why only the t-test was used when comparing multiple groups, as ANOVA followed by a post-hoc test should have been used. On p7 the authors say “...65 up-regulated and 57 down-regulated....”, but Fig. 1 indicates 64 up-regulated genes, consistent wih the total of 121 up and down-regulated transcripts indicated in the right column. The authors indicate that expression of 737 genes is significantly affected by chronic treatment, but do not show the level of significance. Does this mean that p is 0.05 (but never 0.01 or smaller) for all transcripts? Table 1 and 3. It would be helpful to colour code genes that change in both acute and chronic treatment groups and use thicker vertical lines between groups for ease of visualization. Table 2 includes genes that are not in the top 50 shown in Table 1, and this should be clearly stated (at a first glance the Table seemed a bit redundant). As for Table 1, the level of significance should be indicated. The Table could be made it easier to read if the “up-regulated (acute/control)” genes were shown below the “up-regulated (chronic/control)”, rather than in adjacent columns, or were clearly separated using a thicker vertical line. In addition, it is confusing to have a column “chronic/control” under the “up-regulated (acute/control)” list. This seems to have been done to accommodate S100a rather than inserting it under each comparison. Please check carefully that the difference indicated in different Tables are the same (e.g. S100a8 has a FC 2.25 in Tab1 and FC 2.26 in Table 2). “Il1b” should be changed to “Il1”. A pie chart of the inflammatory genes to complement Table 2 and Fig. 3 would be useful. P17, left column, top and Fig. 4. There is clearly variability, but to give numbers of fetuses where Il1 levels could be detected over total numbers assayed for all groups would be more accurate and informative (e.g. acute 2/4, chronic low 7/16 and chronic high 10/19) than including these number only for the chronic high group, which appears to be wrongly given as 19/39, while the number of fetuses indicated for this group in Fig. 5 legend is 19. Figs 6 and 7 do not include error bars and no statistical analysis of these data seems to have been performed. It should be clearly indicated whether there was no statistical difference among groups at any time point studied. P20, left column, top. The statement: “AFP levels were higher in all treated dams compared to an un-treated control.” should be revised, as Fig. 8 shows an AFP increase only in chronically treated dams. It is a pity that the number of dams is too small to assess the significance of this observation and that no housekeeping protein was used to normalize AFP expression. If B is a densitometry of the gel in A, where according to the western blot labelling and the legend there is only 1 control for both dam and fetus, why are there 2 samples indicated in the controls in the charts? Given the low sample numbers and variability, particularly in fetal AFP levels, expressing the data as ratio is not appropriate. 