Many thanks for the opportunity to review this protocol paper that reports on the rationale and methodology of testing an adolescent knee pain prognostic tool. The protocol is generally well written, and the proposed project to develop a prognostic tool is much needed within the child and adolescent musculoskeletal community. However I do feel some points within the paper require greater clarity and have set out a number of recommendations that I feel would improve the content and presentation of this paper. Whilst the authors have aptly discussed the rationale for a prognostic tool within the introduction and briefly touch upon stratified care, I feel they need also mention what this means in terms of aligned treatments based on the risk (i.e. the pathway for stratified patients), a little bit more on this would benefit the introduction. In the exclusion criteria the authors mention participants will be excluded if they have an inability to understand the questionnaire, is this a language issue, or for those with learning difficulties, or both, I think the authors might wish to expand on this a little more to give examples. The authors state that both parents will be approached before the consultation, does that then require that both parents be present as this won’t often be the case (parent working, single parent etc), also more fundamental is the issue of “before the consultation”, if this is the case how do they know that the knee pain is not referred pain from the spine for example or that whilst the child/adolescent has knee pain that they may also discuss other issues within the consultation and the focus is on those other issues? I might add that the child may be looked after by someone who is not the parent (family member) and perhaps the term “caregiver” should also be used when the term parent is used? The authors describe complementary recruitment strategies to work alongside primary care recruitment, I think the use of wider recruitment strategy is good considering the low participation rate of children within primary care to MSK studies. However, whilst the authors have stipulated that children/adolescents will be reminded of the premise for participation, i.e. that participants have been seen by their GP for knee pain, how will this be confirmed? Furthermore, the authors have not explained the timeline for this, for example the recruitment within GP practices is at the time of consultation, however social media recruitment does not state a criteria of when they should have consulted. One of the key prognostic markers for adult MSK pain is time since onset, here you may have potentially two distinct groups, one who have consulted (not clear whether this will be the first consultation or a subsequent visit), and those via social media at presumably post consultation (but not stipulated as to what time period criteria is acceptable, is it a week, month, year etc), this presents issues of case mix, and at the very least the authors would have to collect information about timing of consultations (and timing of when patient first experienced pain) to factor into their analysis. I think the offer of cinema tickets is a good incentive, however would it not be better to offer a family ticket or at least two tickets as a child would most likely go on their own? For the data collection section, I wonder if a diagram might be helpful here as it is not fully clear, does the GP collect the data post consultation, will they (GPs) have time to do this, the authors mention previously that the child/adolescent will be approached to complete the tool before consultation, so does this mean they fill in the tool before consultation and then other information post consultation? The authors should be aware that pre-consultation may reveal different responses to a post-consultation (e.g. reductions in fear avoidance for parent/child due to reassurance from GP etc), this point also relates to point 4 above where alternative recruitment strategies may be used that could lead to different responses due to different timings? When discussing the outcomes, the authors describe that outcomes will be collected by a combination of self-report or parent report, firstly this doesn’t make sense because of the inclusion of “or” as that implies either, whereas it is described as a combination. Does this mean that there will be a choice in who fills in the questionnaire, should it not be self-report AND parent report, or is this related to age and access to online social media platforms where parents/caregivers would have to complete, I think this needs to be explained, and again the researchers should collect information on who fills in the questionnaire as there are differences between proxy and self-report. Participant timeline, is table 1 needed, I think it is clear that there will be an assessment at baseline and follow up at 3 months and 6 months for each participant, I don't think a diagram is needed for that? I feel a recruitment flow diagram would be a much better inclusion for this paper. The authors discuss the development of the items for the tool, I think a little more should be said about this, for example is this the information within the review (ref 31) or additional literature, also as this is a generation of the candidate items for a prognostic tool it would be good to give some detail (e.g. how many studies within the review, what sort of populations, were they all prospective studies etc). In addition the authors discuss the situation where multiple items or multiple scales were present for items, I feel this whole sentence could do with expansion, what is meant by multiple items and multiple scales, do you mean prognostic factors that have been measured suing multiple items/scales? Give some examples and how a multiple scale construct is then reduced to a single question, how was this done? Within the study piloting section, the authors mention the process of improving face, construct, content validity, stressing the importance of this should a GP make an inaccurate diagnosis, I have some concern about this statement as it suggests that the questions asked about pain via the tool are in some way involved in diagnosis, this is surely not the case, can the authors explain what they mean? In the stability of the tool section the authors state that children were referred to primary care because of their knee pain, who is it then who refers children to primary care, what is the process for this as this may be a factor to be considered (e.g. how long does it take for a person to be referred to primary care, who does the referral, how are decisions made on a referral etc), I thought it was that the child/parent/caregiver attends primary care? I am slightly confused about the test-retest parameters, from what is written it appears that the test was done pre and post consultation (i.e. within the same day, perhaps within the same hour), this timeline is too short, the point of test/retest is to ensure that the participants would not remember the responses to the questions asked, so for example the next week, to then ensure that the responses are consistent, I am not convinced this current test stacks up, and any differences would likely be via information received within the consultation (influencing different responses) rather than the actual difference coming from inconsistency in the measure (for example a GP offering reassuring information). I feel for the general readership it would be helpful to have the tool in English within the paper, and when I tracked down the English version I could see it has 12 questions, whereas the one in the current paper has 13 questions? The secondary outcome is the same as the primary outcome, with the only difference being time, could the authors clarify whether this is actually a secondary outcome or just a different time period for the same primary outcome measure? The authors state that the statistical analysis plan can be found elsewhere, this protocol paper should include the full statistical analysis plan rather than have a signpost to another protocol, can the authors include the full details in this paper (and if they have then they don’t need to reference another protocol). The authors discuss potential floor and ceiling effects, can the authors say a little more about this as presumably some risk items would only identify those at extremes (i.e. at risk) in any case? This is particularly true of items that can identify those at high risk, they may only account for a small proportion of the population with a number of items giving an additive high risk score? Will the authors examine both each individual item but also within a model (multivariable) to test the independent effects of each item as some many have overlapping qualities (will they also examine redundant items); also will the authors consider model fit (e.g. explained variance) within their analysis? Point 5 in the statistical plan is not explained well, could the authors say a little more about the identification of cut off scores and what criteria will be used to decide on this (i.e. are these independently generated from other sample or this one, what determines a poor outcome, if determined from this cohort it will make external validity more problematic), also if more will be given to sensitivity of the tool, how will this factor in the development of risk groups? Also it might be beneficial for the authors to compare risk groups in terms of the baseline characteristics and test across those to give further discriminant information, and in addition it might be worth considering construct validity by comparing to any existing measures, for example this measure could be compared to the generic PPST? The discussion might benefit more by describing the potential for the tool in terms of the assistance to clinicians, for example within the study will the research consider how clinicians feel about the tool and whether they feel it would be useful, also what is not clear at present is the potential pathways that are available as defined by risk, do the proposed risk groups have an aligned pathway already for example, if so what might that look like and if not how will these be developed? 