This article illustrates the methodology developed by Hothorn et al (2014 1 , 2017 2 ) and implemented in the CRAN package mlt (most likely transformation). The methods are applied to a common epidemiological problem: estimating the effect risk factors for overweight and obesity measured in terms of body mass index (BMI). BMI is typically coded in categories determined by the World Health Organization (WHO), but ad hoc categories may also be used, and other encodings of BMI are possible (e.g. BMI recorded to a given numerical precision, or calculated exactly from the original height and weight data). The proposed continuous outcome logistic regression model is capable of handling all of these different data formats for BMI. This is illustrated using data from the Swiss Health Survey 2012. The BMI data from this survey are encoded in various ways and the results show consistency of results (table 1 and 2). With the exact encoding of BMI, the conditional distribution of BMI given baseline covariates is estimated from a flexible parametric model using Bernstein polynomials (Figure 1, 2) and odds ratios that depend on the cutpoints (referred to as "non-proportional" odds ratios) are also estimated. I have only minor comments on the manuscript 1) Presentation of the non-proportional odds ratios is obviously more complex, but I wonder why a comparison across different encodings was not made for these odds ratios as it was for the risk factors assumed to have proportional odds ratios in Table 2. 2) In Table 2, the results for the WHO encoding are somewhat different from the other encodings, which tend to be more consistent with each other. Why? 3) In Table 2 , I would recommend different units for the continuous variables, as the per-unit odds ratios are attenuated towards 1 by the choice of scale, e.g. odds ratios for a 10-year age difference and a single unit of drink (12g in Switzerland, although 10g is more internationally comparable). 4) The final paragraph of the discussion seems to imply that the WHO cutpoints will changes in the future as prevalence of overweight and obesity increases. This seems unlikely to me as these cutpoints are normative. For example, despite doubts raised about the utility of the current cutpoints in Asian popoulations, WHO recommends to continue to use them for international comparisons. Having said that, it is possible that the categories will become more detailed in the future as epidemiologists use the three classes of obesity (30-35, 35-59, 39+) and/or break down the "normal" category into two (18.5-23, 23-25). 