This F1000Research article on Drugs acting on central nervous system (CNS) targets as leads for non-CNS targets " submitted by Kharkar is on a subject not uncommon to the CNS research community. The following comments need to be addressed: The author should state that several CNS agents, particularly multifunctional targets, are currently in clinical trial or have been approved for the treatment of non-CNS diseases despite the fact that they can cause inflammation and cancer. However, recently reported targeted CNS agents can bring an opportunity for repurposing some of the non-CNS targets as well. (Reference: http://www.ncats.nih.gov/research/reengineering/rescue-repurpose/rescue-repurpose.html ). Abstract: " Out-of-the-box approaches are currently needed to replenish the souring pipelines of pharmaceutical companies across the globe " this statement is arguable and needs to be revised. Page 2 paragraph 9: this may not be true and needs to be revised completely to something like - " Even the slightest modification to the physicochemical and physiological properties of the entity proposed as the non-CNS target of interest may alter its medicinal chemistry and tractability. One therefore needs to conduct every phase of non-clinical/IND work and may not reduce the development time due to the different PK and PD profile of the newly designed entity. However this is true only for repositioned drugs for new indications ". Figure 1: The introduction of just a -COOH functional group as a strategy may not abolish the CNS activity completely (-COOH is negatively charged at the physiological pH). There is no evidence to support Figure 1 because reports show that at least 34% of CNS drugs have a carboxylic acid group. The author should therefore emphasize that this proposal is just theoretical as yet. The author also missed some important references that I feel need to be included to support this article: a) Gosh et al ., (2012) Knowledge-Based, Central Nervous System (CNS) Lead Selection and Lead Optimization for CNS Drug Discovery . ACS Chem. Neurosci. 2012, 3, 5068 b) Palmer and Alavijeh (2012) Translational CNS medicines research . in Drug Discov Today .