In the revised version of the manuscript, the author responds to the comments made by me to the first version. In the revised version, the author also includes several equations of thermodynamics to validate the points of the manuscript. I found several points in the manuscript that need to be clarified or corrected. The author employed equilibrium thermodynamics as a theoretical tool in the paper. The system of interest in the paper is “blood”, which is identified as an open system in the paper. Those two facts (equilibrium thermodynamics as a tool and an open system to examine) are contradicting to each other because equilibrium thermodynamics is only applicable to closed systems (Roussel, 2012). (Minor point) Gibb’s to be changed to Gibbs in the sentence above Eq. 1. In Figure 1, ΔG sys = ΔH sys - TΔS sys is plotted. I agree with the author on the statement that ΔG is linearly related to ΔH and TΔS. However, that linearity cannot be displayed in a two dimensional plot because the equation contains three variables (two independent variables and one dependent variable). Therefore, the plot in Figure 1 is incorrect, even though the equation itself (Eq. 1) is correct. Even though the equation (Eq. 1) is correct, the meaning of Δ is not clearly defined in the paper. In thermodynamics, the symbol Δ means “change of” in a specified transformation of the system from one state to another state (Chang, 2000). It is not clear how Eq. 8 was derived. The author cited a paper for the equation. However, the cited paper does not have the equation. It will be beneficial for the readers if the author provides an explanation on Eq. 8. The author derived Eq. 9 by rearranging Eq. 8. Assuming Eq. 8 is correct, the rearrangement itself was not correctly done. The correct form of Eq. 9 would be “W = ΔH sys - TΔS sys + TΔS univ ”. The same is true for Eq. 10, which should be “TΔS sys + TΔS surr = ΔDH sys - TΔS sys + TΔS univ ”. Once again the validity of the equation depends on the validity of Eq. 8. It is not clear when the author states a thermodynamic quantity in the paper, whether it is a molar or molecular quantity. Eqs. 11 and 12 contain k B T, which means the thermodynamic quantities in the equation are a molecular quantity, while Eqs 14 and 15 contain RT, which means a molar quantity. In Eq 11, “k B ” and “K” are not defined. Based on the context, it is certain that “k B ” means the Boltzmann constant, but it still needs to be clearly defined. However, for “K”, it is not clear what it means. What is the physical basis that allows the equality between the work and temperature*entropy, work (W) = 2*TS m in Eq. 12? Thermodynamic work corresponding to the change in the quantity of chemical species, is expressed by the chemical potential * change in quantity of the species not temperature * entropy as stated in the manuscript (Eisenberg and Crothers, 1979). In the second column on page 8, the statement “The disappearance of the target ([Ag]≈ 0 M) will lead to the disappearance of the low energy position in the landscape.” is not correct. The statement is made based on Eq. 15, which is correctly represented. In the equation, ΔG = RTln ([AgAb]/[Ag]*[Ab])/K A , as [Ag] - 0, DG - infinity. Therefore, the low energy position is not disappearing but elevating to the infinity as [Ag] - 0. Even though the idea underlying the manuscript is highly creative, I have found several conceptual misunderstandings in the manuscript. I suggest the author might construct and develop the model by taking a different approach. In fact, the goal that the author aims to achieve would provide a great insight to molecular immunology. References 1. Roussel M.R.: A life scientist's guide to physical chemistry. Cambridge University Press. 2012. 2. Chang R.: Physical chemistry for the chemical and biological sciences. University Science Books. 2000. 3. Eisenberg D, Crothers D.: Physical chemistry with applications to the life sciences. (No. 541.3 E3) . 1979. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Thermodynamics, immunology, kinetics I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to state that I do not consider it to be of an acceptable scientific standard, for reasons outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Kang J. Reviewer Report For: Thermodynamic projection of the antibody interaction network: The fountain energy landscape of molecular interaction systems [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :1675 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.15227.r30857 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1675/v2#referee-response-30857 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 11 Sep 2017 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Kang J. Reviewer Report For: Thermodynamic projection of the antibody interaction network: The fountain energy landscape of molecular interaction systems [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 6 :1675 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13659.r26666 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-1675/v1#referee-response-26666 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 24 Oct 2017 Jonghoon Kang , Department of Biology, Valdosta State University, Valdosta, GA, USA Not Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.13659.r26666 Visualization of a scientific idea with diagrams is often time very useful. Examples of such visualization are phase diagrams in thermodynamics and reaction coordinate diagrams in kinetics. In the present paper, the author attempted to visualize complicated networks of antibody-antigen ... Continue reading READ ALL 