This manuscript addresses the effects of noncontact electro capacitive cancer therapy (ECCT) to down-regulate CCL2 and IL18 expressions in a breast cancer mouse model in which the end targets is inhibiting breast cancer cell proliferation. It is an interesting topic in efforts to eliminate cancer cells by elaboration between the anti-proliferative effect and activity of inflammatory cells following ECCT administration to breast cancer, due to the conventional therapy to reduce recurrence and breast cancer mortality remains unclear . On the other hand, the proinflammatory cells releasing proinflammatory cytokines such as IL18, TNF-a, IL23, and chemokine CCL2 also play an essential role in the development of breast tumors. In this paper, there are a number of issues regarding the methods and analysis that need to be clarified and addressed. Below are more specific comments by section : Introduction: Minor corrections: add a punctuation mark "comma" in this sentence: Stromal components, such as endothelial cells, myeloid derivate suppressor cells, and macrophages” add “the” in this sentences: Furthermore, the evaluation of IL-23 suggested that this cytokine has… “ Add “-“ in this sentences: and growth by up-regulating matrix metalloproteinase….” Add “a” in this sentences MCSs into a wound site and allow macrophages to be at a short distance to the wound…” “Macrophages and tumor cells act as inflammatory cells that can be affected by chemical signals.” Tumor cells is not inflammatory cells. So far, electric fields-based therapies need to be described in order to understand the modulation. The mechanism need to be investigated. “TNF-α significantly induces breast cancer metastasis via TNFα-activated mesenchyme stem cells (MSCs) in lung.” However, under TNF-α stimulation at invitro model, the MSCs can also release IL-10 as anti-inflammatory cytokine that may be a beneficial for cancer growth inhibition. Please read this article: Putra A, Ridwan FB, Putridewi AI, et al. The Role of TNF-α induced MSCs on Suppressive Inflammation by Increasing TGF-β and IL-10. Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2018;6(10):1779-1783. Published 2018 Oct 4. doi:10.3889/oamjms.2018.404[ref-1]. “Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) may help tumor cell growth by releasing several pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNFα and IL23, which are expressed by the classically activated M1 macrophage.” Whereas, TAM is not classically activated M1 macrophage but the TAM is definitely an activated M2 macrophage. Read this article: Lee C, Jeong H, Bae Y, et al. Targeting of M2-like tumor-associated macrophages with a melittin-based pro-apoptotic peptide. J Immunother Cancer. 2019;7(1):147. Published 2019 Jun 7. doi:10.1186/s40425-019-0610-4[ref-2]. A recent study demonstrated that TTFields therapy activates macrophage specific immune responses through the activation of several cytokines, such as NF-kB (nuclear factor-kB), TNF-α, and IL1-β….. NF-kB is not cytokine but the NF-Kb is the rapid-acting primary transcription factor for controlling cytokine production. Method: Minor corrections: Add “this” in the sentence: The rat number for this experimental design was calculated for the minimal biological replication of rats…. “ Add “a” in the sentence: Tumor nodule diameters were measured every 2 days using a digital caliper ….” The sample paraffin blocks were sectioned with a microtome...” The stained samples were subsequently dehydrated using an upgraded level of...” Add “-“ in the sentence: Solid tumor-bearing rats were exposed…. Add “comma” in the sentence: using an upgraded level of alcohol, cleared in xylene, and lastly” Remove “s” in the sentence: The INT and IT tumor tissues samples were then processed…” Add “a” and “-“ in the sentence: In brief, the samples were deparaffinized using xylene and then rehydrated with a down-graded concentration of alcohol….” Please clarify the experimental group. The experimental design of this study used four rat groups with six biological replicates (n=6), however, the number of tissue sample required for replication is three tissues samples (n=3)...” Results The authors reported that ECCT-exposed rat breast tumor (IT) can induce the fluid bathing in tumors that associated with tumors size, in which the author's hypothesis is to inhibit breast tumor cell proliferation (anti-proliferation). Although, the results from the sham rat breast tumor group (INT) exhibited denser tissues and slower growth, however, the tumor volume of IT (treatment group) still exhibited larger than the sham (INT group), suggesting the result is on the contrary to the anti-proliferation. (Figure 1). Please clarify. The authors declared that the percentage of cells expressing CD68 protein in treatment groups (IT) were significantly higher than in the non-treatment groups (INT group) indicated that the macrophage polarized into type-2, known as Tumor associated macrophage (TAM) that associated with the proliferation of cancer cell. Please clarify. On the other hand, in this study there was a decrease of CCL2 as the main chemokine of monocyte and macrophages, however the macrophage type-2 (CD 68 expression) was increased, Please clarify. 