In sum, this paper is highlighting the importance and need for "data stewardship", viz., well-considered data management plans for every project that produces/generates data. Data stewardship plans should be developed early in a project cycle--indeed, along with the development of the science/research goals of the project itself. The authors caution that this problem becomes even more urgent in the era of "big data". They recommend use of an existing approach, viz., the Open Archival Information System (OAIS). The issues mentioned and the approaches suggested are very reasonable, and very much in step with similar concerns and approaches in several other domains, which are all facing the data deluge. In fact, I have heard so much discussion and read so many articles on this topic--supporting the approaches described in this paper as well--that I am now concerned that, as a community, we are probably not taking the right approach to this problem. First, the only way that the community may pay attention and spend resources on this problem is if they see value. These type of articles should probably begin with the value of doing this work, rather than the cost. Almost all articles on this topic talk in detail about the costs, and simply presume that the value exists. Value could be demonstrated by showing real science examples that benefited from archival data; examples of studies that went into archival data and found something new and interesting. Or, conversely, studies that duplicated effort, or failed in other ways, for not digging into archival data. Second, curation is not a static process. The costs of curation, done properly, may actually be way more than what these papers suggest. Since science is not static, the relevance or "meaning" of a particular dataset is also not static. Data may become less or more valuable as the field progresses. All of that speaks to what I would call "continuous curation" of scientific data, and not just one-time curation at the time of creation. Finally, what to do when everyone is extolling the need and virtue of curation but no one is spending nearly enough resources to do the job right. One would think that this is the classic use case for AI and "smart" techniques. Why not let the computer do the job that no human is willing or able to do for the amount of money we are willing to spend. Rather than AI, this may be the classic use case for IA--intelligence augmentation, with a human in the loop. 