In Mulder’s article “Pathogenic helminths in the past: Much ado about nothing”, Chelsea Wald and Piers D. Mitchell state that sanitation did not improve people’s health significantly, despite its sophisticated technique. In coprolites and remains of toilets throughout the Roman Empire the presence of helminth’s eggs of Ascaris and Trichuris was widespread, testifying to the unhealthiness of the environment. Mulder states that helminths arrive in the faeces deposit (dung heap or sewer system) through the oral-faecal route; people are infected by eating infected food and drinking infected water, so that there is no immediate connection between sanitation and ‘eating’ helminth’s eggs. Mitchell correctly observes that a concentration of faeces is a breeding-place for parasites and eggs. Faeces was used as a fertilizer in the countryside, so that helminth’s eggs were spread. Comparing ancient sanitation with modern sanitation is not without risk. Mulder’s statement ‘The large-scale introduction by Romans of fountains into or near public buildings, together with closed aqueducts, can be seen as the very first Water Safety Plan’ (second paragraph, ‘As a matter … Sea’) is disputable. The aqueducts were closed, indeed, but this construction served to prevent pollution (e.g. by pieces of wood) or even poisoning 1 . Moreover, ancient ‘safe water’ differs from modern ‘safe water’ 2 . Nowadays, ‘safe water’ is water without pollution of by parasites, chemicals, etc. In Antiquity, ‘safe water’ was clear, without smell or taste, like rain and spring water. On the other hand, the aim of the authorities was the same: to improve health and sanitation as much as possible by supplying ‘safe water’, but the awareness of the Romans was restricted. If necessary, surface water was filtered 3 , but they were unable to remove invisible but noxious elements like helminths’ eggs. In the third paragraph (‘Many pathogens … catastrophs’) Mulder refers to a tripartite division of waters (‘Already… irrigation’), which would be mentioned by Frontinus. I am not aware of any mention of a tripartite division of good, intermediate and bad water in Frontinus; a reference would be welcome. In ch. 11 of De aquis , Frontinus describes how the Aqua Alsietina, supplying water of less quality, was constructed for the Naumachia, a pond for reenacting sea-battles; this aqueduct was not connected with the other aqueducts, being situated on the right bank of the Tiber river. This water was not used, in the first instance, for consumption; surplus of the Naumachia was used for the irrigation of private gardens 4 . In the chapters 88-93, Frontinus criticizes the indiscriminate use of water from aqueducts for any purpose (for instance, the use of clear drinking water for fulleries), and pleads for separating all aqueducts; some aqueducts (like Marcia) containing excellent water have to supply drinking water, other ones (like Anio Vetus) for other purposes 5 . A small correction in this paragraph: for ‘terms’ read ‘thermae’ – which, however, is already covered by ‘baths’. I advise to delete this word. Conclusion: Mulder discusses the influence of sanitation on hygiene and health in Antiquity. He disagrees with Mitchell, who states that the improvement of sanitation did not improve human health very much. Bodily hygiene increased by the use of bathhouses, but the number of helminths did not diminish due to the growing use of faeces as fertilizer. Mulder rightly argues that one should not too readily conclude that the development of sanitation did not contribute to the health of the population significantly; more research comparing areas both within and outside the Roman Empire is certainly required. Please add references of Frontinus. 