The authors were interested in identifying additional subunits of the trypanosome CAF1-NOT complex, an important macromolecular assembly involved in the first step (deadenylation) of mRNA degradation. Towards this aim, they carried out a genome-wide Y2H screen with a shotgun library using four known subunits of the complex as baits. For one of these bait proteins (CAF40), interactions were also determined by Co-IPs. While the question is of great interest, my main problem is that the experiments do not actually identify any new members of the CAF-NOT complex with confidence, contrary to what is suggested by the title. The problem with the Y2H screen is a lack of adequate controls. With one exception, none of the previously-known interacting proteins were identified (lack of positive controls). The negative control, Y2H with CBP1, yielded over eight hundred interaction partners, but not the one that was previously known; the authors state themselves that this clearly lacks specificity. None of the identified proteins from the Y2H screen were verified, for example by reciprocal IP, or by localisation studies (members of the CAF1-NOT complex are expected in P-bodies; thus, a P-body localisation seen in TrypTag(!), could indicate, although not prove, a correct hit). I was also confused with the presentation of the data on several occasions. For example, on page 3 it says ‘we obtained 6, 158, 15 and 3 interaction partners with NOT2, NOT10, NOT11 and CAF40 …’, but I could not find a list of these proteins anywhere. The numbers in the abstract and in Table 1 are different. I understand that these were the most specific interaction partners, but I was confused a mitochondrial protein was among those. Overall, I felt that the presentation of the data in the tables was a little ‘raw’. In their conclusion, the authors state that ‘The Y2H data by themselves provided no clues confirming functional partners of the Not complex’. The affinity purification of Caf40 RNAse identified several interesting proteins, although the one CAF40 interaction partner identified in the Y2H was not among these. However, these results were weakened by the authors themselves as the paragraph ends with ‘This was, however, only a single experiment, so the results will not be discussed further’. As with the Y2H data, I also felt that the data presentation was rather raw. I’m sorry not to be more positive with this manuscript. I do realise that the Y2H was a lot of work, but it is nonetheless important to increase confidence in the results using the controls/replicates suggested above. An additional approach such as BioID would also be a good control, although I realise that this is beyond the scope of this manuscript. 