 This study has two aims: first developing and validating a test to measure informational masking and second to conduct a randomised clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of an auditory training in elderly people who have speech in noise difficulty. The introduction is well-written, and the aims are clearly stated however the methodology needs to be revised. The detailed comments are as below: Introduction First Paragraph ‘Understanding speech in noisy environments is a major challenge of the auditory system, which occurs mostly due to aging.’ Please revise this sentence. There are many reasons for difficulty understanding speech in background noise, aging is one of them, it doesn’t occur mostly due to aging. Please first define/explain what energetic and informational masking are (please re-organise your paragraphs, the definition should come first) Second paragraph ‘…, another type of masking occurs both.’ Please revise this sentence, it doesn’t make sense. Fourth paragraph ‘Based on the results of different studies, it has become clear that the most important sign of informational masking release is spatial separation of target and competing signals’. Here you’ve mentioned several studies but only used one reference, either revise the sentence or add more references. Fifth paragraph ‘On the other hand, it has been shown that the elderly population need a higher signal to noise ratio for speech recognition in the presence of noise, compared to young people.’ Please add a reference. ‘in elderly people, without considering the hearing impairment, the ability to use spatial and non-spatial signs for informational masking release diminishes due to the reduction of cognitive processing abilities, temporal processing, defects in the connection between hemispheres, and diminished ability to separate simultaneous sounds.’ By ‘hearing impairment’ do you mean apparent hearing loss on the PTA? Hearing impairment includes temporal (and auditory) processing deficits as well as peripheral hearing impairment. Last paragraph ‘The present study had two parts. The first part of this research was developing a test for measuring and evaluating the informational masking.’ The sentences are in the past, have you done the study already or you are going to conduct these? In the study design section, you mention ‘the study will be conducted...’ Please be consistent. Although you have clarified this in your methodology, your aim will be clearer if you specify here why you are developing and validating a test to measure informational masking. Study design ‘Inclusion criteria (for all participants in the study): auditory thresholds ≤25dB within the 250–2000Hz frequency range and …’ My main concern is the definition of ‘normal hearing’. Which protocol have you used to define ‘normal hearing’? if you are including patients with mild high frequency hearing loss you cannot say patient’s hearing is normal. Even if all frequencies (250-8000 Hz) are better than 20 or 25 dBHL (BSA or ASHA definition) if the OAEs are not robust or wave I of the ABR is absent you cannot assume patient’s hearing is normal. Pure tone audiogram is very limited when testing the auditory pathway. In addition, you need to differentiate between peripheral and central hearing. If you would like to use the term normal hearing, it’s better to say ‘peripheral hearing’ as you have not tested the central auditory pathway so you cannot assume their hearing is ‘normal’. The prevalence of hearing impairment (peripheral and central) in elderly people is quite high. Also it is perfectly possible that an elderly patient has a spatial processing disorder in the presence of 'normal pure tone audiogram'. SSQ is not a quality of life questionnaire, please use another term and revise this paragraph. Please justify why you chose 4 speakers. Sample size Please specify what Z in the sample size formula is and include means and standard deviations from the Delphi’s study. The sample size for study 2 is not adequately justified. Sixteen participants seems a very low number, particularly if we assume 20% drop out. How many participants are you going to approach? Other comments Sufficient time must be considered for auditory training, one month seems a very short time to assume auditory training is beneficial or not (in Humes et al’s methodology the training was performed twice a day for 7.5 weeks but you are proposing 2 trainings in 4 weeks) , ideally you should repeat your outcome measures after 3 and 6 months, and even better if you could repeat 1 month after the training is ended to explore the long term potentiation. Feedback and monitoring are crucial in auditory training, you have mentioned about the feedback but please explain in detail how this will be done. There was no mention of progression in difficulty of the training (one of the main principles of auditory training), are you going to consider this in your training? Since you have not done any pilot or feasibility study, it would be useful if you could do a small qualitative study; for example, running a focus group and asking your participants what they think of the intervention and how likely they will continue performing the auditory training in the future. One of the major issues with the auditory training (or any other training) is boredom and generally keeping the patient motivated throughout. In addition, in practice, performing the training in the clinic is time consuming and costly. Would patients do these training at home? Adhering to the training while performing at home is another issue. The consent form needs to be written in lay language and please avoid jargon and acronyms. 