Bou et al. have built a toxicology data-sharing infrastructure for assessing modified risk tobacco products (MRTPs). They have described used best practice guidelines On the INTERVALS website, the authors have exhaustively described the methods of each experiment under the “studies” section. At the end of the page is a results section where a huge amount of data is presented under many tabs which need to be selected in order to see the data. While the description of the methods is immensely important, the focus should surely be around the individual chemical being analysed or at least the results of the study. For example, there is no easy way to observe all the results for THS2.2. I would suggest either removing the use of tabs or, better yet, moving all results to their own section on the website (without the use of tabs) under the name of the MRTP so that all the results are easy to browse with links back to the methods used. This would enable the user to easily examine their MRTP of interest. Again on the “data” section, where the data is available to download, the authors have focused filtering by methods rather than filtering by MRTP. If someone wants to assess the potential of THS2.2, they would want to view all the results for this chemical. Secondly, if possible, a feature enabling the user to download multiple datasets (instead of clicking on 37 links for THS2.2) would be incredibly useful. The authors have highlighted the importance of the searchability of the data yet they have constrained their own search engine by the terms listed on the “data” section. Currently, you cannot search for any information contained within the metadata. The authors should think about including this in the future. The use of “pMRTP” is very confusing and badly named. Especially given that the website glossary definition of it is “See MRTP definition” which mentions nothing of pMRTP. I understand that the original publication on “pMRTP” uses this name but it’s very unclear if this is a chemical/method of heating. If named such, is it an accepted MRTP? As far as I am aware, the FDA has not approved any MRTPs. On the website, the “pMRTP - 7-month systems toxicology inhalation / cessation study in C57BL6 mice” study also fails to mention what it is. A clearer definition is needed on all pages of the website and for the first mention in the paper. The authors have turned their ISA-TAB files to excel format. This is prone to excel-specific errors, for example, turning number entries into dates. Why not use the actual ISA-TAB format? Page 10: “Therefore, herein, we propose a new ISA-Tab scheme that follows the data-production workflow and combines data production and documentation into a single step by the researcher, who is the expert on the dataset and experimental parameters.” The authors have proposed this solution to the fact that creating ISA-TAB files is “complex, time-consuming, and error-prone”. This doesn’t appear to solve the issue fully. How do the authors expect to convince researchers to fill out ISA-TAB files as the experiment is ongoing? ISA-TAB files are complex and each researcher needs training on how to complete these correctly. While the authors have described how to complete ISA-TAB files, it is not easy to perform. They have also suggested ontologies to use but not the standardised terms to use within these ontologies. Each researcher might use different terms. Are the authors going to check over all the ISA-TAB files themselves? When the authors mention “extensions to the ISA-TAB templates”, are they going to provide a web template which creates the ISA-TAB files for the user? Additionally, the suggested ontologies should also be listed on the website. Page 14: “The first step in this direction is the development of a data input and management application consisting of several validated web forms and lists with filtering/searching features connected to the uploaded datasets”. Please describe how these were validated. Where are the web forms located on the website? Are these for premade ISA-TAB files or for creating the ISA-TAB files? Please explain more. Who can add data to the website? There is no option for new members to join, or upload data, will this change in the future? There are no publication references on the “data” section of the website. If possible, it would be better to include this. There are no obvious explanations of the headers within the downloadable data yet a number of abbreviations are used. Please think about changing this as soon as possible. 