Santoso et al. explore the relationship between a high fat diet, aerobic exercise and telomere length. In this small-scale animal research study, the authors make the unexpected observation that after 8 weeks of high fat diet, telomeres are elongated in circulating blood cells (leukocytes). They observed in aerobically trained animals that the apparent telomere elongation was significantly attenuated compared to a sedentary control. These interesting findings observations call into question the strict dogmatic view that telomere shortening is the rule in pathology. Human epidemiological studies have reported similar discrepancies, where telomere shortening is not always observed in pathological scenarios but rather telomere elongation can also be apparent in disease situations. While these observations are provocative, I have several concerns with the sample size, the model organism, the method used to measure telomere length, and the interpretation of the data. This study is very positive in terms that it points out the need to perform longitudinal analysis of telomere biology in both human and model organism studies. Repeat sampling will be critical to moving the field of telomere biology and environmental/lifestyle impacts forward. For instance, what happens to telomere biology or cell biology after 12 weeks on a high fat diet following the apparent rapid and massive telomere elongation event at 8 weeks? The negatives of this study are the model organism of choice, the measurement biochemistry, the data analysis, and the lack of mechanistic insights provided by the authors. 1. Sample size, model organism, and statistical treatment of the data. While the effect observed in this study is large, the sample size is small. Further the authors utilize a repeated-measures design and do not analyze the data as such. Each rat’s telomere length was measured three times. Thus, change in telomere length per individual rat should be reported between each time point and analyzed via a repeated measures analysis. Further, with the assay of choice, 6 animals would be borderline powered enough to detect a meaningful change. What were the authors expectations in terms of a priori predictions on the magnitude of change in telomere length? Are the rats inbred or outbred? This needs to be reported in the document. Translatability of findings to humans. Rats use a different life history/ life course strategy to promote survival of the species. These animals grow quickly, have a small body size, do not suppress telomerase, reproduce young, and are cancer susceptible while humans grow slowly, have a large body size, suppress telomerase, reproduce late in life, and are cancer resistant. Thus, could this extreme lengthening be due to evolutionary differences between humans and the chosen model organism? That is, humans might not have a similar response compared to rodents. 2. Assay choice. The Cawthon method or T/S ratio to determine relative telomere length is a valid assay when performed by certain labs, but it can have issues. A critical validation step in the assay that I did not see in the online data is the reference DNA sample. Did the authors have a reference sample of known telomere length that was run on each plate to ensure their assay was performing as expected? This should have been done on each plate and the inter and intra plate coefficient of variation should be reported for the assay in general. This is critical to be sure the findings are not erroneous. The authors could purchase a cell line with a known telomere length, isolate DNA and repeat the T/S ratio on all samples (both known and unknowns/experimental) to ensure the measurement is correct. I would have expected higher T values across the board. Rats have 25-40 kb telomeres and a single copy of 36B4. Thus, the ratio of telomere copy to 36B4 copy should have been more like 2 or 3, not 1. 3. Interpretation concerns. What is known about rapid telomere elongation to my knowledge is as follows: E. Blackburn’s group showed that yeast mutants for telomerase RNA result in ultra-elongated telomeres rapidly and impair cellular survival. Further, some mutants acted as a ‘time-bomb’ and killed cells later in life (slow on set of telomere elongation 1 ). In human cancer cells telomere elongation induces cell differentiation and less aggressive tumors 2 . Another line of evidence from the L. Harrington lab is that telomere elongation reduced cell survival after radiation treatment 3 . From epidemiological evidence, telomere trajectory in CVD can be maintained, shorten or elongated in follow up 4 . Whether or not these changes correlate to health outcomes or are correlated with secondary CVD events is unknown. Thus, it appears that ultra-long telomere lengths (greater than 15 kb in human) could be equally as ‘bad’ as short telomeres for cell fate decisions. The major cellular and molecular issues of long telomeres are stalled replication forks at telomeres and double strand breaks in the telomeres that a refractory to repair. Do the authors suspect that the immune cells with ultra-long telomeres will die soon after the 8-week period? Is there a major shift in immune cell distribution after 8 weeks on a high fat diet that would indicate a lasting impact of this observation? Are the cells with long telomeres dying? The concept that telomere length must be maintained at the correct telomere length and that telomere structure and sensing by the cell may be more important that absolute length is an emerging concept in the field. The results from the current study lend to the hypothesis that absolute length is not critical but rather tight regulation and sensing of telomere length is critical to cellular health and in turn gene expression regulation and cellular physiology. This idea needs and deserves more investigation as much of our evidence to date comes from cells grown in culture which may be very different than cells in vivo when it comes to telomere biology. 4. Short duration and extreme impact. My hypothesis would have been no or very subtle changes in telomere length for this duration of intervention. What are the speculative mechanisms the authors see occurring? Are the leukocytes entering a stress mode whereby they activate telomerase and elongate telomeres dramatically to try to survive? Could this be the beginning of alternative lengthening of telomeres in these cells? Can the author speculate a bit about what they think might be happening in terms of mechanisms? Issue of timing – in terms of physiology – after 8 weeks on a high fat diet what else is changed in the immune system of these animals? Can the authors provide about how long 8 weeks in a rats’ life would be equivalent to how long on a high fat ‘western’ diet for humans would be? What other physiological changes occur? Fatty liver? Higher cholesterol? Higher fasting blood glucose? Hormone levels (epi, nor-epi, insulin, IGF-1, glucagon, cortisol, growth hormone, TNF alpha, IL-6, IL-10, etc.). All of these measures could identify correlates to the change in telomere length. 