The manuscript by Guauque-Olarte and colleagues is an overview of the CHEK2 variants reported in Latin American population, searched from literature or cBioPortal, ICGC and ExAC databases. Overall the concept of the manuscript is interesting; however the data is poorly presented and the scientific writing is not up to the mark. The manuscript title also needs modification, like “An overview of CHEK2 variants associated with cancer in Latin American population”. I have following reservations about the manuscript: For missense variants or variants in 5’UTRs it is suggested to write “DNA sequence variants” instead of “mutations” throughout the manuscript, so that these can be differentiated from clear pathogenic mutations i.e. frameshift, nonsense or splice site mutations. As the study objective was to compile the CHEK2 mutations reported in Latin Americans, Table 1 describes the CHEK2 variants identified in other populations or even the ethnicity is unknown for majority of the variants presented in this table. The table is also not presented properly. It is suggested to omit this table or present it as a “Dataset”, and just mention in the text that 78 deleterious or potentially deleterious mutations were reported in TCGA studies. The authors did not state about the origin (somatic or germline) of CHEK2 variants presented in all the tables. It would be of interest if a column is added in all tables for this information. Results section: Data presented in Figure 1 and Figure 2 is not concordant as mentioned in the text. Please resolve this issue. Results section: “…..after the filtering process, 38 of which were classified as with high impact” It is not clear which those 38 nucleotide variants are in Table 1? Please add a column for this information. Results section: Paragraph “Two patients with three mutations …….this patient carry a frameshift and a nonsense mutation” is confusing. Is the patient with DLBC a compound heterozygous for a frameshift and nonsense CHEK2 mutation, simultaneously? Table 2: Column Genomic DNA change: The nucleotide change can’t be seen in this column, there is just the nucleotide position. Please modify this column. Results section: GWAS catalog. Authors should be cautious whether the SNPs rs132390-C and rs2239815-T are present in CHEK2 gene or not? Table 2: Two variants in 5’UTR are not clear, population is also not mentioned. Table 2: “Effect” column; please correct that stop gain mutations are also called nonsense mutations. Table 2: The data in the table is not presented properly. c.1590+2TG and c.573+2TG are the nucleotide changes and these are presented in column AA change. The authors should follow HGVS nomenclature, both for nucleotide change and the AA change. There should be a column for pathogenicity of missense mutations (high or medium impact) in this table. Table 3: Column Consequences: I think there is no need to mention the amino acid change referring all CHEK2 transcripts. Just follow the GenBank reference sequence for transcript variant 1 for reporting nucleotide or AA change and follow the HGVS nomenclature. Discussion, paragraph 1: “….eight stop gain mutations, one frameshift mutation…” Please correct, there are four stop gain mutations (also called nonsense mutations) and five frameshift mutations. 