This paper analyzes of sustainability models for knowledgebases using Uniprot as an example. It makes some important points and is definitely worthy of indexing. However, there are aspects of the presentation that could be improved. Here are some suggestions. Introduction A simple statement about the differences between repositories and knowledgebases is required. Sustainability is a problem for all data resources not just knowledgebases. It would be better to make generalizations in the introduction and wait until section 3 to discuss UniProt in particular. After the statement about the sustainability framework there should be some discussion of other similar studies. These should include the Michigan study, the HFSP study, and the commentaries by Lorsch et al. among others. Then I suggest that there be a short statement about what this paper will cover. The comments in last paragraph of this section belongs in the appropriate parts of section 2. In particular, the difficulty of sustaining resources from research funding sources is a key issue facing many new and existing resources. Overview This section is very clear. I think that some comments from the last paragraph of the introduction could be incorporated in the appropriate model descriptions. All of the data resources need references. Funding situation of Uniprot The history of UniProt funding exemplifies the problems in the current sustainability models. Table 1 is very useful and compares well with the Michigan study. Although that study focused on domain repositories in all of science, the conclusions are similar. I do not understand the references given in the Infrastructure model section. Can any estimate be made of about further gains in automating information extraction that can be anticipated from improvements in machine learning tools and techniques? In other words, is there scope for significant future reduction in manual biocuration. In the concluding section, it would be useful to elaborate further on the how the availability of subsidized cyber infrastructure and services alone would impact the long term UniProt sustainability. 