 Title: "Microbiota profiling with long amplicons using Nanopore sequencing: full-length 16S rRNA gene and whole rrn operon". Summary of the key results: The study demonstrates the use of nanopore sequencing for characterising low biomass samples with high levels of host DNA using a primer-based approach targeting the entire 16S rRNA gene or the 16S rRNA gene and the 23S rRNA gene. Furthermore, it evaluates the ability of these methods in the context of known references using mock communities and a pure culture using both the WIMP software and a custom mapping-based approach. The study demonstrates that nanopore sequencing can give accurate classifications even at the current level of error rate if the reference database contains the right sequences. The study also shows how sequencing the longer fragment spanning both the 16S rRNA and 23S rRNA genes improves the taxonomic classification when the database contains a matching sequence. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? The study mentions that the classification methods rely heavily on reference databases so it would be relevant to include citations for papers with methods for producing new reference sequences for both 16S rRNA and the longer fragment in the discussion (metagenomics, artificial long reads, primer free methods). Methods for improving read accuracy are also mentioned as important but the only methods mentioned are future upgrades from the company, relevant existing literature is not included (INC-seq, UMIs etc.). The study concludes that sequencing the entire “rrn operon” would be the best choice but it would be relevant to compare the size of current databases for the 16S rRNA gene versus the rrn operon. The presence of conserved sites for designing better primers is also extremely important but not discussed. Furthermore, there is evidence that quite a few organisms have unlinked rRNA genes, which will thus be missed by a full operon approach. Citations are also needed for bioinformatics tools for both processing and visualisation of the data. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? The study uses mapping to a reference database to point out that the sequences can get genus- and species-level classification. However, the method will always report a genus and a species even in the absence of the correct sequence in the reference database as indicated from the sequencing of the S. pseudintermedius pure culture with the “rrn” method. It will be important to simulate the impact on the results when there is no closely related sequences in the database. This could be done by removing all reference sequences within the Gammaproteobacteria and mapping the HM-783D to the modified database and monitor where the reads end up. It would also be helpful if there was a way to distinguish between reads that have the “correct” match and reads that just happen to map because the 16S rRNA gene is extremely conserved. Something similar would be relevant for the EPI2ME workflow but as the authors cannot control the reference database, it is probably not feasible. One of the advantages of the mock communities should be information about the copy numbers for the rRNA genes but there is no information on this included in the study and how it affects the results. Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? The methods section lacks information about what happens after mapping the reads. How are the figures generated, what software is used, etc.? It would also be helpful if the specific scripts/commands used to run the bioinformatics analysis were available. Figures: Figure 1: bioinformatic workflow: The figure gives a decent overview of the bioinformatics processing but seems to miss the visualisation tools used. The main role of Albacore is basecalling the raw data not just demultiplexing. The figure could be improved further if you include the wet lab part of the work, so it becomes clear why the demultiplexing step is included and where the raw data comes from. A mapping step is integrated in the chimera detection (removal?) workflow but it might be better to omit mentioning mapping in that step as it can be confusing that the figure has two mapping steps in a row. Figure 2: heatmap mock community: The caption needs to explain what the numbers represent e.g. percentage of sequenced reads/mapped reads. It would be great if the heatmap included the “true” composition of the mock community for comparison. Copy number for each organism in the mock would also be relevant to include in the figure. Since there are only two columns, it would be better to have the sample labels at the top and with horizontal text preferably with a name that makes it easier to interpret the figure. Figure 3a: stacked bar chart: Even though stacked bar charts are very common it is not easy to read as they lack a common baseline for most of the values (See https://solomonmg.github.io/blog/2014/when-to-use-stacked-barcharts/ and https://peltiertech.com/stacked-bar-chart-alternatives/ ). I suggest that you use more of the heatmaps instead of introducing bar charts. Figure 3b: rarefaction curves: It would be great if you could add a dashed line for the expected “true” value for the mock community. Figure 3c: WIMP tree: This figure is quite complex to read. If the point with running both WIMP and a mapping-based approach with the two different amplicon types is to compare the methods, I suggest that you try to integrate the information better into one combined figure. This way you can help the reader to understand your message. Figure 4a: stacked bar chart+heatmap dog samples: Remove the stacked bar chart. Figure 4b: stacked bar chart+heatmap dog samples: Remove the stacked bar chart. Getting rid of the bar charts would allow for making a big heatmap with the data from Figure 4A and 4B combined. This way the reader can also compare the results from the two different sample sites. A naming system that makes it clearer that “_1” and “_2” are replicates would also help the reader interpret the figure. Presenting results aggregated at different levels, which could be included in one another is a bit confusing e.g., “ Bacillus cereus ” could be included in “ Bacillus ” which again could be included in “ Bacillales ”. Figure 5: heatmap mock community contamination: It is confusing that several cells in the heatmap have a value of “0” but with very different colours. Adding some meaningful labels with the contamination vs no contamination on the top could help the reader understand the figure without reading the caption. Tables: Table 1: Primer sequences: Fine but could be moved to supplementary. Table 2: Samples and QC: Make headers easier to understand e.g. ”% seq 1st QC” could be “% of reads passing QC”, “Albacore pass” could just be “# reads after basecalling” etc. Where is the number after chimera detection? Add a column with data accession ID and move the table to supplementary then the sample names can also be expanded so the reader does not have to look to the bottom for an explanation of abbreviations. I suggest adding a column at the end with the number of reads mapping/classified for each sample so the reader know what fraction is included. Table 3: Pure culture comparison WIMP vs. mapping: You need to make it clear in the table that Staphylococcus pseudintermedius is missing from the “rrn” database. As the paper mentions genus- and species-level classification as the target you may benefit from aggregating the values for S. pseudintermedius and S. pseudintermedius HKU10-03 as splitting this into strains makes it more confusing as your numbers in the text do not match the ones in the table. Supplementary Table 1: It would be great to include the mock communities in this table as well. 