The manuscript in hands present interesting information about species diversity of tropical eels (Anguilla spp.) in Aceh, Indonesia. Although the manuscript is nicely presented, few justifications and clarification are still required. Title For general readers, using the word "waters" may make the readers confused about what type of water bodies in which the samples collected from. For example, how about using "coastal line" instead of "waters" or just delete the word "waters". Please replace the family name of eels with "Anguilla spp." to be more precise. Abstract I believe adding an introductory sentence will make the research summary more meaningful. This introductory sentence will highlight the importance of the study and make a sound justification of the study objectives. Should be read "...the present study is to evaluate..." Should be read "the western" "coastal waters" change into "coastal line" or "marine environment". Add semicolon after "namely;" Add comma after "Based on this analysis" The word "genomic" makes me confused. Is it mitochondrial or genomic gene? Please correct me if I am wrong. Introduction I would suggest extending the introduction in a way that gives the readers a comprehensive background about the research based on the available literature. It would be nice to start the introduction with an introductory paragraph to give the readers the brief understanding about the research context. Methods The procedures and tools used to collect the eel samples should be described elaborately. For example, it was stated that traps were used to catch the glass eels. It was not mentioned what type of traps? How did the researchers set the trap? For how long did they leave the traps? It will be excellent if the authors provide a geographical map showing the approximate locations of sampling sites. It would be nice to add a reference to the method of sampling the eels' tissue. Please add a reference to "Kimura 2 parameters" Results The presentation of the results is adequate and no further corrections or additions are required. Figure 1: please add "Anguilla spp." to the figure caption. 