The manuscript “ranacapa: An R package and Shiny web app to explore environmental DNA data with exploratory statistics and interactive visualizations” is describing an R package to visualize metabarcoding data and perform summary statistics. I think that such application will be very useful for quick results sharing within any project that involves stakeholders with various background. Too many projects still rely solely on a printed (or pdf) report with key chosen figures, orienting the readers towards the main messages. I do believe that such application will provide a nice complement to a project report for people that want to dive into the results, or explore the robustness of the conclusion that are highlighted in a report. I also agree with the authors that such tools are particularly interesting for sharing results with non-expert enthusiasts and students. I appreciate the accompanying text to present the specificity of composition (count) data and the possible flaws when analyzing such data. The website “Gusta Me” ( https://mb3is.megx.net/gustame ) could maybe be mentioned as an external resource for guiding further the users for the interpretation of results, or to guide any additional analysis. I wonder how such application is intended to be deployed. Do the authors plan to let research scientists deploy the app within their own computational resources or do they plan to make the application accessible ( https://gauravsk.shinyapps.io/ranacapa/ ) opened to the community? I made few comments on the GUI that the authors may or may not follow. The most important point to address would be to allow users to write their PERMANOVA model. Data import: Maybe add the expected format, with a toy example, indicating the separator character (tab or comma or semi-comma?). This is mentioned in the GitHub page of the project (not the separator though), but I think this would be nice to have it here also. My guess is that many users would not even get to the GitHub page before using the app. Sequencing depth: Would it be possible to add a “free” input field? As it is now, it is not easy to get a precise value. The slider does not allow this kind of precision, it increases or decreases by 1000 but on the demo example, it is stuck to 10006. Would it be possible to include normalization as an option? At least the relative abundance for a start, because as you mention on the accompanying text, we are far from having reach a consensus on that matter. What means the first field “select the variable”, do you mean to rarefy not samples but something else? I don’t understand. Taxonomy barplot: I personally don’t like taxonomic barplots, but I recognize that they can be useful to easily illustrate some obvious differences (or similarities) between experimental treatments to an audience unfamiliar with metabarcoding data. The lowest taxonomic ranks return a (way) too many categories. In the presented example. Even the highest taxonomic rank (phylum), it yields too many categories to easily visualize what is actually in the samples, because colors are too close to each other. There is no solution, I just don’t like these plots. But it is nice to have this option in the app anyway. Taxonomy heatmap: Is there an option to scale differently the X and Y axis? In the example dataset, it is actually a similar problem as for taxonomy barplot, lowest taxonomic rank gives too many rows on the plots. A way to better see is to zoom in, but then the horizontal axis is quite messed up. Maybe it would be nice to have input fields to manage those axes and font size. Alpha-diversity plots: I guess the data behind is the rarefied version of the dataset, but this should be clear. Maybe the box can be there, but in grey to show that it would not make sense to use the raw dataset? Alpha-diversity stats: I think this is fine. Beta-diversity plots: The users should be able to refine the ordination plots, its size, the size of each axis. Why the ordination plots configuration (and the cluster analysis) is changing when we select different variables to group the dot shapes and colors? Beta-diversity analyses: Would it be possible to let the user write his own model? As for now, it is not possible to have an interaction term, or a nested model. To be able to select the sample as variable does not make sense. 