Thanks for your revised manuscript which addressed most of my comments. In particular, the structure of the paper was improved and the notions used in your toolbox are now introduced. I also appreciated the new example which provides a better illustration of the possibilities of your package. Though I am not a native speaker myself, I feel that some issues remained in your text. Please find below suggestions to improve the writing. Abstract: I suggest the following alternative: "The network science-based determination of driver nodes and sensor placement has become increasingly popular in the field of dynamical systems over the last decade. We developed an Octave and MATLAB-compatible NOCAD toolbox which implements various methods to compute relevant structural, controllability and observability measures associated to linear or linearised systems and to compare different sensor placement methods. We illustrated the use of our toolbox in life sciences by applying it to the analyse the neural network of Caenorhabditis elegans ." Introduction: An alternative first paragraph: "In the life sciences, the determination of nodes that play a significant role in networks (e.g., in the emergence or the treatment of diseases) is an intensively researched field^1. In particular, determining the proper driver nodes, i.e. the ones that ensure physically feasible controllability with the minimum cardinality and energy requirement, in biological networks, or more generally in dynamical systems, is an important question. We refer to 2 for a detailed study of control principles in biological networks. A recent review paper presents presents the application of the network science-based determination of driver nodes to the analysis of various biological networks (protein-protein interaction -PPI- networks, Caenorhabditis elegans neuronal network, neurochemical rat brain network, Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell cycle networks, Epithelial Mesenchymal Transition -EMT- network, myeloid differentiation regulatory network and Th differentiation network) and to the identification of drug targets^3." I am not sure to well understand your sentence: "This method is capable of determining the leading phenotype transitions in biological networks that can be identified as drug targets 5" Do you mean something like: "This method is capable of determining genes controlling phenotype transitions in biological networks, thus may help to indentify drug target candidates^5" ? Please reformulate: "In large-scale human liver metabolic networks (HLMN), the driver metabolites have essential functions, moreover, the role of transport reactions and extracellular metabolites in terms of controlling HLMN have revealed the importance of the environment of human liver metabolism with regard to the health of the liver^6. Using statistical analysis, a subset of critical control nonprotein-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) enriched by human disease can also be determined^7 . In intra-cellular networks, to understand the information flow, a natural control system was utilised and the robustness of such a control was analysed^8". The paragraph is a bit confusing and the relation with your work is not obvious. I guess that the examples presented was analysed with the same approaches as those implemented in your toolbox but this should be stated somewhere. Find below, an alternative suggestion for the last paragraph. I am not sure that it is the right place for the second sentence. "The aim of this paper is to introduce the novel toolbox, NOCAD^9 , and to illustrate its applicability in the life sciences through the analyse of the local network of 131 frontal neurons of Caenorhabditis elegans^10. The NOCAD toolbox is also suitable for the comprehensive analysis of any linear or linearised dynamical systems through their static network representation^11–13. We emphasise that in our context, the expression "dynamical network" does not implies that the nodes or connections change with time but refers to networks arising from dynamical systems. The current version of NOCAD deals with only the linear case. Nonlinear system-related methods will be implemented later. In the nonlinear case, the methodology needs further clarification because for small nonlinear examples the results can be incorrect 14 and the cardinality of the assigned sensors underestimated^15 . Theoretical background and formal definitions of the representation of linear systems and of their structural controllability and observability are provided below." Other comments: page 4 col 1 first paragraph "provide the opportunity" - "allow". page 4 col 1 second paragraph "stood" - "fixed". page 4 col 2 first paragraph "if the rank of the controllability matrix is equal to the number of state variables, rank(C) = N" - "if the rank of the controllability matrix C is equal to the number of state variables, i.e., rank(C) = N" (same suggestion for the sentence about the observability matrix). page 4 col 2 "For a better understanding, we illustrate the aforementioned definitions by a small example in Figure 1 that contains the command interneurons AVAL, AVAR, AVBL, AVBR, AVDL and AVDR from the frontal neural network of neurons and synapses in C. elegans." - "Figure 1 illustrates the aforementioned definitions with a small example which contains the command interneurons AVAL, AVAR, AVBL, AVBR, AVDL and AVDR of the C. elegans' frontal neural network." page 5 col 1 end of paragraph 1: "can be seen" - "is displayed". page 5 col 2 par 2: remove the comma after "in such a way". page 6 col 1 last par.: your last sentence is too long. ", moreover," - ". It also". page 6 col 2 last par.: "can be presented by" - "are stored in". page 6-7: "The higher value indicates the more central position of the node, and now RIAL is the most central element." - "The closeness of a node measures its centrality. In our dataset, RIAL is the most central element under this criteria." page 7 col 1 par 1: "if Markov-chains are modelled" - "under Markov models". page 7 col 1 par 1: "the proportion of the number of edges of neighbours’ and the number of neighbours" - "the proportion of the number of edges of neighbours to the number of neighbours". page 7 col 1 par 1: "when determining" - "to determine". page 7 col 1 par 2: "source nodes when the node has no incoming edges, thus," - "source nodes are nodes with no incoming edges, for which". page 7 col 1 par 2: "dilation, when" - "dilation occurs when". page 7 col 1 par 2: "between internal dilation and external dilation, in the former the child node is not a leaf, i.e. it has children, while in the latter the child is a leaf node, i.e. it has no children." - "between internal dilation nodes and external dilation nodes according to whether their child node is an internal node, i.e., has children, or a leaf, i.e., has no children, respectively." page 7 col 2 last par.: "Although numerous papers used the network-based determination of driver and sensor nodes, a flexible toolbox that may be used to support the analysis has yet to be designed. To fill this gap, in this article the Octave- and MATLAB-compatible NOCAD toolbox 9 was proposed to support the network-based controllability and observability analysis of dynamical systems, and through the analysis of the neural network of C.elegans, the applicability of the toolbox in the life sciences was presented." - "Although numerous papers have utilised the network-based determination of driver and sensor nodes, a flexible toolbox implementing this approach has yet to be designed. To fill this gap, we propose the Octave- and MATLAB-compatible NOCAD toolbox 9 which performs the network-based controllability and observability analysis of dynamical systems. The applicability of the toolbox in the life sciences was demonstrated through the analysis of the neural network of C.elegans." 