In the present manuscript by Pandey et al, ‘A tiling array-based…. Indian Sub-continent’, the authors have used an array based comparative genome hybridization technique (aCGH) to identify genomic variations including copy number variations, amplifications, and deletions in field isolates from Indian sub-continent. The authors have used the technique to compare two Plasmodium falciparum field isolates with the objective of identifying genomic differences in Pf-isolate-2 ( Plasmodium causing complicated malaria) and Pf-isolate-1 (uncomplicated malaria). The study is largely a case study reporting the genomic differences in Pf-isolate-2. The study has identified amplifications in all the chromosomes of Pf-isolate-2 that are largely limited to telomeric, and sub-telomeric regions and include multigene families such as vars , rifins , and stevors . Though, this is not the first report of aCGH technique being used for comparative genome analysis, it’s application in study of field isolates is demonstrated. The study holds merit for publication in the journal however, there are some criticisms that need to be addressed. Major points: The variations including amplifications and deletions are of common occurrence between two parasite strains isolated from different patients. These variations are more prominent in telomeric and sub-telomeric regions comprising of multigene families such as var genes, etc. Even two different isolates exhibiting identical phenotypic expression may show variations in multigene families. Since the present study is focused on identifying the genomic differences in Pf-isolate-2 (causing complicated malaria) with Pf-isolate-1 (causing uncomplicated malaria), there is no experimental evidence suggestive of direct association of the CNVs found in the study with the disease phenotype. Moreover, it would have been beneficial to incorporate more samples for comparison including parasites exhibiting identical phenotypes. This would have been useful in drawing meaningful conclusions on the CNVs and disease severity. What variations in results are expected if the study were to use Next Generation Sequencing (NSG) instead of aCGH, a summary in the discussion section will be appropriate? How the results might be affected if a newer version of Plasmodium genome database was used? Mention of each gene name in the text, to describe changes, is confusing and it can be presented in the table format making it easier to read and understand. There are genes such as msp 2 ( Chaorattanakawee et al, 2018; PMID: 29342212), etc that have been demonstrated to be associated with disease severity. Did the authors found any variation in msp 2? The findings of such studies reporting genetic markers of disease severity should be discussed in detail in the discussion section. Minor points: Page 3, Introduction section: references for studies that have identified the receptors for EMP1s should be given such as ICAM-1, CD36, E-selectin, NCAM and CD31 Page 3 paragraph 3 last sentence is not necessary, just include the reference. Page 3 paragraph 5: Objective statement is too long. Reframe it to something like “The objective of this study was to identify genetic difference(s) between two parasite isolates, with varying disease severity, using aCGH tilling approach” Page 4 Table 1 legend: No need to mention the PCR condition here as it has already been mentioned in method section in Page 3 paragraph 7. Page 4 paragraph 5: Please mention what is the “GC%” and “melting temperature” considered for designing 60mer probe. Page 4 paragraph 5: Reframe the sentence “The probes were designed by calculating GC% and optimum Tm values of (65 genome sequence and calculate the GC% and melting temperature.” The Plasmodium Genome Resource used was very old (V 6.0) need to be verified with the current version of Plasmo DB (V 39.0). Please be consistent with Plasmodium Gene nomenclature as the Gene ID used were from different version of Plasmo DB it makes it difficult to follow. Grammatical mistakes: whole manuscript needs a relook to correct the grammatical and typographical errors. Page 6 Figure 2 legend: Change the font of the sentence “conserved Plasmodium membrane protein, unknown function, (PF08_0123) U2 snRNA/tRNA pseudouridine synthase, putative” from italics to normal. Moreover, the legend has many typographical mistakes, for example: “5the”, “5exones”, “5epresents”, and “the the”. Page 7 Figure 3 legend: Similar to Figure 2 legend it has also few typographical errors that needs to be corrected Page 7 All the boxes: the “V” in PlasmoDB Version as well as “P” of “P-value” needs to be consistent. Page 7 last paragraph: Rephrase the sentence “However, there is scarcity of information on genomic variation in parasites causing complicated manifestations, regions with seasonal malarial transmission.” Page 7 last paragraph line 16: Replace “a known fact” with “established” Page 7 last paragraph line 18: replace “invasion” with “evasion” Page 8 paragraph 1 line 5: “Pf-2” and not “PF-2” Reference for datasets presented in the manuscript is not required. It is an integral part of the manuscript. 