 Comments and suggestions Authors: Benito Mendoza, Nelly Guananga, Jesus R. Melendez; Daniel A. Lowy Title: Differences in total iron content at various altitudes of Amazonian Andes soil in Ecuador Summary of the manuscript: The work contains many novelties. The objectives are well founded but I miss some well-formulated hypotheses. This is very important in such well-established and well-planned research. The topic chosen increases the significance of the research. The manuscript is the original research paper of the authors. The subject of the manuscript is interesting and current. The theme of the manuscript’s scope fits the aims of the journal. Most probably the manuscript will be of great interest, contributing to the reading of the journal. It is suitable for indexing in F1000Research journal. The basic idea of the experiment was carried out precisely, the study provided large amount of high quality data. The Abstract is quite concise and sums up the essence of the manuscript appropriately. The abstract properly introduces the topic, summarizes the methods used and the results obtained. It is summarizes the essence of the manuscript. Keywords: I suggest replacing some of the key words. The keywords that are included in the manuscript title should be replaced. Introduction The chapter is well structured. It fits in well with the manuscript theme, and establishes and complements the whole research topic. This chapter comprehensively supports the whole manuscript with literature. Appropriate and timely references are built in the introduction chapter. The chapter detailed and well processed. Methods The methods chapter are appropriate and sufficiently detailed. In my opinion, soil sampling and soil analysis methods are sufficiently detailed, but the research area description is inadequate. For better identification and understanding of the results, I suggest a brief description of the sampling area. Results The interpretation of results is generally proper. Results chapter is detailed. These chapters are well-structured and properly constructed. This chapters provide detailed and perfectly summarizes the new and novel results. It contains a number of useful experience and findings. The authors show the results using a graph. Evaluation of these results is appropriate and draws realistic conclusions. On the other hand, it make useful and interesting findings that may be interested. Conclusions The chapter summarizes and well sums up the essence of the manuscript. This chapter explain and justified by the data. I think that the allegations are supported by the data and results. The manuscript is suitable for indexing after an above-mentioned minor revisions. 