I find it a great idea to share the design of the proposed studies with the scientific community. In general, the aim of the research is great and the methods to be used are largely appropriate. The authors deserve the credit for providing details on given experimental objectives, including randomisation, blinding, power calculation and desrciption of the experimental procedures, which all increase the transparency and credibility of these studies. Specific points: 1. It is stated that the studies will be completed in 12 months, which is doable given that all mouse strains are available and breeding on site. Based on what is described in the methods, it remains unclear how long it will take to establish breeding colonies from the phagocytosis-deficient strains derived from The Jackson Laboratory and how the phenotype of these will be compared to the control animals, which will be obtained from another vendor (Charles River). For such studies comparing different KO lines, it would be useful to ensure the identitiy of the background ideally by establishing heterozygous breeding colonies and use littermates for the experiments. C57BL/6 (and other) mouse stains from different vendors could show markedly different inflammatory or phagocytic responses that could influence the interpretation of the results. 2. In addition to using Mfge8 KO mice, the pharmacological inhibition of the microglial MFG-E8 receptor is also proposed in the methods. If phagocytic signaling will be blocked by intraperitoneal administration of the antagonist, will this regimen effectively reach areas of the brain where there is no major BBB injury? Details on brain penetration and pharmacokinetics of the drug (if known) would be useful. 3. The phagocytosis-deficient lines and pharmacological inhibitors will likely change phagocytic responses in all tissue macrophages, including perivascular macrophages in the brain (the latter will possibly be influenced by the pharmacological treatment earlier than microglia). Unless the authors plan sophisticated studies on descriminating microglial actions from that of blood-borne phagocytes that may be recruited into the affected brain areas, it may be mose useful to talk about microglia /macrophages throughout. Iba1 is not an ideal marker either to discriminate brain microglia /macrophages of different origin. 4. Several excellent sensory-motor tests are planned for functional assessment, among which the staircase requires extensive conditioning and testing. Has the same battery of tests been successfully used in similar MCAo studies previously? Extensive testing might lead to overtraining of mice and a reduction of differences in performance between experimental groups in spite of the expected changes in the number of surviving neurons. The notes above merely aim to help the interpretation of these excellent studies rather than suggesting extensive changes in experimental design, particularly regarding costly breeding and determination of microglial-specific effects. Have the authors pre-specified sufficient outcome-neutral tests for ensuring that the results obtained can test the stated hypotheses, including positive controls and quality checks? Yes. 