In this study Morawetz, Chittka, and Spaethe present results from a behavioral paradigm for honeybees where they examine spatial attention. Bees were trained to select a color, using classical conditioning with sugar versus quinine. Trained bees were then presented with various scenarios whereby the targets were presented together with distracters, either in the upper or lower visual field. The authors find that targets in the ventral field led to a more efficient search strategy. Importantly, it appears that honeybees form expectations about where their target will be, in repeated flights. These are interesting results, which help consolidate the view that insects display a selective attention. In particular, the data supporting the view that there is an expectation already formed early in the flight angle is very intriguing. It is nice to see a paper where the behavior itself is examined closely, rather than only the proportion of choice outcomes. This helps to better show how attention might be operating in these simple animals. The paper is close to indexation quality. There are a couple questions that might need to be attended to, to further improve the quality of the work. First, it is quite unclear how the position of the decision line was arrived at. While it is evidently depending on previously published work, one concern is that varying the position of this decision line might substantially change the results and conclusions. The decision line is currently 5cm away from the end wall, and both metrics (error rate and decision time) depend on this distance. Clearly, a bee flying downwards is exploiting gravity to get to the decision line, while a bee flying upwards is fighting gravity. This simple factor could account for the different flight dynamics seen for either situation (as is evident in the informative single examples shown in Figure 5). Can the authors exclude a non-trivial explanation here for the effects of gravity? With regard to the error rate for example, it is not clear whether a is meaningful here. Maybe bees fly more erratically upwards (they do). More generally, it would be good to have a bit more of a rationale for why this 5cm point was chosen. How different would the results have been at 7cm or 10cm? Second, the error rate metric does not seem to account for proximity. Thus, a bee crossing the decision line close to the target is as equally wrong as a bee crossing a whole square away? This seems strange. Should the error rate be weighted in some way? How might that change the results? Minor: Sareen et al (2011) showed that fruit fly attention is mostly ventral. This might be discussed a bit more, in connection to the current findings in the bee.