 Introduction Research question: The authors have aimed to look at the effect of prolonged use of low dose aspirin on hearing. The question is relevant as most of the previous studies on the subject have looked at the effect of high dose aspirin. Aim and objectives stated in abstract and introduction differ from the ones stated in the Methods section. These need to be stated clearly and consistently. Methods Study design: The authors have done a cross sectional comparative study between patients with cardiac disease on aspirin, and controls without cardiac disease and not on aspirin. Controls cannot be termed ‘healthy’. They were age-matched subjects without heart disease, and not on aspirin therapy. If age matched controls were selected, why is there a difference in the number of cases and controls? Were there any drop outs from the study? What were the criteria for diagnosing hearing loss? Since patients did not have a baseline audiological test, how were hearing loss and progression of hearing loss defined? Were questionnaires used? Where they standardized? Systemic risk factors for hearing loss e.g. Diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease, also had to be ruled out.’ (para 5 in Methods section) These factors were present both in cases and controls (see Datasets). These factors were not ruled out. They were noted as potential confounders in both groups, and addressed in the logistic regression analysis. Chronic kidney disease has been mentioned along with diabetes and hypertension as a confounding factor in the beginning of the manuscript. However, there is no mention of chronic kidney disease in the rest of the manuscript and data sets, and it has not been addressed in the logistic regression model. Please clarify. Results Baseline demographic data should be put in a table to ensure clarity. Please depict the tinnitus and hearing loss in cases and controls, with p-values, as tables. CKD was not included as part of the logistic regression. Why not? Please clarify. The textual interpretation of this could also be better worded. Audiometric data need to be added both in the data set and the results. Discussion The discussion needs to be clearer, more concise, and should proceed in a logical sequence. In the discussion, the authors should cite studies that have shown that aspirin could cause hearing loss, and how the current study differs from them, and possible reasons as to why. Then they should discuss studies and theories to the contrary, that agree with the results of the current study. This should be done in a logical and concise manner. Please avoid unnecessary and confusing details of various theories that have no direct implication on the subject of research. The ‘prevalence’ of hearing loss in both cases and controls is far above the prevalence quoted in existing literature. Is there an explanation for this? Please give reference number for Curhan et al’s paper at the end of the first citation in the manuscript. (para 1 in discussion) The comparison of the present study with Curhan et al’ s work is not very clear. Are the authors trying to imply that their results conflict with those of this work because the majority of their study population (both cases and controls) was above the age of 60? Please make this clear. Conclusion Conclusion should correspond with the aim and objectives of the study. The present study found no relationship between long term, low dose aspirin use and hearing loss. Moreover, the study did not find any correlation between hearing loss and systemic diseases; hence the last line in the conclusion is not supported by the results of the study, and therefore, may be deleted. General comments Correction of grammar needs to be done throughout the manuscript. Terminology such as ‘cases’ and ‘controls,’ and ‘incidence’ and ‘prevalence’ has been used loosely and interchangeably. This is not acceptable. On the whole, the paper addresses a relevant research question, and may be indexed after making the suggested corrections. 