 Title: I think the title should be revised as "Reproductive biology and breeding of the Asian catfish ( Hemibagrus wyckii ) after domestication process. In the title: (Hemibagris wyckii Bagridae) is missed understanding, the correct written should be Hemibagrus wyckii : Bagridae), because Bagridae is a Family level, or you can write in as ( Hemigarus wyckii Bleeker, 1858) Abstract: Background: ..... I think "most" should be deleted because sound so emotional or hyperbolic, just say ".... is one of the important economic fish species...." Methods: Please mention where the brood fish is come from? Conclusion: The conclusions is out of the context. You have to make conclusion just based on the data (findings), forget for candidate species for aquaculture, because, there was no detail discussion about this issue, so just focus on your present findings. Keywords: I suggest don't use similar words which already exist in the title. Introduction: I think the state of the arts about the asian catfish is still shallow or unclear, so please provide more information about the previous studies on this species related to bio ecology, feeding, aquaculture etc. Please add some information what is the advantages of the species compared to other freshwater species? Methods: Please cite these references to enhance your methods: Muchlisin et al ., 2010 1 Muchlisin et al., 2011 2 Results: The results have been explained in several short paragraphs, please extend the paragraph by combining paragraph 1, 2 in one paragraph and paragraph 3 and 4 in one paragraph. Discussion: There was no comprehensive discussion to justify why this species is potential for aquaculture. The justification is not only based on biological aspects but also on economic consideration (see Muchlisin, 2013 3 ). Unfortunately, there was no economic evaluation performed.Therefore, I suggest to focus only on the finding as already presented. Conclusion: The conclusion has to be revised. Conclusion is based on the finding, not assumption or interpretation. 