The current study investigated whether multiple objects are processed serially or in parallel by testing the impact of global and local feature distortions on identification performance. Specifically, participants identified whether an object belonging to a particular category was present in a display consisting of 1-3 objects. Local distortion was applied by masking images with stripes masking the background color of the display, thereby occluding local object features while preserving the global shape outline. Global distortion was accomplished by warping objects in an image editor, allowing full view of the object despite deformations in individual features and the global object outline. Results indicate that such distortion led to slowed responses and decreased accuracy in identifying an object category, but this is attributed on differences in the exposure duration (~2x longer viewing time for distorted stimuli to achieve similar performance to originals). Increasing the number of categories present in a display was associated with lower accuracy and slower response times when 2 or more objects were shown. No reaction time differences were observed in the key contrast between the 2 or 3 object displays, yet accuracy was higher with 2 vs. 3 objects in the 2 category case. Based on these findings, the author argues that multiple objects can be identified simultaneously, but only when they belong to the same category. The lack of performance differences between locally and globally distorted stimuli was interpreted as evidence that object identification relies on both local and global features. While it is written clearly and the question is interesting as other work indeed suggests the plausibility of multiple object identification in parallel, I have statistical and methodological concerns related to the interpretation of these results that I list below: 1. A two-way ANOVA is not the appropriate statistical test given my understanding that all participants completed the same task. A 2-way repeated measures ANOVA should be used instead. This may explain the extremely large F-values and within-groups degrees of freedom (i.e., DFwithin = 27822 for all main effects and the interaction). I am unsure how this value was obtained. The correct DFwithin should be 285 for stimulus type ((6 groups - 1)*(58 participants - 1) = 5*57 = 285), 114 for distortion ((3 groups - 1)*(58 participants - 1) = 2*57 = 114), and 570 for the interaction (5*2*57 = 570). This test should be redone correctly and accurately reported to confirm the reported results hold. 2. Another concern is that the primary conclusion for parallel object identification within a single category is based on a failure to reject the null. No power analysis is reported to indicate the chance of a Type II error. A powerful approach to address evidence in favor of the null would be to use Bayes Factors (for examples, see Wagenmakers, 2007 1 ; Jarosz Wiley, 2014 2 ). This can be easily implemented in JASP (Love et al., 2015 3 ) - freely available, user friendly software that the author could use to conduct a Bayesian version of the two-way repeated measures test discussed above that would allow a direct test of the likelihood that the null hypothesis (no RT difference between identifying 2 or 3 objects of the same category) is a better model of the data than the alternative (a difference). Jarosz Wiley (2014) is an excellent resource for how to interpret the results of such a test and what strength of evidence favoring either hypothesis may be. 3. The use of occluding bars for local distortion is somewhat odd given that the same 'whirl and pinch' effects could be applied to the interior of objects without distorting the global boundary. A brief description of why these disparate methods were chosen or examples in previous literature would be helpful for the reader. I look forward to seeing a revised version of this work once these concerns have been properly addressed. 