This is an interesting case report, presenting the rare finding of a serous borderline ovarian tumor with a synchronous high grade serous carcinoma in the peritoneum. The introduction and discussion are well written. The case report itself, essentially relies on the pathological diagnosis, which in my opinion is insufficiently demonstrated. My comments are remarks are the following: Abstract: “either as non-invasive or invasive implants, also known as extraovarian low-grade serous carcinoma.” – change to “the latter also known…” Introduction: “In order to meet criteria for PPC, both ovaries and tubes should be macro- and microscopically normal in size or enlarged by a benign process” – This is not entirely correct. If the tube has, for example, STIC, the tumor should be considered of tubal origin, yet it may have a perfectly normal size. “largely overlap their ovarian counterparts” – change to “tubal and ovarian counterparts” Case report: The ovarian tumor is large (19cm), was an adequate sampling done to exclude an invasive component? In the presence of a HGSC in the peritoneum, total inclusion of the adnexa, particularly the tube following the SEE-FIM protocol, should be done to exclude a tubal primary – was this done? Were there any precursor lesions in the Fallopian tube epithelia? The case reports a “frozen pelvis” – weren’t the tubes involved by the tumor? HGSC can architecturally simulate LGSC in the peritoneum. The two basic criteria to distinguished HGSC and LGSC are the nuclear atypia and mitotic index (as emphasized in manuscript reference 11), but none of which are mentioned in the case description. HGSC may also simulate a BST architecture in the ovary, but the cytological features and immunohistochemical profile are very different. Please provide the morphological description (including architectural patterns, cytological features, mitotic index) as well as the immunohistochemical profile of both neoplasias to support the diagnosis. p53 should be report as wild type or aberrant (null or diffusely positive). Variable p53 positivity occurs in wild type patterns. Aberrant p16 overexpression and a very high proliferation index (Ki-67) would also support the differential diagnosis between HGSC and LGSC. Were there any lesions in the hysterectomy specimen, namely in the endometrium? Histological pictures are all low-power. A and C show similar aspects. Legend mentions the left ovary, which is not shown – consider deleting this from the legend as it is already in the case report text. I suggest making a panel with low and high power magnifications showing the architectural and cytological features, plus p53 expression, of both neoplasias. Was any genetic study performed, namely for BRCA1/2 or BRAF mutations? Discussion: First paragraph – Kurman’s dualistic model and Malpica’s two tier system are different concepts. Thus, the last phrase can not start with “this”. Estrogen and progesterone expression is mentioned in the discussion, but is not in the case report description. Provide the extension of ER and PR expression in both tumors. PR expression was negative in the BST? 