Grinstein and Treister present and discuss survey data collected from 190 US-based postdoctoral researchers examining life satisfaction and career goals of respondents. Their data suggest that postdocs in the US are less satisfied with their life than the general population, and that their career goals drift further away from academic research as they progress though their fellowship(s). Such data is useful and adds to a growing body of evidence that point to systemic failures in the way postdocs are treated. While Grinstein and Treister do a good job of describing the data, the analysis is fairly light, and several questions are left unconsidered. Most importantly, in looking for correlates of life satisfaction, what does it say that the explanatory variables you have used don’t explain this data? In addition to several major revisions, I also suggest that the authors discuss how their work relates to similar data from recent articles (for example [ref1] - 4 . Major revisions Considering the general tone of the manuscript is descriptive, I would strongly urge plotting each of the correlation analyses (life satisfaction vs gender, age …), and reporting R 2 values (I think that these are easily generated as the tests have already been done) and simply discussing any observed correlations. The lack of significance in such a small dataset does not automatically indicate that there is nothing interesting going on. At the very least, I think the correlation between “lab atmosphere” and life satisfaction should be plotted, and the tests/software used for the correlation analyses clearly detailed in the methods section (linear regression?). Furthermore, a correlation coefficient of 0.247 is reported – is this really the R value or the R 2 ? If the former, then the R 2 = 0.06, which means that “lab atmosphere” explains only 6% of the variability in reported life satisfaction scores, which suggests there could be some other explanatory variables that haven’t been considered. This should be discussed. A second major issue relates to Figure 1. Here, it is reported in the first sentence of the results that the mean satisfaction score was 4.47, but the colouring of figure 1 suggests that postdocs fall in the 5.5-7.0 bracket. In either case, I would suggest that this only serves to highlight the many caveats of a) self-reporting of life satisfaction and b) making comparisons between data sets collected under different conditions. Do the authors really think that, with a mean life satisfaction of 4.47, postdocs in the US are (quite considerably) less satisfied with life than residents of some of the poorest, most poverty-stricken countries in the world? If not, I recommend that this figure be removed entirely. Perhaps a more meaningful comparison to make would be between the US population (per state/demographic?) and US-based postdocs. To ensure reproducibility, Dataset 1 should be resubmitted as an excel compatible file (or.txt, .csv) instead of, or in addition to, the .sav they currently provide. Minor points What do the alpha values refer to throughout the manuscript (e.g. α=.90)? These either need to be removed or discussed in the Methods section. Table 1 should be more formally presented (or see suggestion 1) and formatted i.e succinct, descriptive title and footnote describing ‘n’, and why there are missing values i.e discrepancy between 190 and 178). This applies to all other figures: The title should be concise, and followed by a legend that describes the figure in sufficient detail. Commentaries on the figure – such as in Fig.2 – belong in the main body of the results section. Why do you make the assumption that postdocs who answered your survey are “typically already affiliated with a top-tier academic affiliation”? “Satisfaction with life” should be replaced with “life satisfaction” throughout manuscript. Remove “Less than a third” in sentence containing “Only 28.4% “agreed” or “definitely agreed” to recommend the postdoc path to others. Less than a third.”. Figure 2 should be reproduced at a higher quality – it appears very pixilated on my screen. Grammatical mistakes Introduction Replace “kids” with “children” or similar in sentence containing “personal life (marriage, kids) on hold.” Results Replace “Further” with “Furthermore” in sentence containing “Further, 30% of participants demonstrate” Consider revising repetitive sentence containing “typically already affiliated with a top-tier academic affiliation” Pluralise “type” in sentence containing “Further, prior work on satisfaction with life of other type of skilled trainees” Discussion Replace “scarce” with “scarcer” or “more scarce” in sentence containing “On the other hand, however, the growing realization that these positions are scarce than ever before” Remove “they” from sentence containing “they should consider adopting” Catalysts should not be plural in sentence containing “could be another catalysts for postdocs to re-think” Several recent survey-based articles that would be worth comparing to Reader’s responses from Nature poll 1 Analysis of academic workforce in US 3 Large analysis of US census data 2 Survey of UK-based biomedical researchers 4 The Royal Society: The Scientific Century: securing our future prosperity. 2010 Suggestions Table 1 would be better represented as a several bar charts You report that “out of a list of potential explanatory variables of satisfaction with life among postdocs … only one factor …”. Even if this is mostly negative data, this would make a nice figure, as it’s quite surprising to me that you find no correlation between some of your explanatory variables Representing Fig.2 as a 3D bar chart adds nothing at a loss of clarity. Consider replotting as a conventional 2D bar chart 