 General Comments: Lipocalins play a role in the cellular trafficking of pheromones and are involved in allergic responses to domestic pets. Cross-reactivity among allergens of this group has been poorly explored, and the pheromone linking capacity is not well characterized. The Main objective of this study was to investigate cross-reactive epitopes and pheromone linking capacity among Rat n 1, and homologues in domestic pets, through an in silico approach. The ElliPro and BepiPred in silico tools were used to predict B cell linear and cross-reactive epitopes. The pheromone linking capacity was explored by docking virtual screening with 2-ethylhexanol, 2,5-dimethylpyrazine, 2-sec-butyl-4,5-dihydrothiazole, and 2-heptanone ligands. Rat n 1 shares 52% identity with Equ c 1, Can f 6, Fel d 4, and Mus m 1 allergens. The analysis of the overlapping structures revealed high structural homology. Four lineal and 3 discontinuous epitopes were predicted on Ra t n 1. A lineal epitope located between amino acids residues 24 and 36 was highly conserved on all allergens explored. A cross-reactive discontinuous epitope was also found. Docking molecular simulations revealed the region involved in linking ligands. The authors identified the properties of the binding of four pheromones and the binding potential of Rat n 1. The authors Critical residues for interactions are reported in this study. The authors have identified some possible allergens from Rattus norvegicus , and those allergens could have cross-reactivity with allergens from other mammalian species. The results should be confirmed in in vitro studies and could be utilized to design specific immunotherapy products to treat allergic diseases related to lipocalins. Specific Comments: This is a very interesting well-presented study. The Introduction contains the relevant information and in the Discussion section, the results are well compared and discussed. The article may contain too many figures and Tables, and some of them could be replaced with a complete description in the text and avoid duplication. The abstract has been revised by this reviewer and could be interesting for the authors to see my suggestions/corrections. Some of the conclusions may be too far reaching and could be changed. 