The manuscript describes the isolation of bacteriocin derived from probiotic bacteria isolated from shrimp and lobster. This compound is tested against pathogenic bacteria. However, there are some improvement notes in some parts. Abstract The research objective in the abstract has not been clearly written. Are bacteriocins obtained from shrimp or from bacteria that live on shrimp? There is a typo in the method section in the abstract. Bacteriiocin was written 2 times. In the abstract: the sentence Bacteriocin activity against is written 2 times. The results of chromatographic column analysis and HPLC have not been written in the results section of the abstract. Methodology Assay of bacteriocin activity, need to be re-examined. Need to be written clearly, how many bacteriocins are inserted into each well? In order to be able to track how to calculate the inhibition per ml. Unit diameter should be mm NOT mm2. In methodology purification methods, the use of ammonium sulfate, only one concentration is 80%. What is the basis? If there have been previous studies, it is necessary to mention here referring to whose research? Use of the term the purification of proteins with ammonium sulfate is inappropriate. There is a discrepancy in the designation term. In the abstract, it is stated that purification is done by chromatography column. But in the methodology, protein purification is carried out with ammonium sulfate. In the methodology, there is step gel filtration. What is the use of gel filtration for? For purification only, or for specific analysis. Need to write a clear title in this method. In the methodology, analysis with HPLC is used to analyze what. Need to be written in the methodology. Discussion Especially for the discussion of gel filtration, only the stages of the method are explained. The method stage should be written on the methodology not in the results and discussion. In sub discussion, it is better not to repeat mentioning the actual data already in the results section. In this sub-chapter, what should be written is the discussion of the data in the results section. Conclusion The last sentence from the conclusion is incorrect, because the researchers did not test bacteriocin activity against spoilage bacteria but against pathogenic bacteria. 