Comment #1: I am not familiar with the term Cycle Threshold, “ C T ”. The term is introduced in the first paragraph of the Methods and then mentioned again in the last paragraph of the Methods. It would have been helpful to me to have had a brief discussion of this term in the Introduction or Methods. The C T values were discussed in full paragraphs in the Results and Discussion sections so it is clearly an important metric for this study and there could be other readers not familiar with C T . Comment #2: Evaluation of microbiologic results in bronchiectasis patients is difficult. First, there is no “gold standard” test for identifying potential respiratory pathogens in the lungs of these patients. Microbiome studies suggest that a large number of potential respiratory pathogens populate the lungs of these patients but do not help determine which one(s) are responsible for symptoms or clinical deterioration and therefore might benefit from therapy. Similarly, microbiology results from BAL do not necessarily identify pathogens responsible for symptoms and clinical deterioration. I think these observations are pertinent with regard to the sensitivity and specificity claims of the authors. In Table 1, it is apparent that mouth flora is not sampled with the cough technique avoiding an important mechanism of specimen contamination. In Table 2, however, there is poor concordance between sputum and cough with regard to Pseudomonas and Staph , with these 2 potential pathogens isolated more commonly with sputum than cough. One interpretation of that observation is that sputum is more sensitive than cough for recovering potential respiratory pathogens in CF. The more frequent isolation of multiple respiratory pathogens with sputum could be interpreted the same way especially in light of the microbiome data. I am unsure where the authors believe the source of the “excess” Pseudomonas and Staph (as well as the specimens with multiple pathogens) is for sputum patients? Are they suggesting these “excess” isolates are “contaminants”? Comment #3: I think the authors have convincingly shown that the PneumoniaCheck™ device avoids upper airway bacterial contamination during specimen collection with cough in CF patients. I think their findings with regard to the number and type of CF related respiratory pathogens and the clinical significance of those pathogens remains to be elucidated.