In this report Suntharalingham and colleagues investigate the extent to which variations in a known negative regulator of cell growth (CDKN1C) may be involved in isolated growth restriction or recurrent pregnancy loss. They approach this in several ways: Through analysis of published literature Through analysis of CDKN1C expression in multiple tissues using available RNA-seq data Targeted sequencing in a number of patient populations. As a result of the literature search, they conclude that reported variants are located in the PCNA-binding domain of CDKN1C and therefore focus on this for their sequencing analysis. The analysis of available RNA-seq data suggests that the gene is highly expressed in placenta, suggesting it may have a role in pregnancy maintenance. Sequencing analysis revealed no pathogenic variants in the targeted region of CDKN1C suggesting this is an uncommon cause of fetal growth restriction or recurrent pregnancy loss. The paper is well written and easy to read, with appropriate citation of the literature. Minor comments: PubMed search terms appear quite limited. Are the authors certain they have not missed any papers by not including terms such as IUGR, FGR, SGA? Do the pregnancies/children in the FGR/IUGR group have any other complications? The term 'usually a history of live births' in table 2 is rather vague. Were any of these live births also affected by FGR/IUGR etc. or by pregnancy complications commonly associated with poor fetal growth e.g. pre-eclampsia. In table 2 - do the numbers in brackets refer to the number of families with that variant or the number of affected individuals within a family? Given the limited number of publications describing pathogenic mutations in the PCNA-binding domain of CDKN1C in IMAGe syndrome, familial SRS and in a single family with FGR and early adult onset diabetes, are the researchers planning to analyse other regions of the gene/its regulatory regions for other variations which may affect expression? Could they take this on to include analysis of placental gene expression/protein expression/function in assocision with analysis of sequence variation? 