 This brief report described a method for aggregating matrix producing cells such as chondrocytes using synthetic hydrogel polymers. The polymers were used merely as non-adherent 'containers' to aggregate the cells. Indeed, many labs coat plastic wells with agarose to prevent cells seeded onto other biomaterials from sticking to the plastic well during the tissue engineering process. It is important to note that the proposed study does not prove in any way if using the investigated polymers in this fashion is any better than say centrifuged pellets or using ultra-low adherence plates that can come in all kinds and shapes. The study however proves that the tested commercial polymers are biocompatible and permissive to cell aggregation. Hydrogels are inert material by nature unless they are functionalised or modified chemically. Indeed, the authors demonstrate no difference in the gross appearance of the aggregates between the different polymers used. Furthermore, it is not clear what outcome is expected using either cell type in the study. What was the expected outcome for culturing chondrocytes or pulp cells using this method? The results do not determine whether the polymers merely supported cell aggregation or driven their differentiation. To this end, staining of specific matrix proteins such as aggrecan or type II collagen in the case of chondrocytes for example is critical to answer this question. Other issues that the authors should address include: 1) show photos for histological analysis of all samples (including control). This applies for all kinds of staining (HE, type II collagen, aggrecan, markers of dental pulp cells?). 2) dental pulp cells are uncharacterised. What are they?! How are they expected to behave on plastic or in other similar culture systems? 2) state the number of animals used in each case (n number). Anything less than 3 makes the results questionable. 3) higher magnification photos are needed for figures 1 to 4. 4) rehash the discussion which is not structured and minimal. The authors are advised to read this article: http://www.bmj.com/content/318/7193/1224 If the authors fulfill all of the above then this short report can be approved for publication. 