This workflow outlines a step-by-step differential expression analysis of a publicly available RNA-seq dataset using several well-established Bioconductor packages such as limma and edgeR and the novel Glimma package. The workflow describes in detail the key steps that are generally performed as part of most standard, count-based RNAseq analyses: pre-processing, exploratory data analysis, differential expression testing and pathway analysis. Each of the steps is carefully explained and broken down into a series of logical substeps, which also include R code and example output. Furthermore, this workflow is a good example of how multiple Bioconductor packages can be applied in a real-world RNAseq analysis. Overall, I think this is a very clearly written and well-explained workflow that not only highlights the utility of combining Bioconductor packages for RNAseq analysis but also demystifies the process for those who may be interested in learning what an RNAseq analysis involves. Although some familiarity with R and statistical concepts would be advantageous, they are not necessary to be able to follow the logic behind the steps and what each step is trying to achieve. I have tested the R code under R 3.3.0 and Bioconductor 3.0 and it ran without errors. Minor comments: As this workflow will be of particular use for those who are very new to RNAseq analysis, I think it should be explained why 1 CPM is chosen as the cutoff for lowly expressed genes. In addition, it may be useful to show the relationship between CPM and raw counts and how the selected cutoff relates to numbers of reads. In the gene set testing section, it is worth mentioning that the Hallmark gene sets (also available from the Broad MSigDB) may be a good starting point for pathway analysis as they “summarise and represent specific well-defined, states or processes”. Also, for those who are new to RNAseq analysis, it may be worth mentioning that there are other gene set testing methods available in limma e.g. roast etc. and a very brief explanation of when the different methods are appropriate. General comment regarding Glimma plots: it would be handy to see the gene symbol (if available) as well as EntrezID in the title of the scatter plot next to the MD plot. 