In this paper, the authors present a method and the R-package 'asdetect' to detect abrupt shifts in time series data. The approach relies on identifying anomalous changes in the gradient of a time series. The tools provided by the R-package 'asdetect' are important and interesting. They will be a nice complement to the set of tools already available in the literature. For example, previous approaches such as one of the functions implemented in the R package 'changepoint' searches for changes in the mean, rather than the gradient. The paper is well-written. The methods presentation could nonetheless be improved. I hereafter suggest some changes that may help improve the clarity and make the paper more accessible. I would slightly reorganize the structure of the paper to gather all the methods in a single place in the paper. As it is now, part of the methods is in the introduction and the rest in the methods. Part of the information needed to understand the methods is also online, in the help of the R-package and in the Readme file of the github repository. It would greatly improve the clarity of the methods presentation if all the information needed was gathered in a single location. Therefore, I would move the last 5 paragraphs of the introduction to the methods part (all the text after 'We begin with a time series of length n', at the bottom of the left column of p. 2). In the third paragraph of the left column of p. 2, I would also move the sentence mentioning the function 'as_detect()' to the methods. This will make the introduction less technical and more focused on giving the intuition of the methods. This will also decrease the amount of repetitions between the introduction and the methods. In the introduction, after the third paragraph of the left column of p. 2, I would spend a few more words explaining the intuition of the approach and the difference with other methods, such as the ones implemented in the 'changepoint' package. Figure 1b is a convincing illustration of the differences in outputs given by the two approaches for drifting time series. However, there is also not quite enough information about 'changepoint' for the reader to truly understands what it does (and why, in the example of Figure 1b, it detects a shift in the middle of the time series). I am not very familiar with 'changepoint', but it seems that the package provides several methods to detect changes in time series and that cpt.mean(), which is the function used by the authors for the comparison here, is only one of them. As mentioned by the authors, there are also other methods and packages available and it's unclear why so much emphasis is put on 'changepoint' in this paper. I would clarify all of this in the introduction, and in particular state that Figure 1b is one illustrative example of a striking difference between this approach and previous ones, obtained when using one of the possible functions of 'changepoint'. The presentation of the methods could be improved by more explicitly mentioning the different steps of the analysis. - Merging the end of the introduction with the start of the 'Implementation' part of the methods will help. - Also, a graphical presentation of the different steps performed with the names of the corresponding functions of the package as well as what they take as input and what they give as output would be very useful. - When the function as_detect() is mentioned in the text, it would help to say that is takes a time series as input and gives back a 'detection time series' as output. - The 'detection time series' should be clearly defined the first time it is mentioned (i.e. the fact that it is a vector of the same length of the time series which will contains information about the proportion of times a significant gradient was detected at that time step). Right now, there is a vague explanation in the first paragraph of the right column of p. 2 ('For those points in time...'), but the actual explanation is in the results part of the paper. It could stay that way, but then the first time it is mentioned, instead of a general reference to Figure 2, a more specific reference to the left column of Figure 2 would be less confusing, because the reader only gets the information needed to understand the two other columns of Figure 2 (and especially how panels f and i are obtained) after reading the elements currently given in the methods. An alternative may be to move the explanation of Figure 2 to the methods. - Also, it might be helpful to mention in the legend of Figure 2 that panel f contains the information from b and e, and that panel i is derived from information from b, e and h. - In the second paragraph of the right column of p. 2, "although both have a default; see below". I would specify that this is in the discussion of the paper (e.g. replace 'see below' by 'see discussion'). - At the beginning of the last paragraph of p. 2, when the function where_as() is introduced, it would help to mention the two outputs of that function. - It was not really clear to me what the function rle() gives as an output (last paragraph of p. 2). It would also help if such information was added to the readme file of the Github repository (which is really useful to get practically started with the package). - In the methods, I would divide the 'implementation' part in two: one part explaining the approach (and including the last paragraphs of the current introduction), and another part for the presentation of the example time series used (i.e. in the right column of p. 3 create a new subparts called 'Data'?). In the results, in the second paragraph of p. 6, I did not find the explanations of what happens for the flat time series very clear. Why is this 'useful as it is not the type of abrupt shift that would usually want to be detected'? I am not sure what the authors mean. How is this also 'picked up by the third function'? (Here, I would also mention the name of the function explicitly.) - Caveats of the approach are presented in the results of the flat sections of time series. Is that the only situation where this approach is expected to give a false positive? Are there other situations where this method would fail to detect a shift or wrongly detect one? The authors briefly mention in the introduction of the paper that this approach can be viewed as complementary to others. I would mention that again in the discussion by saying something about the difficulty in detecting shifts in noisy data and the importance of using a combination of tools to improve detectability. Minor points: In the abstract, it is mentioned that 'we present a comparison with the method...': this comparison is however not really systematic and complete, in particular since (as far as I understood) it uses only one of the functions of the package. I would reformulate this sentence e.g. as 'we illustrate differences with one of the commonly used function of the changepoint R package'. In the readme file of the Github repository, it would help to add that after installation, the package has to be loaded with library('asdetect'), as it is done in the text in the 'Operation' part. In the help of the as_detect() function, the default value for lowwl is not mentioned(?). In the results, first paragraph, the sentence 'a similar time series...' can be deleted. There is no need to repeat this. In the results, first paragraph, '..., but we only show three distinct values' ('we' lacking?). In the results, second paragraph, 'This results in -1 and 1': I would remind at the end of that sentence that the detection time series has the same length as the original time series. In the results, second paragraph of p. 4: 'in our second function': I would say the name of the function for clarity. First paragraph of p. 5: 'according to our method, the PDO is a red noise process' (remove 'that'?). Second paragraph of the left column of p. 5: I was a bit confused by the sentence: '...these types of behaviour are not necessarily picked up strongly...' but the value of -0.69 is pretty high, isn't? Second paragraph of the left column of p. 5, last sentence: maybe show this? Last paragraph of the left column of p. 5: 'We have created a third function...', but other functions have been mentioned in between. To avoid confusion, I would say 'we have created another function...'. Also, it would be helpful to add this function (with an example of use) in the readme file of the Github repository. Last paragraph of p. 5: maybe specify again that you use only one of the functions of change point (maybe if this is more clearly stated at the beginning of the paper, this won't be needed here anymore). Last paragraph of the results: '...and so although it is used for detecting...' ('it' missing?) First paragraph of the right column of p. 6: the maximum value of l is mentioned two times in that paragraph. Delete one of them. Third paragraph of the right column of p. 6: 'our second function': for clarity, mention the name of the function. 