Edward Gilbert-Kawai and colleagues involved in the Xtreme Everest 2 study report further work on the effects of altitude and hypoxaemia on the microcirculation. They describe a technique for rapidly measuring microcirculatory capillary density, using a method of counting the number of capillary loops in the buccal mucosa of healthy volunteers at sea level, progressive altitude acclimatisation and descent. They also report systemic haemoglobin and haematocrit values in an attempt to elucidate whether changes in microcirculatory parameters are paralleled by changes in blood viscosity. Their results show, in line with previous work, that microcirculatory vessel density increases after prolonged exposure to hypoxic conditions. However, they also show that there is some persistence of this effect on partial descent. The authors pose a question as to whether this increased vessel density is due to neo-vascularisation or recruitment of existing capillaries secondary to an increase in haematocrit. This is generally a scientifically sound paper and a well written manuscript. I have several comments for the authors: Major Comments It strikes me that the authors are trying to achieve two things in this paper. Firstly, to confirm that there is microcirculatory adaptation to altitude and hypoxaemia and to provide more information regarding the mechanisms surrounding this and secondly to describe a method of rapidly assessing vessel density. Both subjects are not quite covered in enough detail to do either justice. With regard to the assessment method, this has been described previously in both buccal mucosa but also in other areas such as the nail bed. It has the advantage of being quick to perform but only provides information on one variable – number of capillary loops. The authors state and assume that this measure equates to Total Vessel Density (TVD) but it would be very useful to confirm this by actually measuring capillary TVD using sublingual IDF video capture and analysis. More importantly, the described method provides no measure of microcirculatory flow. This is crucial when discussing the impact of capillary haematocrit and viscosity on microcirculatory performance. Personally I think the paper would have been improved had the investigators used sublingual images and analyzed these to produce data on a fuller range of flow and density parameters. Although the authors give two possible mechanisms for the observed increase in capillary density, I would be interested to know if these changes could possibly be accounted for by an increase in systemic haemodynamic parameters, such as cardiac output. Unless there is a loss of haemodynamic coherence one would expect that micro would follow macro. Measurement of these values using a non invasive technique such as trans thoracic echocardiography would have been interesting and added value to the paper. The authors discuss that systemic haematocrit and haemoglobin do not necessarily equate with capillary haemoglobin. This is a crucial point and one often observes that “shocked” capillaries have a visibly lower number of erythrocytes even in the presence of a reasonably preserved systemic Hb level, especially post resuscitation. Being able to quantify this difference would allow us to answer crucial questions but is not possible with current analysis methods using this technology. I would be very interested to know how long this microcirculatory adaptation lasts. Did the authors consider repeating the measures after return to sea level and after a more prolonged period – e.g. one month? Minor Comments Southampton is spelt incorrectly in several places within the list of authors Citing a validation paper of the IDF camera (e.g. Hutchings S, Watts S, Kirkman E. The Cytocam video microscope. A new method for visualising the microcirculation using Incident Dark Field technology. Clin Hemorheol Microcirc. IOS Press; 2015 Oct 16;62(3):261–71) would be useful as the authors have stated that it is a new device. 