First, I apologise for the delay in writing this review Ive had other (also late!) reviews to conduct for other journals. This article appears to be technically correct (e.g., the calculations in the box), but I think it makes some incorrect claims, and some other claims are either vague or unsubstantiated. I provide details below. The authors write that Efron concludes that an uninformative prior does not have the desired neutral effects on the output of Bayes rule. Efron does not state this conclusion explicitly. My reading of Efron here is that he points out that the choice of the prior matters, and that using an uninformative prior can mislead. However, Efron does claim that Bayesian analyses based on uninformative priors are unreliable to the extent that they need to be checked with frequentist methods. Efrons article undermines this point with the twins example because it is unclear how a frequentist analysis could be used to calculate the probability that the twins were identical. In fact, it seems impossible for a frequentist analysis to do that. This suggests that it is sometimes impossible to check an analysis with frequentist methods to my mind this is the main problem with Efrons position. In my opinion, the authors critique of Efron misses the mark. The authors write We argue that this example is relatively useless in illustrating Bayesian data analysis . This seems an unfair statement. Efrons example is useful for showing how prior information can influence the result, and that it is important to get the prior . This was the point that Efron was illustrating, and it seems reasonable - I disagree that the example is relatively useless. The authors justify their claim that the example is relatively useless by writing One reason is that Efron considers the particular set of twin boys as the entire population. In this case, statistics is not needed because there is no random sample drawn from a larger population. This is a distraction from the main point. Efron was focused on this set of twin boys it was an entirely appropriate use of Bayesian methods. Statistics is not only limited to inference about large populations. The authors write theorem is a mathematical equation, not a statistical model describing how data may be produced. The model about how data are produced is summarised by the likelihood function in Bayes theorem. Therefore, it could be argued that Bayes theorem does include a model of how the data are produced. The authors write Efron uses this equation to show that the value on the left side of the equation changes when a term on the right side is changed, which is trivial and could be shown with any mathematical equation also in a non-Bayesian context. This seems to miss the point. Efron shows that the posterior is sensitive to the choice of the prior. This seems reasonable given the audience, even if it is already well known to those familiar with Bayesian methods. It seems unnecessary to criticise this aspect. The authors write s example can be rearranged so that it fits a more realistic situation in statistical data analysis. It is unclear in what sense the authors example is more realistic. Efrons twins example is drawn from a real-life query from friends - that seems to me. In contrast, the authors example compares a flat prior and a strongly informative prior. The informative prior is close to being specified as a constant the particular parameters for the prior were chosen arbitrarily because information about the degree of certitude was not available. Basing the analysis on arbitrary values does not give the impression of being more than Efrons example, and rarely would an informative prior be so precisely defined yet still be the subject of estimation with Bayesian methods. Further, defining informative priors with arbitrarily-chosen parameters does not seem to be best practice for Bayesian analysis. Overall, the authors example does not seem ideal to illustrate their point. The authors write that their approach would be fairer than the calculations given by Efron. The meaning of is unclear. Both the authors approach and that of Efron show that the choice of prior influences the results. Why is one fairer than another? 