Dear authors, Your manuscript addresses an important aspect of caring for high risk pregnancies, however some suggestions may be considered: Introduction should clarify the gap in literature about interventions on lifestyle and their effects on pregnancy outcome. In the other words, what is gap in knowledge about this topic that your study aimed to answer it? Please give explanations about this counselling approach (health literacy approach). Is your intervention a counselling or an education? What does the “parallel design” mean? Please explain it. The value of P for comparing before and after of each group is not mentioned in the tables. It is important that, " no significant differences were observed between the two groups in terms of demographic variables ", or life style, or health literacy, “ Therefore, the two groups were matched before the intervention in terms of lifestyle ” …… IS NOT “matching process”. Matching process is used in case-control design. “Random allocation” is utilized to control such confounding variables in randomized control trials. So it should be correct throughout the results and discussion; sentences such as: “The strength of the present study was the fact that the intervention and control groups matched in terms of …” The first sentence in conclusion part is not highlighted in results because the p value In tables, is for comparing two groups no before and after in one group. The first paragraph of discussion can be deleted. The title of tables is very long and contains unnecessary explanations. It is suggested to change the word “subjects” to “participants”. The last sentence of the background in abstract should be remove to methods. The content of counselling approach for intervention group, vs routine care and package for control group is not clear. “The control group received counselling on routine pregnancy care as per the safe national maternal protocol of Ministry of Health and Medical Education of Iran”. Is this protocol the same that was used as counselling for routine pregnancy care? Please describe it more clearly. What is the novelty of your study findings? 