This is a very well-written paper that clearly describes the fairly complex experimental design and rationale and nicely presents the primary data. The main question addressed is if immediate systemic application of recombinant PcTx1, a spider venom toxin, can reduce tissue damage and improve function in male SD rats given mild contusive spinal cord injuries. All of the primary functional, histological and transcriptomic data were collected and analyzed in a blinded fashion. However, the statistical analysis appears to be unusual for this kind of study and the overall outcome is rather unclear. The investigators chose to use a novel SIS (simplified injury severity) score at the time of injury and again at 24 hours post-injury. The SIS is based on a rather coarse and certainly non-linear 6-point scale (0-3 in 0.5 unit increments). Nonetheless, the 24h SIS score plays a very important role in the paper. Functional assays at 24h, whether they be visual scales like the BBB or video based kinematics, are poor predictors of terminal hindlimb function when moderate to severe injuries are used because most of the animals will exhibit flaccid paralysis at that early time point. In this paper they show that the SIS at 24 hours is predictive of terminal hindlimb function (BBB scores) following the mild injuries employed, even when only part of the scales range is used (1.5 – 2.75). The other functional assessments included the BBB Open Field Locomotor Score (without subscore), horizontal ladder and tapered beam tasks and swimming, the last three utilizing video to assist with counting footfalls/slips and to assess hindlimb alternation. Interestingly, the investigators found significant functional differences only using ANCOVA analysis of BBB scores at 6 weeks vs initial injury severity score (SIS). No differences were seen in ladder, tapered beam or swimming, although the pattern of data points is somewhat suggestive that PcTx1 treatment reduced errors on the horizontal ladder. This paper also presents a substantial amount of data on gene expression at 24h post-injury using the Illumina platform and marker extravasation at various time points. These data provide a lot of food for thought but unfortunately do not really allow any strong conclusions to be drawn except that the blood spinal cord barrier remains leaky to small markers for up to 4 days after a mild contusive spinal cord injury thus providing a window of pharmacological opportunity wherein small molecules, like PcTx1, may enter the spinal cord from the bloodstream to confer protection. Major Concerns: The primary finding of the paper, that PcTx1 improves locomotor function of adult SD rats after thoracic SCI is only partly supported by the data. Traditionally, the BBB and other functional (and hopefully objective) assessments would be done weekly and changes over time would be observed. Group differences in BBB or BBB subscore along with objective kinematic or gait analysis would be used to conclude that a tissue-sparing strategy resulted in functional improvements or it did not. In this case the authors chose to assess the locomotor function at 6 weeks only and to reduce the effect of inter-animal variability using the 24h SIS scores and ANCOVA analysis. Using ANCOVA is unusual in this kind of experiment, but can be done only if the correlation coefficients of the two groups are equal, and this information has not been provided. For each of the regression lines a 95% confidence interval should be shown. For the BBB vs SIS data, it should also be explained what test was done to determine that the PcTx1-treated group had a “significantly higher elevation compared to the saline-treated group”. It is assumed that this is part of the ANCOVA analysis, but more details should be given. Similarly, for the dlWB vs SIS data, it should be explained what test was done to determine significance and 95% confidence intervals should be shown. The outcomes of these tests should also be provided for the other data sets shown in Figures 2 and 6, even if there are no significant differences. Minor Concerns: In the subsection “Functional Testing” the authors suggest that hindlimb alternation during swimming is indicative of supra-spinal connections without giving a reference. Subsequently, in the results section they indicate that there were no differences in swimming between the groups. This is meaningful only if the analysis was extended beyond the presence or absence of alternation and I believe more information is necessary or perhaps the reference to swimming should be removed as it adds nothing to the paper. We have used swimming extensively in my laboratory and have seen animals with a wide range of spared white matter accomplish hindlimb alternation. If notes were taken during the BBB scoring it should be possible to determine the BBB subscores that have proven to be very helpful in other studies using mild thoracic injuries. In the section “Blood-spinal cord barrier integrity” the authors reference using an overdose of inhaled anesthetic. It is recommended in the AVMA Guidelines on Euthanasia that a secondary method of ensuring death is employed and this should be described here. In this same section it is obvious that an additional cohort (or cohorts) of animals were employed to develop the time course/size of tracer relationship and these animals should be included at the beginning of the methods section to indicate the real total of animals used in the studies. For histological analysis the investigators chose to assess dorsolateral funiculus, ventral white matter and corticospinal tracts using a myelin stain. While this is acceptable, the rationale for these choices includes “white matter tracts involved in hind limb motor function”. While this statement is true, it is not complete. There are many examples in the literature demonstrating that the ventrolateral and lateral white matter are at the top of the hierarchy for hindlimb function. Thus, including the lateral and ventrolateral white matter in the analysis would be ideal, but at the very least the statement should be amended to indicate that the areas chosen are among those involved in hindlimb function after SCI. With this caveat, the investigators have done an excellent job of analyzing spared white matter and pointing out the poor appearance of ventral tracts. Comments in the discussion point to the non-linearity of the BBB scale and suggest that a mean difference of 1 or 2 points may be small (on the scale) but functionally significant. This may be true for certain ranges of the BBB (8-10 or 11-13), but is arguable not true for the range used here (16-18). A more sensitive gait assessment where order and timing of paw placement would have been helpful in this situation. Figures: The images in Figure 1 have quite different backgrounds which may add unwarranted contrast to the injured image (right). This should be corrected. The indicator of significant differences in Figures 2 and 5 should be made more obvious. Increasing the size and blackness of the font and line/arrows should suffice. The size of the font used in the legends is inconsistent and in some cases is too small (Figure 6). The image in Figure 11b is too small and the text is way too small. 