This is a very well-written and interesting study protocol focusing on the effectiveness of home-based rehabilitation following total hip arthroplasty. Specific strengths of the protocol are the very detailed description of the study design and the content of the home-based exercise intervention in particular, the objectively quantified exercise dose and the combination of quantitative and qualitative methods which will be used to evaluate the home-based exercise intervention. However, a few items were encountered while reading the manuscript which the authors might reflect upon: The different aspects of the home-based exercise intervention are described in great detail (Table 2), which enhances the understanding and replicability of the intervention. However, it is not entirely clear why these specific four strengthening exercises (hip abduction, flexion, extension with elastic band resistance and sit-to-stand) and the intervention duration of 7 weeks were chosen. Please elaborate on the rationale for these choices regarding the design on the home-based exercise intervention (e.g. based on guidelines or recommendations?). On page 4, it is stated that participants will be advised to comply with the recommendations on physical activity from the Danish Health and Medicines Authority. Could you give a (short) description of these recommendations? On page 4, it is described that all participants will receive a thorough instruction in the strengthening exercises at the baseline measurement and that face-to-face meetings among physiotherapists will be held to reinforce similar treatment administration. Will patients also be monitored during the intervention period to check whether they are still performing the strengthening exercises according to the received instructions? Outcome measures (1): 24-hour physical activity level will only be determined at the start of the intervention. Why will this outcome measure not be repeated at the end of the intervention as well? Outcome measures (2): in contrast to hip abductor and hip flexor muscle strength, hip extensor muscle strength is not specified as secondary outcome measure. However, hip extensor muscle strength is one of the four strengthening exercises of the interventions. Could you clarify why this will not be evaluated as secondary outcome? Self-efficacy (1): to measure self-efficacy, the general self-efficacy scale will be used. However, it has been stated that the concept of self-efficacy is most useful when it is measured for a particular behavior in a specific context (e.g. postoperative rehabilitation following total hip arthroplasty) (Bandura, 1997) 1 . Could you elaborate on the decision to include a general self-efficacy scale instead of a more context-specific self-efficacy scale (e.g. The Self-Efficacy For Rehabilitation Outcome Scale, Waldrop et al. 2001) 2 ? Self-efficacy (2): Table 1 shows that self-efficacy will be measured both prior to surgery (admission) and 3 weeks after surgery (baseline measurement). Literature indicates that short-term postoperative self-efficacy seems to be a better predictor of long-term outcome following total joint arthroplasty than preoperative self-efficacy (Scheek et al . 2007) 3 . You seem to incorporate this finding by only including the postoperative self-efficacy as possible confounding variable in the statistical analyses. What will be the additional value of including the preoperative self-efficacy measurement in your study design? 