 Introduction The Introduction section is much improved and the focus on child outcomes is made clear. The rationale for the study is also well done in this section of the manuscript. However, the authors review literature on parent training with this age group, but, linking to the pilot study Methods and/or Results sections, no data is presented to evaluate fidelity of treatment by the parents, a critical issue in evaluating child outcomes in a parent training based study. This is a structural flaw in the pilot study as it is presented for publication at present that precludes valid evaluation of this pilot study of child outcome variables. As such, it seem premature to publish this early result of child behaviors with no in-depth treatment of the parent training variable. Methods/Results The four participants in the intervention study and the one control child are well described on relevant variables for inclusion and exclusion in the study. However, there is no description at all for the typical developmental comparison cohort. The only mentions I find are as follows: on page 7, paragraph 2 in the Results section under MBL (……” typical control children without CG (12,15,16,18, and 20 months, listed in Morris, 2010”) under SSL, paragraph 1, “For ages 15 and 19 months, the only ages for which data were available for the treatment cohort and the typical children without CG.” As a result, we have no comparable inclusionary and exclusionary information presented for the typically developing child group that is one of the three main comparison groups in the authors’ descriptive results graphs. As noted previously, there are no descriptions of data on parent training fidelity, which could potentially have a great impact on the child outcomes the authors report here. An unknown amount of the variability in results of this pilot study could be related to parent input issues related to the fidelity of delivery of intervention dimensions. Again, the pilot results on child outcome variables seems premature without this important dimension of the overall study of intervention delivered via parent interactions with the child. The Limitations and future directions gives a good road map for issues I would like to see available to a reader in this pilot study. Overall, this is a needed type of research in our field and has a fairly well developed basis in studies of parent training regimes that are available for comparison. However, no review of that dimension is present in this study. In addition, no description of the typically developing cohort used for comparison is available. I have given more detail in the original review related to these issues. I feel like the pilot study report would be better served as a picture of the larger study if all the dimensions of importance are equally well represented for the reader. Status: Major issues are missing to give the reader a full picture of the study contemplated and to fully evaluate the data results presented in this pilot study.