This article by Toker et al. reports a retrospective biostatistical analysis of the data reported in 70 RNA expression studies to identify the possible misannotation of samples used in these studies. Their analysis is based on the expression of gender-specific genes (XIST for females; KDM5D and RPS4Y1 for males). Their analysis revealed apparent mismatches between the expression data and the annotated gender for 83 of 4160 samples (2%), encompassing 32 of the 70 studies (46%). This percentage is consistent with a those of a previous analysis in cancer datasets (PUBMED: 26608184). While these figures are already alarming, the actual number of mismatches is likely to be higher, because the gender-analysis can only identify discrepancies based on a gender-mismatch and will not detect mislabelling of samples of the same gender and case-control samples. For most cases, the reason for the mismatches is not clear, but comparison of identical sample-data presented in different publications revealed that sample mix-ups are likely to be involved. The mislabelling of samples in transcriptomics studies have an immediate impact on the involved studies, which often only have a modest sample size. In addition, also follow-up studies based on the results reported in such studies can suffer from it. Therefore, the use of controls to check the identity of samples is warranted. The gender-test presented in this work is a simple test that should become routine in expression studies, another option is to use nucleic acid-based bar codes that can be added to the sample early in the processing. Some minor comments: On page 4, second-last line: here 29/31 of the affected studies is mentioned. Shouldn't that be 32? I hope I missed it, but certainly in a report as this one, the figures should be absolutely correct. Some typo's in the legend: Figure 2, Stady 5 is Study 5; Supplementary Fig S1: Based on the sex-genes expression, dataset GSE22491 contains at two 2 mislabelled samples. References 1. Lohr M, Hellwig B, Edlund K, Mattsson JS, et al.: Identification of sample annotation errors in gene expression datasets. Arch Toxicol . 2015; 89 (12): 2265-72 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT van Bokhoven H. Reviewer Report For: Whose sample is it anyway? Widespread misannotation of samples in transcriptomics studies [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2103 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10200.r16144 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2103/v1#referee-response-16144 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 29 Mar 2017 Lilah Toker , University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 29 Mar 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewer for his comment. It was indeed a typo and it was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. We thank the ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for his comment. It was indeed a typo and it was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. We thank the reviewer for his comment. The typo in the legend was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. Regarding dataset GSE22491, when a single sample is mislabelled, it would affect the number of samples from both genders – for example if a sample annotated as a female is biologically male, the result would be that the number of biological female would be the number of annotated females - one, while the number of biological males would be the number of annotated males + one. We thank the reviewer for his comment. It was indeed a typo and it was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. We thank the reviewer for his comment. The typo in the legend was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. Regarding dataset GSE22491, when a single sample is mislabelled, it would affect the number of samples from both genders – for example if a sample annotated as a female is biologically male, the result would be that the number of biological female would be the number of annotated females - one, while the number of biological males would be the number of annotated males + one. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 29 Mar 2017 Lilah Toker , University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 29 Mar 2017 Author Response We thank the reviewer for his comment. It was indeed a typo and it was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. We thank the ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for his comment. It was indeed a typo and it was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. We thank the reviewer for his comment. The typo in the legend was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. Regarding dataset GSE22491, when a single sample is mislabelled, it would affect the number of samples from both genders – for example if a sample annotated as a female is biologically male, the result would be that the number of biological female would be the number of annotated females - one, while the number of biological males would be the number of annotated males + one. We thank the reviewer for his comment. It was indeed a typo and it was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. We thank the reviewer for his comment. The typo in the legend was corrected in version 2 of the manuscript. Regarding dataset GSE22491, when a single sample is mislabelled, it would affect the number of samples from both genders – for example if a sample annotated as a female is biologically male, the result would be that the number of biological female would be the number of annotated females - one, while the number of biological males would be the number of annotated males + one. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Freedman LP. Reviewer Report For: Whose sample is it anyway? Widespread misannotation of samples in transcriptomics studies [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2103 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10200.r15949 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2103/v1#referee-response-15949 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 13 Sep 2016 Leonard P. Freedman , Global Biological Standards Institute, Washington, DC, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10200.r15949 This is an excellent paper highlighting the importance of sample annotation as a critical contributor to reproducible research. Using transcriptomics of sex-specific gene expression levels as an example, the authors do a careful analysis to illustrate the issue of mislabeling. ... Continue reading READ ALL 