I thank the author for this insightful opinion article documenting her experience of navigating the open access publishing landscape with NGOs. There are some really novel insights in here which to my knowledge have not yet been communicated in a peer-reviewed forum, so thanks to the author for taking the time to do so. The anecdotes contained within this article are extremely important to be conveyed and to be more widely known amongst the Global North research, publishing and policy communities who may appear otherwise sometimes oblivious to many of the problems discussed here. Here are some small constructive comments: "However, publishers incorrectly viewed the UK base of a corresponding author as an indication of the ability to pay the full open access APC, adding a value added tax of 20% to the original cost." With respect, I think this conflates two slightly different issues. If an APC is being paid from the UK, then legally-speaking Value Added Tax (which is currently set at 20%) has to be paid, and it not the publisher that is mandating this, but instead the UK government. If the APC could be paid by another author not based in the UK, not from a UK bank account, then that author/institution/NGO might not need to pay UK VAT. The second problem intermingled is the publisher assuming that because a corresponding author affiliation appears to be from the UK, that they somehow automatically have the money to pay a full APC. Both are legitimate problems. But I just think they need to be teased apart slightly to make it clear that there are two problems there not just one. In defence of the publishers, sometimes APCs are known to be invoiced on the basis of who is indicated as the corresponding author of the paper. For some publishers it doesn't matter if the majority of the authors are from LMICs, all that matters is who is the corresponding author. Nilam is right to highlight this as a seemingly unjust problem. To be clear I am not defending publisher policies here (far from it) but if the policy is transparent as least NGOs and authors might know about it before submitting. For example BMC (owned by Springer Nature) write: "BMC offers APC waivers to papers whose corresponding authors are based in countries classified by the World Bank as low-income economies as of July 2019." https://www.biomedcentral.com/getpublished/article-processing-charges/open-access-waiver-fund Perhaps the author might consider referring to 'research outputs' rather 'research evidence'? From my point of view in the funder landscape I feel that outputs is the more common term but perhaps there is a specific reason for using 'evidence' rather than outputs? Something like the production of scientific software might not be considered 'research evidence' but would clearly be a 'research output'. In the discussion of those in the Global South needing to use Sci-Hub, I would perhaps cite voices from the Global South to support this point such as Bendez-Quispe et al. 2016 "Sci-Hub and medical practice: an ethical dilemma in Peru" 1 . The well-documented above average intensity of usage of Sci-Hub in Iran might also be worth citing on this point with respect to the Global South (Greshake, 2016 "Correlating the Sci-Hub data with World Bank Indicators and Identifying Academic Use" 2 ). In general, whilst it is important that Nilam's personal experience makes up the majority of this opinion article, it would be good to include many further references on what others have said about similar problems with the open access landscape such as: Peterson, A.; Emmett, A.; Greenberg, M.L. Open access and the author-pays problem: Assuring access for readers and authors in a global community of scholars. J. Librariansh. Sch. Commun. 2013 3 Lawson (2015) "Fee Waivers for Open Access Journals" https://doi.org/10.3390/publications3030155 4 Bonaccorso, E., Bozhankova, R., Cadena, C., Čapsk, V., Czerniewicz, L., Emmett, A., Oludayo, F., Glukhova, N., et al. 2014. Bottlenecks in the Open-Access System: Voices from Around the Globe. 5 Jrgen Burchardt (2014) Researchers Outside APC-Financed Open Access: Implications for Scholars Without a Paying Institution https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244014551714 6 Finally, as Nilam has been working with Health NGOs, I do think a citation to statements in this paper is warranted... "In fact, hybrid OA journals, which have the most expensive APCs, were the most underrepresented in LMICs. It remains unclear why APCs for hybrid journals remain higher than gold APCs given the fact that these journals also ask for subscription fees. Since the APCs are mainly paid to the ten same publishers creating an oligopoly, there is little incentive to keep APCs low. This oligopoly may also run much deeper than costs; it creates an important inequity in publication. Although publishers may wish to include researchers from LMICs through waivers, they have not really included LMICs in the publication industry itself. " -- Smith et al (2017) "Knowledge sharing in global health research – the impact, uptake and cost of open access to scholarly literature" Health Research Policy and Systems 7 