The abstract results section could be clearer, in particular the sentence starting ‘ Even remembering’. I think it would be useful in the introduction to give the geographical context for your work, and figures about the size of the environmental volunteering sector in that country. I assumed UK, and it seems like the bulk of responses were from the UK, but I note that your survey was completed by people in 11 countries. It also needs some definition of environmental volunteering I think. I guess this includes things like practical conservation, environmental CS surveys, but what about someone delivering leaflets promoting Friends of the Earth activities for example? This example highlights why definition is important. And in your results, you talk about Biodiversity monitoring volunteers – is this your definition of environmental volunteers? Some justification of why PERMA was used as opposed to other multidimensional well-being measures would be useful. Some more info on why managers’ perceptions of their volunteers’ motivations is important is needed, I think this is missing. ‘Worldwide responses’ – how do you know that any difference in responses is due to the factors you are interested in, not due to the fact that they are in a different part of the world? Some justification for including these (relatively small number of responses) would be useful. The results text is very dense, and it is hard for those not very familiar with factor analysis (like me!) to understand what the key parts of the text are. I guess it’s the bottom of page 9 is it? I think some explanatory text at the beginning of results about what factor analysis is would be helpful. The 'External factors and volunteer well-being' section is clearer as you’ve said what the results are and then gone into the detail of how you came to that result, and means that people who are not au fait with statistics (as I guess will be many of your readers) can skip over it. Discussion – how did your volunteers and non volunteers compare to others using your well-being index? Or compared to other well-being indices? This would help to give your results more context. Some of your sentences are a little long which makes them a bit hard to read, for example, the one starting However, this positive…on page 19. Should your figures be in the discussion section, or would they be better placed in the results? It breaks the text up a bit too much I feel.