What does the antibody manufacturer say? We all know what scientists say about commercial antibodies, but what does the antibody manufacturer say? In this opinion article the CEO of an antibody manufacturing company points out that many problems may be solved if the customers pay attention to common pitfalls in antibody applications and understand how the reagents are manufactured and marketed. The author begins with a general description of terms such as specificity, cross-reactivity, and background and continues with explaining differences between monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. Even experienced users need to be reminded that polyclonal antibodies do not necessarily detect multiple epitopes, that there is extensive lot to lot variation in performance and that purified IgG is not the same as affinity purified antibody. Those who use assays such as western blotting, immuno-histochemistry and ELISA on a regular basis will most likely recognize the pitfalls that are described. Experts can surely produce far longer and more detailed lists with suggestions for troubleshooting. However, for the much larger number who use these assays only now and then, the article should serve as a useful reference. The author flags that he is CEO of a manufacturer that specializes in the production of anti-peptide polyclonal antibodies. Thus, one may expect that he has strong opinions about the relative performance of antibodies raised against peptides or full length proteins, respectively. One may of course agree that an antibody that has been raised and affinity purified against a peptide can be said to recognize a single epitope. Yet, there is no reference to any studies where anti-peptide antibodies have been shown to be generally more specific than reagents raised against full length proteins. For the more experienced antibody users, the open and honest description of the antibody industry is likely to be the most interesting part of the article. Most users are probably not aware of the extensive practice of buying and selling products that occurs between suppliers. It is also very useful to be warned that the validation data in product specification sheets are often not generated by the seller of the reagent and that they may not be representative of the particular lot that is sold at any given time point. The fact that the same reagent is sold under different names and with different validation data is another very interesting detail. This is an opinion article, and should be read as such. This reviewer tends to disagree at several points. Yet, hearing what the antibody manufacturer says is well invested time. I would recommend the following changes: The matrix effect: page 5 right, first paragraph. The sentence "When the matrix is diluted with a factor two and the measured antigen does not read a reduction by a factor two along the way...... " may be misinterpreted. If the sample is diluted and the signal remains the same, the antigen may be saturating. I was not aware that antibodies may perform better in ELISA for low abundance serum proteins if they are adsorbed against human serum proteins first. I do not understand why this would be the case, and a reference would be good. I would remove the discussion about therapeutic antibodies on page 6. Therapeutic antibodies undergo testing far beyond that of antibodies used for research purposes. I would not call extra bands in a WB "background" but rather cross-reactivity. 