This paper presents an analysis of F1000Prime recommended publications in combination with Mendeley users statistics. I think that in general terms the methodology is fine and the results are correct, having some descriptive interest. However, I have the following major remarks and also a number of other minor comments. Major remarks: The paper lacks in my view a solid justification of its research questions. The two research questions proposed in the paper (are F1000Prime papers only read by people from biomedicine or are people from other disciplines also interested?, and Which disciplines read F1000Prime papers frequently or seldom together?) are too general and basically the results reported suggest: 1. Yes, F1000 papers are mostly saved by biomedical Mendeley users and 2. yes, there are reasonable connections between disciplines (e.g. Biology and Medicine) while some others are not easy to understand. After all, the reader is left with the questions "why is the analysis of the disciplines of the Mendeley users of F1000Prime recommended publications relevant? What have I learnt from this paper?". For example, do Mendeley users link F1000 papers thematically in a special manner? Or, does the use of Mendeley readerships have a different characteristic in the thematic analysis of disciplines that wouldnt be possible with other methods (e.g. bibliographic coupling)? Is the Mendeley users disciplinary classification valid/useful for the classification of F1000Prime papers? There are some methodological omissions. For example, what is the exact number of publications finally considered in the study? In the figshare dataset there are 147177 rows of data. If the article reports n=114582 papers (does this mean that Mendeley has a coverage of 78% of F1000Prime recommended papers?) Please, clarify this point. Also what are the publication years of the publications finally considered? In the paper there is only a brief comment to the fact that Mendeley may not necessary measure actual "reads" (at the end of the introductory section). In fact there seems to be some confusion in what are "readers" and readerships (or simply the act of adding papers by Mendeley users). For example, in the results section it is stated that "we found 6,263,913 Mendeley readers". This is a bit misleading. These 6 millions are events of the act of adding documents in their Mendeley libraries by an undetermined number of different Mendeley users. I recommend to revise the consistency of the vocabulary in this regard. This clarification is important for example to understand how the matrix of Mendeley readerships is constructed (see minor comment below). The results presented are not very surprising. Basically around 86% of F1000Prime publications are saved by Biomedical users, which is what would be expected considering the nature of F1000Prime. So what is the added value of this analysis? Are F1000 recommended publications more interdisciplinary than other biomedical publications as captured by Mendeley users? The network (Figure 1) and analysis are also not very informative. What does it mean that Bio, Med, Eng, etc. belong to the same community? I dont see the reason why Psy is not in the same community as Med. The authors say that biology is related to chemistry while not to environmental sciences. I dont see the logic of this result. Why chemistry is more linked to biology that Environmental sciences? (which intuitively I would expect to be related to biology). What does it mean the central location of engineering, material sciences and computer and information science by having connections to many other disciplines? Does it mean that users from these areas are more multidisciplinary than other Mendeley users? I think a much stronger case needs to be made to explain the value of these analyses and results. Other minor comments include: The Kreiman Maunsell reference is missing. PubMedIDs and DOIs are used as the linking element. Although using PubMedIDs and DOIs is straightforward (and they have been used in other studies), problems with the metadata and ids recorded in Mendeley have been reported and need to be acknowledged ( http://www.asis.org/SIG/SIGMET/data/uploads/sigmet2014/zahedi.pdf ). It is stated that "a paper which is read by Mendeley users of different disciplines ... constitutes a connection between these disciplines". So, would this be a kind of "Mendeley readerships coupling"? For example Kraker et al . (2015) analyzed networks and they briefly discussed the idea of bibliographic coupling and co-citation. In this paper a different approach as compared to Kraker and colleagues seems to be taken, i.e. here the focus seems to be more on readerships coupling. I think a discussion of the analytical approach would be necessary here. When explaining the construction of the matrix for the network analysis, how are the links exactly determined? In other words, from a matrix point of view, if the disciplines are the columns and the rows, what is exactly counted in the cells? To clarify this point would be very helpful to the reader and also for other potential scholars interested in the methodology. My main conclusion is that this paper is correct in technical terms and it has some descriptive merit, but it lacks a relevant focal point. Suggestions to improve the paper could include to turn it into a more methodological paper, so readers can learn in a step-wise mode how to produce and analyze Mendeley readerships coupling networks. Other more ambitious approaches would be to study for example if the disciplinary connections crowdsourced by Mendeley users match (or not) other classifications (e.g. Medline, WoS subject categories, etc.), thus the value of Mendeley and F1000Prime as tools to map disciplinary fields could be highlighted. I hope my comments are useful to the authors of the paper.