This paper outlines an important, rampant issue in public health research publication bias. The author doesnt present any scientific data so I cant judge scientific quality. I appreciate the authors historical presentation of the issue and the data provided from ClinicalTrials.gov. I have a few suggestions that might make the article even more worthwhile. The article spends much of the paper focusing on clinical trials. Nearly an entire page is devoted to ClinicalTrials.gov. While this is interesting, it is not the only cause of publication bias. I would cut down some of this information and provide information on additional causes. For example, what about biases from journals? When was the last time a top-tier journal published a non-significant result, even if the result was important. I believe this is where much of the bias lies. Perhaps breaking this into 2 sections would help one section on bias as a result of the author failing to report results properly (or at all) and one section on bias as a result of journals failing to publish articles that arent highly statistically significant. The latter is a difficulty that many authors face that needs more attention if policies will ever change, and may even be part of the reason authors fail to properly report results. I would also encourage the author to expand on publication bias in observational studies. This is mentioned briefly on page 3 and may be an even bigger problem than publication bias in clinical trials. The author doesnt mention that some journals (CEBP being one) have specific calls for null results to reduce publication bias. Additional calls and journal policies on actively publishing null results may be one solution to this problem. The author also doesnt mention the impact that publication bias has on future research. When a study isnt published, no one knows. No one knows what the results were or whether the trial worked. So the study may be funded again in a different form and repeated only to find the same null result. This is a complete waste of time and our tax payer dollars, particularly for government-funded studies. The NIH should really crack down on the lack of publications from grants and prohibit funding of future similar studies if the initial results are never published. 