The present study is appropriate as a data note, and may provide a useful shortcut for future studies on terpenoid biosynthesis in cannabis. The author identifies transcripts putatively involved in terpenoid biosynthesis, including processes of both primary and specialized metabolism. The rationale is well explained, and the methods are technically sound. Major changes: More information is required in the Materials and Methods for the study to be replicable. Two versions of the canSat3 transcriptome are available, and the authors should specify whether they used the full or representative transcript set. The authors must also provide the NCBI accession numbers for the GEO dataset they used. There is an unsupported statement in the results section, which reads: “Similar to other biological compounds, their abundance directly correlates with the expression levels of the enzymes involved in their metabolism.” In a complex system, this is not obvious and requires textual support. Minor changes: The Introduction generally provides a good rationale for the study. However, the definitions provided for ‘terpene’ and ‘terpenoid’ in the second sentence of the second paragraph do not reflect the definitions used in reference 12, nor are they the traditional definitions for those terms. References 24 and 25 address enzymes characterized in other organisms, and so do not support the statement regarding their biosynthetic activities in cannabis. That information is provided in reference 23. The final statement of the second introductory paragraph is unsupported and requires citation. Figure 2 caption states that the transcripts were taken from the reference genome, but the Materials and Methods indicate that a transcriptome was used. Figure 3 caption insufficiently explains x axis labels. The caption should define ‘PK’ and ‘Finola’. Otherwise, this figure shows an interesting and valuable result. Readers should note the specific products of terpene synthases and other enzymes in specialized metabolism are currently difficult to predict using in silico methods. A recent paper (Booth et al., 2017 1 ) includes biochemical and phylogenetic analysis of some of the candidate genes highlighted here, and may be of interest to readers. 