The authors describe the BiocWorkflowTools Bioconductor package, a tool to write and maintain a single entry point that can be converted and submitted as a Bioconductor workflow or as a F1000Research Bioconductor gateway article. My understanding is that the authors effectively want to address or facilitate three challenges with their packages: 1) The technical challenge that is allowing authors to use R markdown to generate outputs that will fit the requirements set by Bioconductor (for the submission of an R package containing a workflow vignette) and F1000Research (submission of a LaTeX document). This purely technical goal is elegantly achieved thanks to the BiocWorkflowTools package that leverages existing infrastructure and templates. 2) The authors also seem to favour submission of workflows to both Bioconductor and F1000Research, so that authors and readers will benefit from the advantages of both platforms, i.e. reproducibility from the former, and visibility and citable reference from the latter. However, here I feel that the solution falls short because these two options rely on two pipelines in BiocWorkflowTools, namely BiocWorkflowTools::createBiocWorkflow for Bioconductor workflows and rmarkdown::draft(template = "f1000_article") for an F1000Research article. The problem I see is that this will essentially define from the beginning what distribution platform future workflow authors will favour, instead of being able to write the workflow with BiocWorkflowTools and then submit to both locations. Technically, the article corresponds to the vignette of the R package. The package also provides additional meta-data in the DESCRIPTION file. It would be easy for a user that has experience in package development to convert one in the other, but I am wondering if a single pipeline wouldn't be a better option for authors that don't have any experience in package development. Specifically, I am thinking of either converting the Rmd article to a package (by populating the DESCRIPTION file using meta-data in the article's header), or choosing the package as single pipeline and uploading the vignette directory using BiocWorkflowTools::uploadToOverleaf . 3) The last issue, arguably the most difficult one to address, is to bridge the gap between the fully reproducible scientific document and the manual publishing pipeline. Ironically, the greatest breakthrough here seems to be that "Editorial comments and instructions will be included in the R Markdown document " using Overleaf as an intermediate broker . To avoid breaking the reproducible pipeline, authors are advised to use the Overleaf project (which is also a git repository) as a remote and pull changes into their local repository. Establishing a pipeline that maintains reproducibility and traceability beyond submission is very important. While it isn't strictly part of the tool, it would be valuable to describe how to set this up in a bit more details, or provide links to useful resources. Another dimension that could be documented is when workflow authors already work collaboratively on the article/package using a git repository via, for example, GitHub. They would have their local/remote repositories for the duration of the writing and, when ready to submit, upload to an Overleaf project (that itself is a remote git repository). Editorial comments are then returned in a new Overleaf project/github remote repository. Authors would then add one (or two) additional remote repositories pointing to the Overleaf project(s). Finally, it would be useful to also describe how a revision of the article would be updated and resubmitted via Overleaf. My suggestions for this manuscript are two-fold: 1. Comment on the usefulness of having two independent workflow pipelines (one through a package for Bioconductor, and another one through an Rmd file for F1000Research) or a single one. I fear that having two will limit the submission to both locations. 2. Even though it isn't directly related to the BiocWorkflowTools package, it would be very useful for the authors to provide more details and/or links to relevant resources to further integrate the local workflow repository to the remote Overleaf project to maintain reproducibility beyond the first submission. Minor comments: - The first letter of 'Orchestrating' is missing in the title of Ref. 1. - The link to Bioconductor in the first paragraph is mis-formatted. - The code in the code chunk describing how to upload the article to Overleaf is repeated. 