 Title and content: A paper of interest to the community exploring why we share our teaching practices with others? This is very topical in light of changes to the HE sector and the decline in support and project funding for education research. So I am hoping the paper will enlighten me on not just the but how do we bother to become excellent practitioners and share to support our subject communities? Methodology: A small number of interviews were conducted reflecting a range of institutions. It wasnt clear how the author got from interview transcripts to aligning to Trigwells model of scholarship of teaching? How was the data analysed and was any particular software used? The findings are discussed in accordance with the interview lines of enquiry. Discussions and conclusions: I find it a little strange that none of the interviewees or reflections by the author mention open education as a motivational factor and enabler for sharing teaching practices? The advent of open licenses and easy technologies has made it simple for people to share news and practices to global audiences and reach out to learners beyond their institution. I think the global open education movement is a significant driver and possibly worth a sentence in the discussion that it was not mentioned by any of the interviewees. Under motivations also Im surprised that seeking professional fellowships (e.g. HEA / SEDA UKPSF or HEA National Teaching Fellowships) are not mentioned as a driver, as teaching excellence is a National key performance indicator and many institutions have set staff targets for these. The need for teaching staff in all disciplines to reflect and enhance their practice has grown rapidly, so again, it might be worth a comment noting that this was not mentioned during the interviews. A final area Im surprised was not raised is the lack of funding for education projects in the UK. Changes in direction for organizations including the HEA and Jisc have had a major impact on financial support for teaching innovation and the ability to build communities around projects as used to take place. Overall, a well conducted study addressing a very topical question that will be of interest to the biology and bioscience community.