The authors Bhuva et al. presented the application of a previously published gene set scoring tool, singscore, to discriminate AML subsets based on gene expression signatures, using signatures derived from known specific gene mutations or fusions. The authors show that singscore can effectively separate AML samples based on such gene signatures. Given the ability of the software to discriminate samples within heterogenous diseases, such as leukemias, its application to other cancers and diseases with similar levels of heterogeneity can be beneficial to improve patients' clinical outcomes. The rationale behind the application of the software and its step-wise descriptions are well explained. So is the interpretation of results. I appreciate the authors' efforts to explain all the steps and suggest alternatives, giving the software description the feel of a tutorial. I have some small comments on some points I'd like to see addressed: Title. As far as I have understood, singscore doesn't actually predict mutations. Rather, it uses gene signatures associated to certain mutations in order to identify sub-groups within a population. As it is, the title is misleading. Similar rationale about the title of section "Predicting mutations using the Verhaak signature", page 16. In the section "Filter out genes with low counts", page 7, the authors describe explicitly how to handle duplicated entries caused by the GDCprepare function. Here I would reorganise and shorten the paragraph by first mentioning the issue introduced by the function, then saying edgeR is applied to the data filtered of duplicate entries. Figure 3. The legend below each graph is identical. I suggest to only use one legend for all three plots. The authors comment on several instances about the similarities between scores for signatures of two subgroups of AML samples, NPM1c and KMT2A-/MLL-fusion, and that's due to the presence of Hox genes. I suggest to have the lists of the two gene signatures directly in the article for immediate lookup. This is not essential, as the authors already refer to the articles they take the data from, but I think it will help readers. Minor comments: Typo in the caption of figure 1 (approcimately instead of approximately). Typo in figure 2 caption. I suppose "scores are plot against..." should read "scores are plotted against...". 