 I believe that this report should be Approved with Reservations. One concern is the assumption that this patient did not have relatively high levels of spinal blockade. The authors describe a 'T4 level block' 3 minutes after initiating spinal anesthesia. Since the block would be expected to continue to spread upwardly after the initial 3 minutes, it is very likely that this patient had higher levels of sensory blockade after the 3 minute mark. Since the effective dose is significantly decreased in pregnancy, the authors should remind the reader that 12 mg of bupivacaine was a relatively large dose for a short (5 ft 5 inch tall) woman undergoing cesarean section. A second concern is the speculation the discussion based primarily on physiologic studies that either had no sympathetic blockade or in one case unilateral sympathetic blockade. A spinal block that caused a T4 sensory block in 3 minutes would be expected to cause a near if not total sympathetic block in the ensuing minutes so physiologic studies following complete sympathetic blockade would likely be applicable to this case. Despite these reservations, the authors do highlight a very important point. Physicians and nurses are often falsely reassured by a patient who is still awake or even talking despite severe decreases in heart rate or blood pressure. In such cases, there appears to be enough vasoconstriction from endogenous adrenaline or vasopressin to shunt blood flow to the heart and brain despite the low cardiac output. This case demonstrates that in the supine position, the cardiac output needed to maintain consciousness is far less than what is needed to provide adequate perfusion to all of the other key organs. Treating hemodynamically unstable patients aggressively with fluids, atropine and vasopressors while they still conscious improves the likelihood that resuscitation medications will enter the central circulation more expeditiously and should result in better outcomes as observed in this case. 