Defects in axonal transport are associated with a number of neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinsons disease (PD). Retrograde transport in neurons is powered by the cytoplasmic dynein complex, a macromolecular structure that contains different heavy, intermediate and light dynein polypeptides. Here, Liu et al report changes in protein levels in a widely used mouse model of PD over-expressing mutant (A53T) a-synuclein. Interestingly, the authors found an increase in a-synuclein levels via immunoblot and immunohistochemistry in the substantia nigra (SN) of symptomatic a-synuclein mutant transgenic mice. Conversely, they found a decrease in from the striatum of the same mice. The authors used an interesting modification of the open field paradigm to test the mice for motor abnormalities. By comparing the levels of in the striatum with the degree of motor deficits in the tested mice, the authors found a correlation between striatum dynein levels and motor performance. Comments : Although the authors refer to levels throughout the manuscript, the antibodies they are using for immunoblot are against the cytoplasmic intermediate chain (DIC1?). This needs to be clarified in the materials and also throughout the manuscript. The same applies to the immunohistochemistry. The authors report using two different anti- antibodies, but one is against DIC (as above) and the other one against a cytoplasmic dynein light chain (DYNLT3). The authors should clarify which antibody they are using in Figure 3, as well as clarify throughout the text which cytoplasmic dynein subunits they are referring to. The authors state at the end of the discussion that although dynein defects occur in the SN, TH expressing neurons of the SN are spared from pathology . However, they do not show TH co-staining together with a-synuclein in Figure 3. If this statement is referring to previously published data, it should be referenced. If it is referring to their data, it should also appear in Figure 3. In Figure 4, it appears that non-transgenic mice have also been used, together with symptomatic A53T transgenics, for the correlation between the levels and the motor abnormalities. I would like to see the same correlation using transgenic mice only, which have obvious motor abnormalities. 