The idea behind the work as presented is valid, and there is a clear need for more field surveys on many reefs, not only in Indonesia, but around the world, and thus this work is a welcome addition to the literature. However, I feel there are many shortcomings that need to be addressed before any indexing. I have refrained from detailed comments on grammar etc. as any revision will likely greatly change this paper. For now, I list only my major concerns: The MM need many more details. If I read this correctly, only one transect per site? But yet you discuss SD (although it is not shown in the relevant Figure 2 or Table 1). The field methodologies need many more details in order to be reproducible, including a list of "lifeforem" categories - this is listed later in Results incorrectly, images if available, etc. How did you choose sites? Also, why did you merge living coral to include both hard (Scleractinian?) and soft (octocorals?)? I would also like to see a definition of what you clearly mean by hard and soft corals, as there are numerous definitions. Define each category taxonomically. Finally, did you take images while doing LIT? Your work is a single point in time, but after you compare with past work. Detailed information on how comparisons were made is needed. I am not sure I agree with the lumping of categories' health statuses simply by live coral cover. Could you instead look at bleaching, or ratio of live to recently dead, etc.? Some locations are inherently low in cover, and others high. Low cover does not always mean low health. There seems to be some mixing of the different sections. In the Results and Discussion, the first part detailing categories is actually MM. Also, the statement of 89 spp. of hard coral (hermatypic? Scleractinian?) being listed within your results is a bit misleading, even with the reference, as you did not identify your animals to species-level. The sentence is not even needed here. Are there any environmental (water-quality) data available for this region? This could help your Discussion. I also do not completely agree with the coral mortality without more details. By Figure 3 inset and your text, it seems many corals may have died recently, yet you state the conditions of the reef are stable compared to 2010, 2012 and 2014. Are these also just 25% bins? In my opinion, Figure 3 is not needed. The authors mention many possible causes of degradation in the Discussion, but provide almost no data or observations, except for some anecdotal ones. This section reads less like a paper and more like a textbook. As a scientific work, it would be good to more clearly link these causes with your field observations, which you do to some degree with the fishing practices. Observing 2 COTS during surveys does not really indicate much, unfortunately. Finally, the English, while very easy to read and generally well-done, could do with a simple brush-up here and there. I imagine a colleague could do this easily for you. Sorry, one more small-ish comment. In Figure 2 - "abiotic" includes rubble - isn't this also biotic if coral rubble? I am a bit confused if some sites do not add up to 100%, as by including all these categories, shouldn't each site = 100%? The authors are free to contact me with any questions or comments; I am more than happy to help if I can. 