The manuscript by Tang et al. was focused on the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms of an important phenomenon, anastasis, through time-course expression profiling. Anastasis was recently discovered and has not been fully studied yet. It's molecular basis remains to be uncovered. The study provided useful information to better understand this underexplored process. Overall, the experiment was well designed. The time course experiment included six time points, untreated samples as the control, toxin-induced apoptosis, and four time points after removal of toxin. Three biological replicates were performed at each time point. Figure 1 illustrated the experimental design very well. The biological interpretation of microarray results is reasonable. The reviewer has no major concerns. However, several minor changes are needed, especially for the presentation of figures, which could be improved. First, no multiple test correction was mentioned in the microarray analysis section. It was described that the p-value less than 0.05 was used to declare statistical significance. The reviewer would suggest the authors confirm that. A false discovery rate (FDR) method is needed for multiple test correction. Second, the PCA result from Figure 2A showed that three biological replicates were closely clustered, which showed a good repeatability. However, the goal of PCA is not just check the repeatability of three replicates of each group (time point). PCA can be also used to examine the relationship among groups. My recommendation is that the authors provide more description for the PCA result. In addition, in Figure 2A, the percentage of PC2 explaining total variation was masked. But based on the value of PC3, it should be greater than 5.89%. Given the high value of PC1, I would suggest plotting a two dimension PCA plot to display the result or re-plotting this three-dimension plot. Third, it would be useful to list the number of significant differential expression for each comparison. And I guess the clustering result in Figure 3 presented all significant genes. Figure 4 showed some interesting result about gene interactions. I did not see enough description about this figure in the main text. Editorial comments: In the Abstract, “whole genome” can be replaced by “genome-wide”.