This article is sound as it is. In fact, it is more than sound; it is an excellent presentation of an important contemporary issue in higher education. The questions raised below are not of what needs to be addressed in the article but that need to be addressed following it. The questions surrounding Reappointment Promotion Tenure (RPT) in contemporary colleges and universities need to be addressed with care, compassion and comprehensively. This article is a good start toward focusing ongoing discussion in a way that can be useful across the range of Canadian and American institutions of higher education. There are a number of areas I would like to see more exploration of, but I think they are going to require further research and consideration; there is certainly not room for them here though the article does point to them. One of the areas is the relative importance of teaching, scholarship and service in different institutional situations. Where there is great reliance on adjuncts for teaching, for example, service takes on an importance it may not have when there is adequate tenured and tenure-track faculty to cover departmental needs. Where students are reaching college with inadequate preparation, also, an emphasis on teaching may be more important than in a situation of selective admissions. These points are recognized in the article, certainly, but a great deal more consideration is warranted. Also touched on but needing a great deal more exploration (though, again, in future articles) is what amounts to the lumping of various scholarship needs and standards in various fields. This is mentioned (the emphasis on books in certain fields, for example) but the history behind the movement toward a focus on peer review and other commonalities between fields is worthy of careful research. My suspicion is that it goes back at least to reaction to C. P. Snow’s The Two Cultures in the late 1950s when the humanities and social sciences began to model themselves after scientific disciplines. What should “scholarship” mean in different fields? The article does present the idea, originating elsewhere, that a fourth category be added to scholarship, teaching and service, one that gives credit for scholarly and popularization work that is not peer reviewed but that benefits the community. This is another area that could lead to fruitful discussion, though the upshot might not be a fourth area but instead a broadening of what is considered scholarship in institutional settings. It could also be fruitful, in terms of re-evaluating RPT, to see new and more specific historical studies presenting snapshots of RPT as it was practiced 25, 50, 75 and 100 years ago. American universities built their reputations over the last century; it would be interesting to see how tenure and promotion processes worked for past generations. Finally, I would like to see the essence of this article distilled into another piece that succinctly outlines the questions and possibilities raised in a way that can be used in departments with little interest in the specifics of the excellent research presented here but who need to be reassessing RPT procedures in light of changed teaching, scholarship and service environments. Obviously, the subject of this article is worthy of a book. I hope, therefore, that the authors continue down the paths they explore here. Without national consideration of contemporary concerns relating to RPT in both Canada and the United States, problems such as predatory publishing, among others, will not only continue but will expand. 