This paper presents an approach for the improvement of automatic detection of dicentrics and particularly the removal of some kinds of False Positives (FP). Indeed, the dicentric is the standard bio-marker in biological dosimetry. However the manual scoring of dicentric chromosome is time consuming and the improvement of the result time is necessary in biological dosimetry. For dose assessment in case of triage of radiation exposed population, automatization of dicentric detection is very useful. In order to increase the dicentric detection, the authors concentrate the study on the removal of FPs as well as on the selection of quality images. Apparently the main FPs in the metaphases of the 2 study laboratories are Sister Chromatid Separation (SCS) (84% of the FPs). This study shows that the authors reach to eliminate them with filters (about 55% of SCS removed). This is great and encouraging to remove other kind of FPs. The study showed also the importance of selecting metaphases before the analysis and the detection. The quality of images and chromosomes is an important factor. The dose assessment becomes better when the images were selected than when they are not selected. The data show a difference in dose assessment between the 2 labs. The filters gave better results for CNL images than for HC images particularly on low doses. The dose assessment may be a problem of sampling or of the number of analyzed metaphases. this could be improved. However the selection of good quality metaphases is also time-consuming. There is a good comparison between manual and automatic triage of metaphases for the 2 labs highlighted by the statistical tests. On the other hand, the number of metaphases analyzed remains important for the dose estimation as well as the detection of true dicentrics. Perhaps it should be interesting to compare this algorithm to the Metafer DCScore algorithm proposed by Metasystems in terms of detected dicentric rate and dose assessment. Overall the authors are to be congratulated on a well-presented study of their work. Page 7 last paragraph : prominent sister CHROMOSOME separation. Is it right or is it a mistake instead of CHROMATID? 