This paper addresses the important topic of student perceptions of rural practice, via a questionnaire for students of one Caribbean medical school. The authors might be more explicit and specific in defining how they are using the term IMGs from Caribbean medical schools in this paper since the study participants include students of US, Canadian, and other nationalities, as well as both and MD students. The studys respondents are diverse, as shown in Table 1 including and MD students, different nationalities, etc. It would be informative to see more comparison in the analysis, to see if demographic characteristics are related to perspectives on rural practice. There is some mention of this in the Discussion but it is not detailed in the Results. It would be helpful if the authors would clarify whether all enrolled premedical and MD students were invited to participate in this study. The description in the Methods suggests that this is the case but it is not explicitly stated how many students were enrolled at the school at the time of the study, including a breakdown by premedical and MD. This information would be helpful, as well as confirmation that the study respondents are representative of the overall student population. Also, some more background on the school, including how it is comparable to and how it differs from other Caribbean schools would be helpful for judging the generalizability of the study results. Some of this information is in the Discussion. The authors note that Many respondents did not answer the question regarding suggestions for re-focusing medical education for preparing doctors for rural practice. It would be helpful to know exactly how many respondents there were to this question, particularly given its importance. It is understandable that the authors would want to be cautious about stating results from this question given the limited response. However, while stating this caution, the authors may want to offer in the Discussion possible actions that Caribbean medical schools might take to begin to address rural practice needs, including direction for future research. The low question response rate (despite the high questionnaire response rate) might also be noted as a study limitation.