Its a well conceived study exploring key metrics of research work published by Indian Physiotherapists. I think citation-metrics data provided by the authors can be very useful to understand and analyse the publication trend and research productivity of Indian Physiotherapists. Key issues: I find the title and the aim is somewhat misleading. The study provided an in-depth citation analysis of all research work published by Indian PTs in the WoS indexed journals not just 'highly cited' articles. An additional/sub analysis highlighted top 20 publications. The authors's attempt at reviewing High-quality research indexed in WoS is justifiable. I found two major issues related to how high quality is defined in this study and how it is interpreted: High-quality journal or publication is not clearly defined. I suggest a brief discussion on using citation metrics and indexing databases as a criteria for research quality to be included in Introduction Inclusion of journals in Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI) need clarification. Journals indexed in ESCI is monitored for quality by WoS but unlike the journals indexed in SCIE it doesn't have impact factor. My suggestion is authors may consider adding a brief note on discussing potential confounding effect of adding multiple journal indexes of SCI. I also think the acronyms (SCI-EXPANDED, SSCI, AHCI, CPCI-S, CPCI-SSH, ESCI, CCR-EXPANDED, IC) need to be expanded and a brief description of each would help reader to understand similarities and differences among them. How physiotherapy was defined? It is possible that Indian Physiotherapists might have been a part of research teams of Non-Physiotherapy related research. Did the authors screened only articles focused on areas within the scope of physiotherapy. Among Top 10 cited article list, I find the scope of area of articles articles ranked 1, 5, 6 and 10 are not within Physiotherapy. I checked the article authored by Trivedi et al (rank 10). The article was published by authors affiliated with department of radiology. I cannot confirm whether the author Richa Trivedi is a physiotherapist based on the affiliation details given in the article. How did the authors of this article confirmed? I suggest authors to verify other articles too. Discussion can be more structured with less data and more interpretation of data. 