This manuscript describes a fetus with clinical features suggestive of Cornelia de Lange Syndrome (CdLS). My comments are as follows: Data from mutational testing on known CdLS genes ( NIPBL, SMC1A, SMC3, RAD21 , and HDAC8 ) would be important for this case. The article published by Clark et al. (2012) which was also cited by the authors, recommends molecular analysis of CdLS genes to prenatal diagnosis of CdLS. The authors should compare prenatal findings in the current case with what described in the article by Clark et al. ( 2012) . Without molecular testing data, I would like to see a table demonstrating the current case presenting prenatal clinical features consistent with what has been documented in the literature by studying a larger cohort of probands. In the discussion, in the beginning of first paragraph, the authors claim that CdLS is diagnosed primarily by morphological characteristic and cited a paper published in 1933. At present, the diagnosis criteria of CdLS cannot be the same as what was 90 years ago, particularly with the identification of specific gene mutations in CdLS probands. Please re-phrase this part, and cite updated references. In the end of the discussion, what does it mean “genetic tests are not reliable”? As a matter of fact, molecular testing has become a widely accepted concept and a popular diagnostic approach for individuals with congenital anormalies. Minor things: OMIM numbers of CdLS and disease genes should be given. Please double check the spelling and eliminate typographic errors, also, some terms are not accurately used. Below is listed some examples of those errors: Abstract – “kariotype” - “karyotype” Introduction – “psychical” - I’d like to use “neuropsychiatric” 2 nd paragraph in case report – “dimorphism” - “dysmorphism” 2 nd paragraph in discussion – “cohesion” - “cohesin” 2 nd paragraph in discussion – please italicize the gene names “NIPBL” and “HDAC8” 2 nd paragraph in discussion – “familiarity” ? What does it mean? Why not change to “ no family history” 