Here, the authors describe an assay that quantifies miRNA-guided cleavage products. Then, by comparing to the mRNA levels of the corresponding non-cleaved target transcripts, a ratio is obtained that estimates the proportion of transcript present in the cell has been cleaved by the miRNA. They tested this in an overexpression line, a miRNA-deficient mutant, and in an example where an endogenous miRNA is expressed in a tissue specific manner. The discussion nicely points out the advantages and limitations of the approach. Although the assay represents a relatively straight forward modification of a widely used protocol, modifying it into a quantitative-PCR protocol may enable a number of interesting questions to be addressed. For example, it may give an insight into the efficiency of miRNA-mediated regulation, where it could determine if all equally predicted targets are cleaved as efficiently as one another. Minor comments The authors state in the abstract that qACE can determine the extent of miRNA regulation for a specific target gene. This method only measures transcript cleavage, but nothing can be inferred about any translational inhibition mechanism, which there is now very strong evidence that many (possibly most) miRNA-target interactions have a translational repression component to it. Maybe this should be mentioned somewhere in the manuscript as it has basically been ignored, and so this method can only measure the efficiency of cleavage but not the extent of miRNA regulation. Also in abstract the term differential cleavage by miR164 makes it sound like the miRNA is cleaving differently in the different tissues, this may turn out to be the case in some examples, but here isnt more likely due to the fact that miR164 is differentially expressed, having a higher abundance in root tissues compared to nodules? I would be careful with the use of that term. In the discussion; we demonstrate that both NAC1 and CUC2 had similar levels of increase in hen1-1 , but different levels of reduction in miR164-directed cleavage. Maybe the authors should be more careful with their claims, as qPCR measurements can vary, and the number of biological reps were not indicated, they did mention replicate assays but this seems something different, so how repeatable was this difference? 