In this report Tronchoni and colleagues have analysed changes in mRNA expression in S. cerevisiae x S. kudriavzevii hybrids growing at different temperatures and compared them to strains from single species. They have also investigated the allelic expression of a series of relevant genes in the hybrids. Finally a growth inhibition experiment in presented in order to link their transcriptomic data to a temperature dependent modulation of the translation capacity of the hybrids. I list below a series of questions I have about this manuscript. I couldn’t find any information about the division rate of the different cells at the time of collection. This is a crucial information as ribosome numbers change with division rate. I believe that including this information is important to support the authors’ interpretation of their data. In general could the authors elaborate on what their model exactly is regarding the role of translational efficiency in their system please? It is not clear to me whether the authors have checked the specificity of their species-specific qPCR primers on Sc or Sk strains. I may have missed it but otherwise it is an essential control that should be included. I struggle with interpreting data from table 3. Is the efficiency of each primer pair comparable? Or is this taken case of by their design? Is the ratio Sc/Sk reflecting actual relative mRNA expression levels only or is it also reflecting differences in primer efficiencies? This should be clarified as a significant contribution of the latter to the data would impact on the authors’ interpretation of their results. Figure 1 shows a representative experiment, it would be more rigorous to show a quantification of the size of the inhibition zone in each repeats so the reader can get an idea of how quantitative and reproducible this observation is. I am not familiar with this assay, but wouldn't it be possible to perform a dose response of the inhibition? Or maybe rather use a conventional drop test? This would greatly improve the data and help the reader understanding better this phenomenon. 