Summary: This ms aimed to determine the best starter of biofloc in a red tilapia Oreochromis niloticus culture system. Three biofloc starters (molasses, tapioca and sucrose) and control were tested in triplicate over a period of 40 days. Nitrate, nitrite and ammonia were monitored during the study. Based on the findings, molasses is considered to be the best starter for biofloc production among the starters that were tested. Comments: The work presented the findings in a straightforward manner. However, the ms can be further improved following these suggestions: Change the title to: Effect of different biofloc starters on ammonia, nitrate, and nitrite concentrations in the culture of tilapia Oreochromis niloticus . The authors mentioned red tilapia in the Abstract but only tilapia in other portions of the text. Please be consistent. In the Introduction, the authors wrote: "Molasses, tapioca, and wheat flours are common starters in biofloc culture". Please indicate to which species were these starters used. The authors wrote: "Presently, no information is available on the best starter for biofloc in the cultured system of Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus ". It is suggested that the authors conduct a thorough literature search, as there have been studies done on biofloc starters in tilapia. Please rectify this statement. In the methods, please indicate how the biofloc was maintained in the study. The study only made mentioned the starter. In the 40 days, was there no addition of the starters to maintain the biofloc? Please indicate water exchange rates? There was no water change in the control in 40 days, and the fish were quite big during stocking (approximately 3 g). With no water exchange in 40 days in the control and with the addition of feed, there is definitely a deterioration of water quality and lower fish survival. In the actual culture of tilapia, water exchange is done. For biofloc system, water exchange is minimal hence the results are compared in terms of water quality as well as savings in the cost of electricity or volume of water discharge. Was feeding the same for the biofloc treatments and control? Please explain. The authors should explain the water exchange and feeding management between the control and biofloc treatments and how these are controlled/managed relative to the study objectives. Perform a correlation analysis on the water quality parameter over time. Related the values of the slope and intercept on the effects of water quality for each treatment. ANOVA should also be done on the water quality per sampling point so that the readers will know when the differences became significant. Why did the authors conclude that molasses is the best starter? Based on the graph, all three starters had better water quality than the control. In addition, the differences in the water quality values (ammonia, nitrite, nitrate) among the biofloc treatments were not significantly different. It is suggested that authors perform additional statistical test to show that molasses is significantly better than the other 2 biofloc starters. The role of the probiotics in the study should be discussed. The authors should provide in the methods the initial counts of the probiotics that were applied initially. I hope that these suggestions will be considered by the authors when they revise the manuscript. 