I really enjoyed reading this article. It explores whether the tammar wallaby is a suitable model organism to study mechanisms of spinal cord regeration after injury at the mid-thoracic region in pouch young animals. Comparable to previous studies by the Saunders group (e.g. with Mondoelphis domestica ), this study establishes a critical "permissive" period for wallabies after birth, after which growth of neurites across the lesion and behavioral recovery of hopping and swimming can not occur any longer. Importantly - the tammar wallaby might be a more representative bipedal species to humans because it probably relies less on sensory feedback (as opposed to quadrupeds) for the recovery of locomotor functions after injury. Therefore, therapeutic discoveries in this species will be more relevant for human spinal cord injuries. The article is very thoughtfully written, data are well presented and carefully discussed. The study is scientifically sound. I have no doubt that it will find the interest of a wide audience. A few (very minor) comments, suggestions. The perceived shortcomings of the wallaby model at this time (problematic survival of P40/P60 operated animals), could be overcome by appropriate husbandry refinements and changes in post-operative care. In my opinion the wallaby is an excellent test animal and this article lays important ground work for future studies. PY (pouch young) should be defined at first mention in the main text. It would be helpful to approximately indicate how far rostral and caudal from the lesion site sections B,C, and D were taken in Figure 3. Considering the question of suitability of the wallaby for bipedal recovery after SCI and the role of sensory feedback in the process: what is known about the anatomy and connectivity of spinal cord sensory connections and how wallabies compare e.g. to dorsal spinal cord sensory tracts in M. domestica or human? Is the absence of Oregon Green labeling rostral to the lesion (after the recovery period) indicative of the absence of sensory feedback connections (compared to quadrupeds)? 