The authors have presented an account of their study on characterising human myofibroblasts from IBD patients, both Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis. The authors are to be commended for obtaining human tissue from a good number of patients - the effort involved is significant. However, I do have some important comments on the manuscript, which I feel should be addressed so that the reader is better informed. Comments: There is insufficient detail on and phenotyping of the resection specimens. CD is a very diverse disease. There are a number of factors, e.g. site, active/inactive disease, presence of stricture etc., that can have a major impact on gene expression. The reader is unable to assess pathological features with respect to the expression data. Figure 1 is incomplete. Why only a control patient for panel A? Why CD90 for panel B and only one specimen from a UC patient? Why are so few cells in A showing a-SMA expression? Negative controls? Magnification? Use of overly? Make sure the legends fully explain the figure - see also comments below. I am unclear as to why the numbers of data points varies so often within (mucosa versus IMF) and between graphs (e.g., CCN1 Versus FN1) within a given Figure? The numbers appear very different to those indicated in the text. There could be a number of reasons why this has happened. The authors should explain this anomaly clearly along with any potential influence loss of data points has had on their analyses. There are insufficient mRNA expression data points to do a sub-group (UC and CD) analysis. Given the nature and diversity of these diseases I would have focused on one or the other, especially given that fibrosis and subsequent stricture formation predominately affect CD patients. From the clinical table, it appears that seven Crohn’s patients had a structuring phenotype, how do markers of fibrosis in IMFs isolated from these patients compare with inflammatory IMFs for UC/CD controls? The authors could also compare their mRNA data to what is already published in the literature. mRNA levels of some inflammatory cytokines are enriched in IMFs over mucosa, how do the authors explain this, given IMFs are not the primary cytokine producing cells? Data and text to justify the use of GADPH as the normaliser would be useful. Figures 7 and 8 are very difficult to follow because of a lack of information in the text and the legend. For example, the title for Figure 7 states, “gene expression intestinal myobroblasts (IMF) obtained from control and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients” yet there is only a single bar for each gene? This should be explained in the legend and then numbers used should be given in the legend. The use of black plus, I think, two shades of grey which do not match the key complicate matter further. Once again it would be more clinically impactful to have compared response between different diseases and phenotypes. Currently numbers are too small to do this. In Figure 8 have the cultures been pooled? Why are the numbers different between panels A/B and C? What were the criteria for selecting these particular cultures over others? There is no clear explanation as to how the data presented in Figures 7 and 8 relate to the mRNA data given in earlier Figures. There is a lack of explanation as to why select the various cytokine combinations for stimulation experiments. Overall there is an absence of protein validation. 