This paper describes a workflow for processing, filtering and analysis of Illumina Infinium methylation array data. It showcases a reproducible pipeline integrating a suite of tools from Bioconductor for multi-faceted genomic insights. While none of the tools individually are novel, their integration into a sensible, reproducible pipeline is. I am recommending this manuscript for indexationfor 3 main reasons: The tools contained therein and their application are in line with, or near, best practice. The workflow itself contains all the major steps that this reviewer usually uses for their methylation array processing. An integrated workflow such as this will be valuable for novice and intermediate bioinformaticians who are tasked with processing methylation data. The number of caveats and sanity checks needed for appropriate biological interpretation is not trivial, and this workflow does a satisfactory job of outlining them. The reproducible nature of this manuscript is a strength; it is very "coalface bioinformatics". Many published methods have very poor or buggy implementations and no effort is made to contextualise them in a given pipeline. Publication may set a precedent for other authors to give worked examples and context, which in this reviewer's opinion accelerates the path to best practice. Minor amendments needed: I could not find any public links to the data files imported into this workflow. These ought to be provided. a) The mathematical definition of β is given as β = M/(M +U + α) . While I realise α is a fudge factor for offset purposes this is not clear to the lay reader and needs to be made so. b) Why are there no offsets for M or U in the calculation of M values, especially since there is one for the calculation of β ? On (admittedly) rare occasions M or U will be exactly zero and hence offsets need to be put in both the numerator and denominator of the ratio to be log-transformed, else a non-number will result. A justification for the preference of M values over β values for use in the MDS plots is needed, especially since the statement is made that "Beta values are generally preferable ... for graphical presentation". This reviewer's experience is that β is much more common for use in PCA/MDS, and is certainly the standard for other methylation platforms e.g. bisulfite sequencing data. Legends are needed for density plots in Figs. 3 and 8. I appreciate minfi annoyingly puts the default legend in the top right, obscuring the hypermethylated mode, but a custom call to legend() ought to fix this. Appropriate Y-axis labels are needed for Figs. 9 and 14. 