The spatial proteomics field has seen increased popularity over the past few years through development of experimental, statistical, and computational methodologies. In this Method Article, Crook OM and colleagues present a bioinformatics workflow for the analysis of spatial proteomics data using a set of Bayesian analysis tools. This work is a useful guide for biologists that wish to properly apply and diagnose a Markov-chain Monte-Carlo (MCMC) inference procedure using the pRoloc package. The article is timely and relevant given the increasing number of biologists acquiring programming skills yet lacking extensive expertise in this area of statistics and modeling. In particular, the authors did a good job explaining basic terminology and rationale for the diagnostics necessary during MCMC inference. The methodology is clearly explained, all the code is provided, and the packages and datasets are available through Bioconductor, making them easily accessible and reproducible. However, I believe this article lacks in background information and details for those readers that are not experts in the spatial proteomics field. In addition, the value of applying the more resource-intensive MCMC method compared to the expectation-maximisation (EM) algorithm is not clear from the data presented. I recommend this article for indexing given that the following issues are resolved. Major comments Currently, there is no direct comparison of the results provided by the EM and MCMC algorithms. Given that MCMC is computationally intensive and requires additional diagnostics, the reader needs to be convinced that there is a tangible benefit from using the MCMC approach. A discussion of scenarios in which the EM algorithm would be preferable over MCMC would be useful for the reader. For example, can MCMC fail to converge? If so, what kind of interpretation can be obtained by looking at the point-estimates from the EM algorithm instead? Additional background information and references would be useful, as this article seems to assume that the reader is familiar with spatial proteomics data sets. For example, the author can explain the organelle MS-proteomics data sets, the use of organelle markers to train the model, and the prediction of unannotated proteins from the model fitted on the organelle markers. In addition, I would suggest pointing the reader to the review by Gatto L et al. 2014 1 in MCP, or another similar review as a primer. Page 20 – The authors claim that lower Shannon entropy is an indication of low uncertainty in localization and therefore can aid in identifying multi-localized proteins. This claim should be backed up by some examples or evidence from the literature that agree with the data presented. Minor comments Figure 1 – Additional details should be provided in the figure legend. Is this plot only showing organelle markers? A short description of the outlier component and how the analyst can interpret this component would be particularly helpful. Page 15 – It is not clear why the Gelman diagnostic performed on mean allocation of all chains helps discriminate chains 1, 2, and 4. The upper C.I. is already near to 1 (1.01) for this example. I observed several small writing mistakes; the article should be proof-read before publication. Some examples are indicated below. Page 15 – sentence ending with “… Gelman diagnostics between chains 4, 5, 6”. However, the code shows that the diagnostic was performed on chains 3, 5, 6. Page 21 – “From the plot below is is…” should read “it is”. 