This article by Dowling et al . demonstrates the importance of choosing the right reference genes (RG) when performing RT-qPCR experiments. They have compared the effect of using a single RG versus three RGs on the gene expression values of the interrogated genes on a given experiment. They present data that confirms that using a single RG usually gives greater changes in gene expression than when using a panel of three RGs. As a consequence, many published studies that present RT-qPCR results based on a single RG may have over-estimated gene expression changes and generated misleading results. As a conclusion of their work, they present a very useful checklist for any researchers that want to perform gene expression analysis using RT-qPCR, which includes all the steps to follow when designing RT-qPCR experiments. When reviewing this work, there are several minor points that have raised my concern, although they don’t affect the main conclusions of the work. These minor points are: It is not clear to me whether the three Cq values given on the data sets correspond to three independent experiments (biological replicates) or they are three values obtained from the same sample (experimental replicates). In Figure 2C the authors have presented their data in a way that I consider it magnifies their results and it can be slightly misleading. The authors have plotted the fold changes in PKC genes using what is known as “Fold Regulation”, in which the values of Fold Change below 1 are plotted as negative values. When the data is plotted in this way, the area of the graph between +1 and -1 it simply doesn’t exist; the values will always “jump” from +1 to -1. If the data presented in Figure 2C was plotted without making this conversion to Fold Regulation we will be able to appreciate more clearly that the expression of several PKC genes does not change much – the values will probably oscillate between 1.2 and 0.8. My recommendation for the authors is to change the way the present their data in this case where the Fold Regulation data oscillates between positive and negatives values, but they are all very close to 1 (that is, there is only a limited variation in expression relative to the control sample of 2D cultures). I suggest two alternatives: - Remove the gap between +1 and -1 in your Y axis. - Present your data as Fold Change, without converting it to Fold Regulation. As a final comment, also please put your gene names in a way that they don’t overlap with the bars, as it is very difficult to read them. This also applies to Figure 3C. Regarding the assessment of RNA purity and integrity, the authors have used spectrophotometry and running an agarose gel, respectively. This is correct, but if we want to compare RNA integrity across samples it would be better to perform this type of analysis using a Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies). With this assay we will be able to obtain a more quantitative measurement of RNA integrity in the form of the RIN value. My suggestion to the authors is, if possible, to complement the data they already have with a Bioanalyzer analysis and the corresponding RIN data. In this way they will confirm that the simpler strategy that they propose is a valid one. 