This study presents SNP discovery and variation of moose in North America, which are very valuable data. First, moose are an understudied species and their genetics can tell us a lot about the phylogeography of species after the LGM. As the authors state, moose in North America have generally low neutral nuclear diversity, and are less diverse than their European counterparts (information from Siberia, if it exists, has not been published in English). They are also less diverse than many northern species and many species of cervids, such as caribou, white-tailed deer, and elk. Hypotheses have been proposed for these observations and have been tested with mtDNA, but only recently have nuclear markers been used to study phylogeography in European moose. No such tests have been conducted in North America. This study provides new tools to spur moose research, although I agree with Reviewer 2 that microsatellites and mtDNA still have their uses. The inclusion of 4 individuals in this study is good, as is the broad geographic range of the samples across North America. The methods are appropriate, although as the first reviewer points out, RADSeq could have been used in SNP discovery and has some advantages over the methods used, but I believe that this report on moose is secondary to the authors’ overall goals and we are fortunate that Kalbfleish et al. decided to pursue this and share their findings. The comparison to reference genomes, although from bovids not very closely related to moose, yielded some advantages, including identifying SNPs in important functional genes, such as the PRNP locus. Nonetheless, a white-tailed deer genome was made public in summer 2017 and although these authors may not be willing to start over by comparison of their data to a very similar genome (same subfamily and same number of chromosomes) the prospect exists and should be pursued. I can see the point of Reviewer 2 concerning Fig. 4 and assumed synteny but I believe I got the intended message from the figure as is. But I think mentioning somewhere that North American moose have 34 pairs of autosomes when discussing the success of mapping SNPs to the reference genomes would be appropriate. I find the last sentence interesting in that the authors believe the SNP variants they found existed prior to moose entering North America. Considering that event likely happened within the last 15,000 years that is a very reasonable statement, and may cause some to think that SNPs may contain little information about geographic variation in moose and all that goes with it. Given the morphological and behavioral differences between, say, Alaskan moose and those in the eastern continent, however, it is obvious that moose have evolved rapidly in that time, despite limited genetic diversity due to Pleistocene bottlenecks and founder effects. How that translates to current SNP diversity and what the latter may be able to tell us about moose are exciting questions to be asked, for which this manuscript sets the stage. Minor comments: 2 nd paragraph of Introduction: should be “among individuals” not “between individuals.” Third paragraph of Introduction: should be “a SNP-based approach” not “an SNP-based approach.” Last paragraph of Introduction, last sentence: should it be “has been made freely available” rather than “was made freely available?” Last paragraph of WGS Production …, last words of 2 nd -to-last sentence: Should be “previously.” not “in previously.” Discussion, last sentence: should this be “SNPs” instead of SNP?” 