 Second review (12/07/20) of “Patient treatment pathways of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis cases in coastal South India: Road to a drug resistant tuberculosis center” paper for F1000Research The authors have answered the vast majority of the comments raised in the earlier versions. However, the are a number of comments which could be addressed if possible prior to full approval. My major and minor comments follow, namely: Major comments: In the flowchart and text, the authors talk about “Presumptive MDR-TB patients”. However, the patients enrolled in the study are diagnosed and registered MDR-TB cases. These are not the same thing. How is “Presumptive MDR-TB patients” defined and is the same definition being used in both the private and public sector facilities in the study? The above has been addressed by the authors in the revised version. However the second query of “whether similar levels of identification of “Presumptive MDR-TB patients” was being done in the different sector facilities?”, has not been answered. If it is possible, this could be added. Time to diagnosis will be determined to a degree by what diagnostic capacity is available in the respective health facility. Hence if a facility has the capacity for rapid molecular diagnosis of TB and rifampicin resistance (RR-TB) e.g. if it has a GeneXpert machine on site, then diagnosis of RR-TB can be done within the day. If not and the patient or sample has to be sent to another facility which then does only culture and phenotypic drug susceptibility testing (DST) and not rapid molecular DST, there will be an inherent time difference between the patients seen at the initial health facility. So did all the health facilities involved in the study have the same access to diagnostic capacity? Although the authors mention that the diagnostic capacity is not the same across the health facilities and sectors, no details are included. If it is possible to add details, then this should be done. Even if the diagnostic capacity available to all health facilities involved in the study, where any RR-/MDR-TB cases diagnosed but not registered? If yes, were the proportions the same in the different sectors analysed? Crucial segments of the author’s response to the above query should be added to the actual manuscript. Were the 15 DR-TB patients who did not consent to participate in the study similar to the 40 patients who did participate in the study? Was there any difference in these 15 patients between those who initially visited a public sector facility versus those who visited a private facility initially? Crucial segments of the author’s response to the above query should be added to the actual manuscript. A number of data should be available on these 15 patients (e.g. sex, age, etc) from the records and could be included in the manuscript. Minor comments: Introduction, 1 st paragraph, 2 nd sentence: Is the use of “.. incidence rate”… correct here? Methods, study setting, 1 st paragraph, 2 nd sentence: “.. six lakhs..” should be amended to “600,000” for non-Indian readers understanding. Methods, data collection, 3 rd sentence, reference 10: Is this not the same reference as used for number 4? Results, details of the first visit, and shift from one HCF to another HCF, 2 nd paragraph, 1 st sentence: Is it more correct to say that the patients were “referred” to the DDR-TBC rather than “transferred’ as they had not yet started on treatment? Results, Time delay in treatment pathway of MDR patients: I do not see mention of total delays here? Results, Time delay in treatment pathway of MDR patients, 5 th paragraph: Better to use “longer” rather than “more”. Results, Table 1: Why are a number of the lines repeated (i.e. Treatment not affordable/Not affordable; Referred; Not satisfied) as there is no explanation to why they appear twice? Discussion, 4 th paragraph, 2 nd sentence: Is the median delay not “25 days”? Discussion, 4 th paragraph, 6 th sentence: Is it meant to be stated as references “18, 12, 32”. Conclusions, 2 nd sentence: Not sure that “diagnostic rate” is the correct term to be used here as it has not been calculated in the results section? Limitations, 1 st sentence: Amend to “ … the findings can only be generalized..” 