Overall I think a survey/position paper like the one presented here is relevant and helpful. The survey explores the application of technology for generating and manipulating virtual environments to the study of animal behaviour and cognition. Some important potential issues and benefits the practice raises (or might raise) have been explored in this initial version of the article. I still have some major reservations about the article as it stands and would recommend a few changes prior to its finalisation. The article is very broad and, in many places highly speculative. The many claims phrased "should", "may", "potential" and "expected" (e.g. see para 1 of Introduction) would be more convincing to me if supported with strong arguments based on published or presented evidence. Since the paper is so broad in its scope this might require a very long paper indeed, perhaps an entire book! As an alternative, I would suggest narrowing the scope considerably (e.g. to consider experiments with one species or other experimental category such as Primates, insects, or something still more specific such as Zebrafish or Hymenoptera, or anything for which there is already a lot of evidence gathered in the literature) and focusing on how the arguments presented here might apply, and be supported, in that case. A second reason for suggesting a reduction in scope relates to the differences in perceptual and cognitive systems between animals. For instance avian colour vision and hymenopteran colour vision are very different, as are the learning mechanisms these organisms seem to implement. Hence, discoveries in one case are not necessarily transferable between species. This makes claims about animal perception in general difficult to state with authority unless they are so broad as to be meaningless or at least unhelpful. I suspect many readers familiar with these issues would be skeptical about the utility of making generalisations at all. This contributes to my perception that the article is biting off a little more than can be chewed in a single publication. The introduction of the concept of the uncanny valley to this context is interesting! As the author points out we need to be very careful about applying it beyond humans/primates. It would indeed be fascinating to test for the effect in other animals. The author needs to be careful though that their hypothesis that it might apply beyond primates and in specific cases, doesnt get confused even loosely with the "truth" of this, and hence its relevance. E.g. see para. 2 of "Current examples" where you indicate that the "effect suggests...". Indeed in one fun collaboration, a researcher/artist team have tested for something related to the uncanny valley (although this wasnt their motivation) in honeybee attraction to artists renditions of flowers ( https://www.artlink.com.au/articles/3722/insects-as-art-lovers-bees-for-van-gogh/ ). Bees are not fussy and can be trained to visit coloured squares of paper for rewards so I guess they fall at the "no uncanny valley" end of the spectrum. But I am not sure if any measure of initial confusion, discomfort, or any unusual neural activity, might have been recorded experimentally to ascertain the presence of the valley. A group of researchers at Graz, Austria are working on robots, (not VEs), that are intended to influence the behaviour of animals/insects. This might well be research that could investigate the effect the author is considering ( http://zool33.uni-graz.at/artlife/node/208 ). I hear it took the researchers some patient work to encourage bees to accept their robot hive-mates and I am unsure of the degree of their success! Additionally, this indicates another avenue besides complete virtuality for interacting with organisms as the author notes in para. 3 of "Current examples" and later under "Sensorimotor integration" in the context of fish studies. A note on the valley diagram: individual variation may spread horizontally too - i.e. the "pinch points" as the curves cross the x-axis in the graph might be better rendered as broad "fords" across the axis. Lastly, even if the author chooses to remain broad in your discussion of different animals being tested within virtual environments, please consider editing the article, and individual sentences, much more tightly. Perhaps delete references to robot work, noting it is being done, and focus on screen-based work. Or vice versa. Or discuss only the relevance of the uncanny valley. At the moment, as a reader I find the paper is a little too broad. A tighter focus would (for me) make it more enjoyable to read and more informative.