 Title and abstract: Reflective of the content Introduction: The study is important. It would be perfect if the flow of the introduction can be rearranged to make the justification of the study stands out. Beside that, there were many references to adults and children in the text, with emphasis on the latter. Suggest to realign them to better reflect the title and content of the article. Objectives: They are clearer in the abstract but in not the main text. Suggest to detail them out in the main text as well. Methods: Setting: The second paragraph on the availability of healthcare personnel is important in the interpretation of this study. Suggest making it clearer to readers not familiar with Myanmar healthcare system. E.g. replace the below hospital and center in bracket with an additional sentence right after the mention of sub-township level station hospitals to make clear the organisation. Variables and data collection: Would be great if more details are given on the data collector/extractor, any quality control in place, how missing values were handled. Results: Suggest to state if the number of dengue death extracted for this study matched the number of death reported to VBDC through surveillance. Response rate is important to assess selection bias. Table 2: Type of first health care provider visited has categories that overlap each other, e.g. directly admitted into hospital and government doctor can be the same thing. Please label the categories more distinctively. Would be perfect if they are also defined in the operational definition. Patient profile of dengue deaths: Suggest: i) to remove "Among patients who had a first health care provider visit (that was recorded) before getting admitted to the hospital where they died (n=105)", ii) use 32 (10.5%), and iii) use "pharmacist" instead of chemist. Discrepancies can create confusion and reduce readability. Figure 1 Timing of dengue diagnosis: If the objective for this comes in second, suggest to present it in the same way. Consider additional subsection corresponding to the objective. Also, number and percentage of patients who died within 24 hours of admission could not be found in this figure. Diagnosis delay after fever onset: Suggest to convert this table into a figure featuring a horizontal bar, on the left end of which labelled fever onset, the right end - death, and each stage in between. Then put your N, median, and IQR below with tracking lines going upward to different stages on the bar. That way it is understandable at a glance. Discussion: 2nd paragraph: "Most of the patients did not have a diagnosis of dengue fever before admission and more than half of the patients were in shock at admission. This was also seen in a study from Malaysia." Please make it clear that the reference to Malaysia is pointing to "shock at admission" and not "did not have a diagnosis of dengue fever before admission". As 73.6% of patients were suspected to have dengue in the Malaysian study. The first section of discussion can be strengthened by comparing the results of this study with that of the other studies in depth. Implication for policy and practice: Strengthening the discussion in the first section would make these recommendations more persuasive. Suggest to add good practices from other countries to make it compelling. References: To reorganize references. Combine identical item into one reference, e.g. WHO Global Strategy 2012 in references 6 8. 