The paper summarizes clinic-based medical cost estimates during the first year of life for 73 Colombian infants with one of seven specified CCHDs and also provides survey-based estimates of out-of-pocket medical and non-medical costs and productivity costs for 20 families. The following text should be revised for clarity: “The human capital approach and the friction cost approach estimate indirect costs. The loss of productivity is associated with the friction period, i.e., the time the patient takes to be replaced by another employee and for production to return to its former level12.” It should be made clear that those are two alternative approaches that can be used to estimate indirect or productivity costs and that the two methods typically yield very different estimates. The second sentence refers specifically to the friction cost approach. Most (90%) COI studies use the human capital approach, which typically yields substantially larger estimates of productivity costs since there is no time limit. Pike and Grosse (2018) 1 summarize the differences between those two approaches. The study should not be described as following a micro-costing approach. A micro-costing or ingredients costing study assesses labor hours, consumables and supplies, depreciated equipment, floor space, utilities, et al. and the costs of each to calculate the cost of providing a service. Peterson et al. (2014) 2 used micro-costing to assess the costs of CCHD screening in a sample of hospitals in New Jersey, USA. The present paper used information on accounting costs, which is the approach typically used to estimate costs of health care services. The authors are to be commended for seeking to undertake a COI study from the societal perspective, which includes the lost productivity of parents who take leave from employment to help their children obtain medical care. However, only a subset of societal costs have been estimated. First, the study did not include lost productivity associated with caring for a child with CCHD outside of medical encounters. Second, only considering time taken away from paid employment understates the loss of household services displaced by the need to provide care for a sick child. That approach is valid, but it is a partial estimate of the cost of informal care giving. Third, another limitation is the omission of the largest productivity cost using the human capital approach, namely the lost productivity associated with preventable deaths. Fourth, another limitation is that the analysis did not include estimates of costs for governmental programs such as public education. It is well-established that children with CCHDs are much more likely to require special education services. For example, see Oster et al. (2017) 3 . The analysis of out-of-pocket costs likely double-counted medical costs by including both the charge and the amount paid by families, which is part of the overall charge. To avoid double-counting for the societal perspective COI analysis, medical expenses should be subtracted from the out-of-pocket costs reported. It is valid to include those costs in an analysis from the family perspective, in which case the clinic costs would not be included, thereby eliminating any potential double-counting. 