 This is an interesting conceptual paper. It is well written and the concept is clearly outlined, but the analysis is very incomplete. In its current form, the paper is just a trial balloon floating off into the unknown. For example, the paper briefly refers to a desalination plant in Israel that uses reverse osmosis (RO) technology. The plant is described as the largest in the world, yet the reference used to support this statement is undated. I found other sources indicating that it is indeed a very large RO plant and does supply 20% of Israel's potable water, but may no longer be the largest in the world. Remarkably, the paper lacks reference to an even larger desalination plant in Saudi Arabia at Ras al Khair which uses both RO and distillation. About 50% of Saudi Arabia's potable water needs are supplied by desalination (mostly obtained by distillation) and desalinated water has long been used in Saudi Arabia for growing crops. A more thorough analysis of the concept would examine both cases. Clearly, sea levels are rising due to addition of water and thermal expansion. Also clearly, water removed by desalination temporarily reduces sea levels by moving water from the ocean phase to various freshwater phases (such as groundwater, lakes, bottles, land plants, and so on). In addition, there will probably be an increase in the amount of water in atmospheric phases (cloud, etc.). Huge problems with this proposal are not addressed, however, and are mostly not acknowledged. Monetary cost is addressed, but this should be the least of our concerns. Where would the excess salt go and what would be the effects of local increases in ocean salinity? How much energy is consumed in the desalination, brine management, and water distribution processes and how much of that is generated by burning fossil fuels? Manufacture, maintenance and operation of the desalination plants involves mining, metal processing, transport of materials, and so on. Will the removal of water by desalination compensate for the impact of those processes on the climate system, or will this 'solution' simply add to the problem by creating more sea level rise than is reduced by desalination? How would the water be moved from its ocean-side sources to places where it would be useful for plant growth? How much energy will that cost, and how much of it would be fossil-fuel derived? What are the potential agricultural and forest productivities? How would food be delivered from production site to market? Given that the Mediterranean basin is likely to be a suitable initial site (noting that desalination in Israel is identified as a prime example), what are the regional socio-political implications of such a huge project on this region? Where are the production sites and the markets in the Mediterranean basin model? Would such a large-scale project relieve or exacerbate socio-political tensions in the region? How does the potential for desalination in the Mediterranean basin region compare with the experience of desalination in the Red Sea basin? Without a deeper analysis to answer the wide range of questions that this concept invites, I am left unconvinced that the concept could be beneficial. A better start might be to do a full environmental and socio-economic cost-benefit analysis of the large desalination plants in Israel and Saudi Arabia and try scaling up the costs and benefits of the concept from there. Groundwater depletion is a serious global problem, but many of the places where this is happening are in the centres of large continents, far from any ocean. I suggest that moving water over long distances makes the concept unrealistic in full cost-benefit terms. Perhaps desalination could be used to create green corridors along routes of prevailing winds, and in that way help water to move further inland, but there is no hint of this large-scale geo-engineering idea in the paper, and I would anyway tend to dismiss it as not feasible without a detailed analysis of a specific site, such as the Arabian peninsula. Realistically, to make a difference at a global level, massive quantities of water would have to be desalinated and moved from the oceans towards the middle of large dry continents (Asia, Africa, Australia) using wholly renewable sources of energy. How much, how far, and at what environmental costs? All in all, I think this paper is intellectually stimulating but too preliminary to be indexed as a scientific paper. 