The manuscript, particularly the introduction and discussion is poorly written. Each paragraph is an entity on its own and should contain one topic, with a introductory, body and concluding sentence. Many of the paragraphs contain too many topics. Please correct the spelling of Pseudomonas fluorescens throughout the manuscript. In the abstract the authors mention that R. solanacearum produces several toxins – toxins are not the major virulence factor in this pathogen – why this sentence was included in the abstract and no where else in the manuscript, is difficult to undertand. The use phenotypic methods to identify bacteria is no longer sufficient. None of the biocontrol agents or even the causal agent of the wilt symptoms observed where appropriately identified in this study. Based on the latest publications - two Ralstonia species can cause bacterial wilt - R. solanacearum and R. pseudosolanacearum. So which one were they working with? How where the references strains of the biocontrol agents used? Not clear - again their identity needs to be verified by sequencing at the very least (of 16S rRNA). It is unclear how the inoculum concentrations of the bacterial control agents were determined. In the experimental plot the authors mention that bacterial wilt was present the previous year. Although I would agree that the pathogen would be present the following year, how did they insure that all areas of the experimental plots were contaminated with the pathogen? Was there 100% loss the previous year? The use of sucrose in the preparation of the biocontrol agents is concerning. Although the authors noted that it is a common practice in Nepal, the reasons why they would do this need to be provided. The Figures 1-3 are not very useful. I am not exactly sure what the authors are trying to show. Also, in Figure 1 how do your know the bacterial cells are dead? There are no error bars on Figure 4. In Table 4 what do the authors mean by variance. The discussion and conclusions should be reworked into a comprehensive section. Currently the conclusions are longer than the discussion which is not correct. 