"archiDART v3.0: A new data analysis pipeline allowing the topological analysis of plant root systems”, presents new analysis methods available in with the archiDART platform. Constructive Criticisms: As is often the case with multivariate analysis, we reach for our favorite or most comfortable analysis from the myriad of linear alphabet soup. In this case, the authors choose principal component analysis (PCA) to “… determine the key traits differentiating the root systems being compared“. When using linear algebra tools for finding separation of groups based on multiple traits, the authors should consider using a discriminant style analysis such as Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Multi-class LDA (mLDA), or Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA). Unlike PCA, these methods include group structure in the objective function resulting in an answer which is closer to the authors goal. The authors need to take care of the scale or units of the traits when using PCA. For example, if some traits yield numbers on the order of 10^3 and others yield numbers on the order of 10^-3, how would the authors expect this to affect the presented analysis? Similar care needs to be taken when using LDA/mLDA, perhaps a normalization such as z-score or min-max would overcome the problem. As the objective function for PLS-DA has z-score “built” in, it might most easily yield reasonable results. The authors chose to use non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), on the pairwise distance matrix for the persistent homology analysis and PCA for the trait-style analysis. If there a way to present a common approach between these two methodologies? Complements: Simply and most importantly, the authors meet their goal. They present a free, open source, and usable R package for persistent homology analysis and useful accompanying graphical abilities. Conclusions: While a more thorough compare/contrast workup could be presented between the multivariate and persistent homology approaches, this paper does not claim to handle the task. The authors should consider softening the expectations/phrasing of PCA as a discrimination method or use a different approach. 