This is a thoughtful and timely review of an important topic in mood disorders i.e. the circadian regulation of mood and its relevance to the understanding and treatment of major mood disorders. Despite significant efforts over many decades, and incremental improvements in the treatment of depression and bipolar disorder, many patients do not respond to standard treatments. At a clinical level it is apparent that the vast majority of patients with major mood disorders have a significant disruption in one or more aspects of circadian regulation whether it be sleep, activity rhythms, social behavior, energy regulation, hormonal function etc. The current paper adds significantly to the literature in both proposing new ways of thinking about circadian dysregulation and mood and proposing a series of studies that follow from the models proposed. The proposed studies also exemplify well the new Research Domain Criterion strategy to understanding complex pathology. Overall, the paper has a strong emphasis on basic mechanisms, often at a molecular level, which can be difficult to follow at times. It might be of interest for the authors to balance this approach with a consideration of the possible evolutionary/adaptive significance of the mechanisms under consideration as this might provide further context for their arguments. For example, what might be the advantage to a particular species of having the ability to bifurcate circadian rhythms? Or do the authors propose that this bifurcation only occurs in pathological situations or when the system is stressed beyond its normal physiological control? In terms of specific mechanisms, while the current paper emphasizes melatonin studies at many points, it can be argued that the neurotransmitter dopamine is as important to daytime activity rhythms and arousal as melatonin is to sleep rhythms and physiology at night. Accumulating evidence suggests that there are several ways by which melatonin and dopamine interact and modulate one another, including basic circadian rhythmicity (reviewed by Zisapel, 2001 ). Furthermore, there is a large body of work demonstrating dopaminergic dysfunction in mood disorders and bipolar disorder in particular. It may be that the best way forward for future work on circadian physiology and mood is to consider these two systems as one integrated system and to understand their interplay in the regulation of mood. How this might relate to the proposed hypotheses and research program might be of great interest going forward.