This manuscript intends to estimate the prevalance of autism spectrum disorder in rural children of 18-36 months.It uses a cross-sectional study design for this purpose. Comments for consideration are : 1.The use of the word age-specific in the objective is not neessary in my opinion. 2. The manuscript would benefit if it follows the STROBE reporting guidelines for cross-sectional study. Such reporting will enable understanding of the methodology better for the purpose of critique and reproducibility. This is mandatory as per F1000 guidelines. 3. Please clarify if the criteria for selection of unions - was it all the rural unions in Raiganj Upazila or was it the functioning ongoing surviellence system. Are the three unions which were not included as rural classified as urban by the government ? It might be good to name the six unions included. 4. The manuscript mentions all households of selected union was included - how was the list of universe of households obtained ? 5. Not sure what the expected outcome sub-section within sampling is for - consider deletion. 6. Please provide reference to MCHAT anf flash card methods being used in this study in other similar study. I am not sure why DSM-IV TR or ADOS is explained in the manuscript . Consider discussing why the issues are different in different studies. 7.Explain how the study size was calculated - was it powered for gender disaggregation. Was it powered for measuring other neurological conditions described in the paper. The result thus provides many other things and there is need of clarity to understand this better. 9. Discussion needs a section on potential limiations of the study and ways that has been taken to address the bias. How do the results of the study compare to that in other SEARO countries. 10. The Abstract conclusion mentions " Age specific autism (18-36 months) in children is found higher in rural community of Bangladesh. " It is not clear higher in comparison to what ? The idea about needing more studies in future is generic. Please consider providing more specific information. 11. Some points mentioned in the discussion like the "56.1% of the mothers of ASD suspected children had low level or no formal education background. " are probably of no intepretive value considered this is not a RR or OR and the fact that only 4 cases were found. Same for other things in the discussion. 