I'm commenting on this sentence from the first paragraph of Version 3 of the article: The Green route is also enabled through author rights retention, in which authors pre-emptively grant non-exclusive rights to their institutions before publishing any works. The institution then has the ability to make articles by these authors OA without seeking permission from the publishers (e.g., this is the case of the Dutch Taverne amendment that has declared self-archival of research after ‘a reasonable period of time’ a legal right ( Open Access NL, 2015 )). ​The authors added the bulk of this at my request in an earlier comment. I'm glad they did, but it's still only partially true. It's true that universities can adopt rights-retention OA policies that make it unnecessary to seek permission from publishers. But it's not true that Dutch Taverne amendment is an example. It's not a university policy, but legislation. It's legislation that gives authors permission for green OA regardless of the contracts they signed, and regardless of the rights they might have retained through a university policy. It's a very good idea and I recommend it everywhere. (There is already a similar law in Germany, and one is now emerging in France.) But what the authors need here is an example of a university rights-retention OA policy, or a thorough explanation of this kind of OA policy. I'm not seeking a citation to my own university's activity, though it adopted the first OA policies of this kind. Nor am I seeking a citation to the good-practices guide that I maintain with Stuart Shieber, though it's the standard reference on this kind of policy. In fact, I was reluctant to follow up the authors' response to my prior suggestion because I didn't want to appear to seek additional citations. But since I've gone this far, I'll mention these two sources anyway: The Harvard open-access policies https://osc.hul.harvard.edu/policies/ ​Good practices for university open-access policies http://bit.ly/goodoa Of the two, I'd recommend the second in this situation. But even if the authors include no citation on this point, at least they should stop citing the Dutch law as an example, and treat it separately as another path to the same goal.