The authors conclude that Morgellons is a distinct skin disease related to Borrelia infection. However, some questions deserve comments: This is a descriptive manuscript, based on the authors' research and case reports. Unfortunately, it is lacking a large panel of Morgellons cases with presentations of clinical symptoms, laboratory findings (including additional Borrelia infection research), biopsies with histological and immunohistological studies for spirochetal identification and skin filament examination (including anti-collagen type I and III antibodies, since the authors believe that the filaments are collagens and keratin) and PCR for Borrelia in all collected skin samples. Previous studies carried out by the authors suggest that spirochetes were found in Morgellons disease patients, and also in bovine digital dermatitis (BDD). In fact, BDD is a real spirochetosis causing disease in animals. However, the finding of spirochetes in a small number of Morgellons cases by Mayne et al . could be contested. Spirochete-like structures (artifacts) have been previously reported following blood or skin cultures in BSK medium 1 . These structures are spiral and also stained by silver nitrate. These artifacts appear as a consequence of bacteria death (for any microorganisms with flagella and not necessarily Borrelia ) 2 . Additionally, spirochetes are common microorganisms found in the human mouth and bowel. Therefore, eventual contamination of open wounds by these bacteria is a real possibility. Are fatigue, arthritis, myalgia, psychiatric symptoms, and cognitive disturbances part of Morgellons disease as cited in the paper? These and other symptoms can be observed in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) or myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME), which is a very severe acquired disease caused by many infectious agents (including Borrelia ), environmental conditions/toxins and physical or emotional trauma. Patients with ME show fatigue, headache, muscle/joint pain, psychiatric abnormalities, immune/allergic disturbance, and autonomic and cardiovascular disturbances. Instead of considering Morgellons as distinct disease responsible for the emergence of such symptoms, it may be more judicious to accept that Morgellons cases should, in fact, be classed as additional clinical manifestations of ME. In this respect, Morgellons should not be considered to be a true distinct clinical disorder, but instead an additional symptom of ME. It is interesting to note that patients with Brazilian Lyme disease imitator Borreliosis (Baggio-Yoshinari syndrome) (BYS) exhibit a high frequency of myalgic encephalomyelitis or chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) symptoms. For this reason, confirmation of ME/CFS in suspected patients is taken into account when diagnosing BYS 3 . The presence of such symptoms creates enormous confusion in patients with late manifestations of Brazilian Borreliosis, since the distinction between clinical manifestations of true BYS relapse (generally treatable) and ME symptoms (barely treatable) is very difficult. Additionally, recent studies have also suggested Borrelia infections as one of the etiological agents of ME/CFS 4 . In conclusion, the paper written by Peter Mayne et al . must be approved with reservations. It is necessary for there to be a larger bank of cases and the inclusion of additional scientific methodologies in order to provide definite proof for the presence of Borrelia in skin tissues. Biochemical and immunological procedures should also be employed, to confirm the existence of collagen and keratin in the filaments. References 1. Abel IS, Marzagão G, Yoshinari NH, Schumaker TT: Borrelia-like spirochetes recovered from ticks and small mammals collected in the Atlantic Forest Reserve, Cotia County, State of São Paulo. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz . 2000; 95 (5): 621-624 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 2. Rahman M, Macis FR: Pseudo-leptospires in blood culture. J Clin Path . 1979; 32 : 1226-1227 Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 3. Yoshinari NH, Mantovani E, Bonoldi VLN, Marangoni RG, et al.: Brazilian Lyme- like disease or Baggio-Yoshinari Syndrome. Exotic and emerging Brazilian tick-borne zoonosis. Rev Assoc Med Bras . 2010; 56 (5): 363-369 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Hooper M: Myalgic encephalomyelitis: a Review with emphasis on key findings in biomedical research. J Clin Pathol . 2007; 60 : 466-471 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT H Yoshinari N. Reviewer Report For: Morgellons: a novel dermatological perspective as the multisystem infective disease borreliosis [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :118 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.1338.r1576 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-118/v1#referee-response-1576 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: MacDonald AB. Reviewer Report For: Morgellons: a novel dermatological perspective as the multisystem infective disease borreliosis [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :118 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.1338.r993 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-118/v1#referee-response-993 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 07 Jun 2013 Alan B MacDonald , Department of Biology and Environmental Science, University of New Haven, West Haven, CT, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.1338.r993 The abstract is concise, cogent and informative. The methods and analytical procedures used are clear and acceptable. The authors ... Continue reading READ ALL 