In this topical and well argued paper, Steve Frank proposes the framework within which one should consider causes of disparate disease processes as either primarily local, or primarily generalized. The focus is mainly on neurodegeneration, and specifically ALS. This condition does appear to start in one location, at least clinically, and spread in an apparently contiguous manner in most cases. A helpful contrast is drawn between the possibilities of a local event which may include a somatic mutation (on which he has eloquently written in the past) [1], and spread, which is an idea that has certainly spread over recent years. Importantly, the agents of spread may not be proteins in all cases, and this is stated here, as RNA and others are also mentioned. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations. There is now clear evidence of extensive mixing of cells in early development, with work particularly from the Chris Walsh lab showing how a somatic mutation in brain could also be present throughout a broad region, and perhaps even further afield at a lower level.[2] Apparently synchronous or near-synchronous onset in disparate locations could be due to such a phenomenon, with multifocal onset reported in Parkinson’s disease.[3] This would lead to spatially separated positions progressing independently as stated, but the origin could still be a somatic mutation, which happened early enough in development to allow its progeny to be spatially separated. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. Intriguingly perhaps one could actually invoke the cell as the agent of spread of somatic mutations through migration at the early neurodevelopmental stage, resulting in the spatially disparate somatic mutation situation I outlined above. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. References 1. Frank SA: Evolution in health and medicine Sackler colloquium: Somatic evolutionary genomics: mutations during development cause highly variable genetic mosaicism with risk of cancer and neurodegeneration. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2010; 107 Suppl 1 : 1725-30 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Lodato MA, Woodworth MB, Lee S, Evrony GD, et al.: Somatic mutation in single human neurons tracks developmental and transcriptional history. Science . 2015; 350 (6256): 94-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Dickson DW, Fujishiro H, DelleDonne A, Menke J, et al.: Evidence that incidental Lewy body disease is pre-symptomatic Parkinson's disease. Acta Neuropathol . 2008; 115 (4): 437-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Brettschneider J, Del Tredici K, Toledo JB, Robinson JL, et al.: Stages of pTDP-43 pathology in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Ann Neurol . 2013; 74 (1): 20-38 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Proukakis C. Reviewer Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2537 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10555.r17107 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1#referee-response-17107 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 06 Dec 2016 Steven Frank , University of California, Irvine, USA 06 Dec 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the ... Continue reading Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the final publication, and I am very pleased to have this report included. I add a few replies here, which will also be included as part of the final publication. I list referee comments in italics. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations... I agree. However, a key issue concerns the more or less synchronous decay across spatial locations. Dispersed mutations by themselves might lead to parallel independent decay in different locations, but the near synchrony of the decay remains a puzzle. For example, in cancers associated with an inherited mutation carried by all cells, aggressive tumors typically do not appear simultaneously in diverse spatial locations. Instead, different locations progress at different rates, leading to different foci that typically progress to aggressive disease at different times. Of course, there may be cases of approximate synchrony, but I had in mind the likely situation in which particular mutations predispose to disease but are not by themselves sufficient. I did discuss how dispersed mutations may play a key role as spatially distributed altered "soil" that would enhance the spread of a local trigger. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. The role of different cell types is likely to be important. I suspect that following up on this point by careful reading of the current literature and further thought would lead to useful hypotheses and perhaps some insight. However, I do not have a properly detailed response at present, and so I will simply agree that this is a topic worth pursuing. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. This comment includes the answer that I favor and also emphasized in my article. With regard to triggers, the answer is given by the referee as *I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events,* emphasizing the point I made above that a mutation likely predisposes but by itself does not change a cell to the diseased state. With regard to spread, *differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events,* that is the point of my emphasis in the text on the seed and soil hypothesis, in which differential vulnerability relates to an altered, receptive soil. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. The agent of spread in cancer is perhaps a bit more complex than stated here. Many mechanistic aspects of cancer transcend single cells. For example, secretion of digestive factors that help to penetrate tissue barriers may often be crucial. Similarly, tumors may often secrete a variety of immunomodulatory factors that act both locally and globally, and the various mechanisms that stimulate angiogenesis can be crucial. In cancer, cells may be the key factor for triggering distant metastatic spread, but a variety of extracellular processes may be important in all phases of carcinogenesis. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. With regard to neurodegeneration, I think the issue may again be a bit more subtle. Diet, overall health, immune status, and many other global factors will influence the variety of potential ways in which circulating blood may carry the agents that change spatially distributed aspects of neural tissue. Those changes may act in two ways. First, such changes may interact with a local somatic mutation to transform one or a few cells, which can then act as a trigger. Second, such changes may alter many spatially distributed sites in parallel, fertilizing the soil to be more receptive to triggering seeds when they arise. Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the final publication, and I am very pleased to have this report included. I add a few replies here, which will also be included as part of the final publication. I list referee comments in italics. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations... I agree. However, a key issue concerns the more or less synchronous decay across spatial locations. Dispersed mutations by themselves might lead to parallel independent decay in different locations, but the near synchrony of the decay remains a puzzle. For example, in cancers associated with an inherited mutation carried by all cells, aggressive tumors typically do not appear simultaneously in diverse spatial locations. Instead, different locations progress at different rates, leading to different foci that typically progress to aggressive disease at different times. Of course, there may be cases of approximate synchrony, but I had in mind the likely situation in which particular mutations predispose to disease but are not by themselves sufficient. I did discuss how dispersed mutations may play a key role as spatially distributed altered "soil" that would enhance the spread of a local trigger. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. The role of different cell types is likely to be important. I suspect that following up on this point by careful reading of the current literature and further thought would lead to useful hypotheses and perhaps some insight. However, I do not have a properly detailed response at present, and so I will simply agree that this is a topic worth pursuing. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. This comment includes the answer that I favor and also emphasized in my article. With regard to triggers, the answer is given by the referee as *I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events,* emphasizing the point I made above that a mutation likely predisposes but by itself does not change a cell to the diseased state. With regard to spread, *differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events,* that is the point of my emphasis in the text on the seed and soil hypothesis, in which differential vulnerability relates to an altered, receptive soil. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. The agent of spread in cancer is perhaps a bit more complex than stated here. Many mechanistic aspects of cancer transcend single cells. For example, secretion of digestive factors that help to penetrate tissue barriers may often be crucial. Similarly, tumors may often secrete a variety of immunomodulatory factors that act both locally and globally, and the various mechanisms that stimulate angiogenesis can be crucial. In cancer, cells may be the key factor for triggering distant metastatic spread, but a variety of extracellular processes may be important in all phases of carcinogenesis. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. With regard to neurodegeneration, I think the issue may again be a bit more subtle. Diet, overall health, immune status, and many other global factors will influence the variety of potential ways in which circulating blood may carry the agents that change spatially distributed aspects of neural tissue. Those changes may act in two ways. First, such changes may interact with a local somatic mutation to transform one or a few cells, which can then act as a trigger. Second, such changes may alter many spatially distributed sites in parallel, fertilizing the soil to be more receptive to triggering seeds when they arise. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 06 Dec 2016 Steven Frank , University of California, Irvine, USA 06 Dec 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the ... Continue reading Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the final publication, and I am very pleased to have this report included. I add a few replies here, which will also be included as part of the final publication. I list referee comments in italics. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations... I agree. However, a key issue concerns the more or less synchronous decay across spatial locations. Dispersed mutations by themselves might lead to parallel independent decay in different locations, but the near synchrony of the decay remains a puzzle. For example, in cancers associated with an inherited mutation carried by all cells, aggressive tumors typically do not appear simultaneously in diverse spatial locations. Instead, different locations progress at different rates, leading to different foci that typically progress to aggressive disease at different times. Of course, there may be cases of approximate synchrony, but I had in mind the likely situation in which particular mutations predispose to disease but are not by themselves sufficient. I did discuss how dispersed mutations may play a key role as spatially distributed altered "soil" that would enhance the spread of a local trigger. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. The role of different cell types is likely to be important. I suspect that following up on this point by careful reading of the current literature and further thought would lead to useful hypotheses and perhaps some insight. However, I do not have a properly detailed response at present, and so I will simply agree that this is a topic worth pursuing. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. This comment includes the answer that I favor and also emphasized in my article. With regard to triggers, the answer is given by the referee as *I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events,* emphasizing the point I made above that a mutation likely predisposes but by itself does not change a cell to the diseased state. With regard to spread, *differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events,* that is the point of my emphasis in the text on the seed and soil hypothesis, in which differential vulnerability relates to an altered, receptive soil. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. The agent of spread in cancer is perhaps a bit more complex than stated here. Many mechanistic aspects of cancer transcend single cells. For example, secretion of digestive factors that help to penetrate tissue barriers may often be crucial. Similarly, tumors may often secrete a variety of immunomodulatory factors that act both locally and globally, and the various mechanisms that stimulate angiogenesis can be crucial. In cancer, cells may be the key factor for triggering distant metastatic spread, but a variety of extracellular processes may be important in all phases of carcinogenesis. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. With regard to neurodegeneration, I think the issue may again be a bit more subtle. Diet, overall health, immune status, and many other global factors will influence the variety of potential ways in which circulating blood may carry the agents that change spatially distributed aspects of neural tissue. Those changes may act in two ways. First, such changes may interact with a local somatic mutation to transform one or a few cells, which can then act as a trigger. Second, such changes may alter many spatially distributed sites in parallel, fertilizing the soil to be more receptive to triggering seeds when they arise. Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the final publication, and I am very pleased to have this report included. I add a few replies here, which will also be included as part of the final publication. I list referee comments in italics. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations... I agree. However, a key issue concerns the more or less synchronous decay across spatial locations. Dispersed mutations by themselves might lead to parallel independent decay in different locations, but the near synchrony of the decay remains a puzzle. For example, in cancers associated with an inherited mutation carried by all cells, aggressive tumors typically do not appear simultaneously in diverse spatial locations. Instead, different locations progress at different rates, leading to different foci that typically progress to aggressive disease at different times. Of course, there may be cases of approximate synchrony, but I had in mind the likely situation in which particular mutations predispose to disease but are not by themselves sufficient. I did discuss how dispersed mutations may play a key role as spatially distributed altered "soil" that would enhance the spread of a local trigger. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. The role of different cell types is likely to be important. I suspect that following up on this point by careful reading of the current literature and further thought would lead to useful hypotheses and perhaps some insight. However, I do not have a properly detailed response at present, and so I will simply agree that this is a topic worth pursuing. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. This comment includes the answer that I favor and also emphasized in my article. With regard to triggers, the answer is given by the referee as *I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events,* emphasizing the point I made above that a mutation likely predisposes but by itself does not change a cell to the diseased state. With regard to spread, *differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events,* that is the point of my emphasis in the text on the seed and soil hypothesis, in which differential vulnerability relates to an altered, receptive soil. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. The agent of spread in cancer is perhaps a bit more complex than stated here. Many mechanistic aspects of cancer transcend single cells. For example, secretion of digestive factors that help to penetrate tissue barriers may often be crucial. Similarly, tumors may often secrete a variety of immunomodulatory factors that act both locally and globally, and the various mechanisms that stimulate angiogenesis can be crucial. In cancer, cells may be the key factor for triggering distant metastatic spread, but a variety of extracellular processes may be important in all phases of carcinogenesis. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. With regard to neurodegeneration, I think the issue may again be a bit more subtle. Diet, overall health, immune status, and many other global factors will influence the variety of potential ways in which circulating blood may carry the agents that change spatially distributed aspects of neural tissue. Those changes may act in two ways. First, such changes may interact with a local somatic mutation to transform one or a few cells, which can then act as a trigger. Second, such changes may alter many spatially distributed sites in parallel, fertilizing the soil to be more receptive to triggering seeds when they arise. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 19 Oct 2016 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 1 19 Oct 16 read read Christos Proukakis , University College London, London, UK Anya Plutynski , Washington University St. Louis, St. Louis, USA Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Plutynski A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 22 Nov 2016 | for Version 1 Anya Plutynski , Department of Philosophy, Washington University St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA 0 Views copyright © 2016 Plutynski A. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions I had only few minor comments and a suggested reference: First, there was some redundancy in the paper: local v. spatially distributed origins as possibilities was mentioned at least twice. Second, I really liked the following point, and wondered if this might be developed further, “mechanistic studies often do not explicitly frame analysis of cause in terms of the variety of potential mechanisms for local triggers and spread versus the variety of potential mechanisms for dispersed origin. My only purpose here is to clarify the relation between different mechanisms and the broader framework in which we must understand the puzzles of disease onset and progression.” The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? To explain, perhaps in some cases a local lesion may advance so quickly that it clearly is a single origin story. In other cases (perhaps for other cancer types or subtypes), typically, many independent populations of porto-cancer cells may be arising simultaneously. For cancers of epithelial origin, the latter seems likely; Martincorena et al., (2015) provide independent evidence in favor of the notion that mutations are always accumulating in healthy tissue, most epithelial cells slough off and do not become cancers, but some acquire sufficient mutations to advance to disease. References 1. Martincorena I, Roshan A, Gerstung M, Ellis P, et al.: Tumor evolution. High burden and pervasive positive selection of somatic mutations in normal human skin. Science . 2015; 348 (6237): 880-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member 06 Dec 2016 Steven Frank, University of California, Irvine, USA I appreciate Anya Plutynski's thoughtful and encouraging comments. On F1000Research, the referee reports and author comments are part of the final publication, so I will respond here. Plutynski's second point mentions: The idea here seems to be that mechanistic approaches must always be supplemented or contextualized in specific ways, if our aim is to differentiate between alternative hypotheses about origins of disease? Perhaps a firmer and more general statement to this effect might be worth making. As a general point, this is worth emphasizing! I think this is likely to be true. However, to address the "always" or even to say "usually," I would first have to give a lot of thought to other diseases and, for each, the variety of potential mechanisms. Perhaps this would be a good long-term project to develop, leading to a variety of insights about how to study the possible alternative causes of disease. For now, I will only say "thank you." Plutynski's third point mentions: Last: are local v. spatially distributed initiations of the disease mutually exclusive options for a given disease, or could one be in play in some cases, and another be in play in other cases? I agree. Once one is thinking along these lines, my main point has been made successfully. As emphasized by the referee, what appears to the "same" disease endpoint can arise from a variety of mechanistic pathways. Although the pathways may vary, it seems likely that distinguishing local and spatial aspects along particular trajectories will help to parse how the variety of causes interact, and the ways in which distinct pathways differ. View more View less Competing Interests None reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Plutynski A. Peer Review Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2537 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10555.r17108) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1#referee-response-17108 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Proukakis C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 08 Nov 2016 | for Version 1 Christos Proukakis , Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK 0 Views copyright © 2016 Proukakis C. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In this topical and well argued paper, Steve Frank proposes the framework within which one should consider causes of disparate disease processes as either primarily local, or primarily generalized. The focus is mainly on neurodegeneration, and specifically ALS. This condition does appear to start in one location, at least clinically, and spread in an apparently contiguous manner in most cases. A helpful contrast is drawn between the possibilities of a local event which may include a somatic mutation (on which he has eloquently written in the past) [1], and spread, which is an idea that has certainly spread over recent years. Importantly, the agents of spread may not be proteins in all cases, and this is stated here, as RNA and others are also mentioned. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations. There is now clear evidence of extensive mixing of cells in early development, with work particularly from the Chris Walsh lab showing how a somatic mutation in brain could also be present throughout a broad region, and perhaps even further afield at a lower level.[2] Apparently synchronous or near-synchronous onset in disparate locations could be due to such a phenomenon, with multifocal onset reported in Parkinson’s disease.[3] This would lead to spatially separated positions progressing independently as stated, but the origin could still be a somatic mutation, which happened early enough in development to allow its progeny to be spatially separated. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. Intriguingly perhaps one could actually invoke the cell as the agent of spread of somatic mutations through migration at the early neurodevelopmental stage, resulting in the spatially disparate somatic mutation situation I outlined above. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. References 1. Frank SA: Evolution in health and medicine Sackler colloquium: Somatic evolutionary genomics: mutations during development cause highly variable genetic mosaicism with risk of cancer and neurodegeneration. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A . 2010; 107 Suppl 1 : 1725-30 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Lodato MA, Woodworth MB, Lee S, Evrony GD, et al.: Somatic mutation in single human neurons tracks developmental and transcriptional history. Science . 2015; 350 (6256): 94-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Dickson DW, Fujishiro H, DelleDonne A, Menke J, et al.: Evidence that incidental Lewy body disease is pre-symptomatic Parkinson's disease. Acta Neuropathol . 2008; 115 (4): 437-44 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Brettschneider J, Del Tredici K, Toledo JB, Robinson JL, et al.: Stages of pTDP-43 pathology in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Ann Neurol . 2013; 74 (1): 20-38 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member 06 Dec 2016 Steven Frank, University of California, Irvine, USA Christos Proukakis has provided an excellent commentary on the origins and spread of neurodegenerative disease, placing my article in that broader context. F1000Research includes referee reports as part of the final publication, and I am very pleased to have this report included. I add a few replies here, which will also be included as part of the final publication. I list referee comments in italics. One point that deserves some discussion is the assertion that somatic mutations would generally be limited to causing local onset. This is true if one accepts that a single cell, or handful of neighbouring cells, could be the trigger. A more widespread onset, but still due to somatic mutations, could be caused by widespread dispersion of early somatic mutations... I agree. However, a key issue concerns the more or less synchronous decay across spatial locations. Dispersed mutations by themselves might lead to parallel independent decay in different locations, but the near synchrony of the decay remains a puzzle. For example, in cancers associated with an inherited mutation carried by all cells, aggressive tumors typically do not appear simultaneously in diverse spatial locations. Instead, different locations progress at different rates, leading to different foci that typically progress to aggressive disease at different times. Of course, there may be cases of approximate synchrony, but I had in mind the likely situation in which particular mutations predispose to disease but are not by themselves sufficient. I did discuss how dispersed mutations may play a key role as spatially distributed altered "soil" that would enhance the spread of a local trigger. It is implicit that neurodegenerative diseases affect specific brain cell types, which differ in each one, with selective vulnerability being a key determinant of pathology, along with initiation / spread process. Most readers will be aware of this, but this could be explicitly clarified e.g. to page 2 “the broad neural landscape”. The role of different cell types is likely to be important. I suspect that following up on this point by careful reading of the current literature and further thought would lead to useful hypotheses and perhaps some insight. However, I do not have a properly detailed response at present, and so I will simply agree that this is a topic worth pursuing. “Trigger versus spread”. I note the suggestion that an inherited mutation, present therefore in all cells, may lead to earlier onset by allowing spread to start earlier. This is in line with a staging pathology scheme proposed in a genetic subset of ALS, which claims to describe the sequence of spread.[4] I do not conceptually understand why one has to invoke spread in situations where every cell carries a mutation which can act in a direct or indirect pathogenic way locally. If the mutation has a pathogenic effect, then surely no spread is required when it is present in all cells? I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events, but differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events, particularly if it is stereotyped. This comment includes the answer that I favor and also emphasized in my article. With regard to triggers, the answer is given by the referee as *I accept that this does not exclude spread, which could still underlie a temporal sequence of events,* emphasizing the point I made above that a mutation likely predisposes but by itself does not change a cell to the diseased state. With regard to spread, *differential vulnerability could also determine the sequence of events,* that is the point of my emphasis in the text on the seed and soil hypothesis, in which differential vulnerability relates to an altered, receptive soil. The author finally proceeds to compare this potential dichotomy with cancer and cardiovascular diseases, as situations where, after local initiation, pathology can spread through relevant factors. While it may seem obvious, it should be stated that in the case of cancer the agent of spread is the cell, which clearly is not the case in neurodegenerative disorders. The agent of spread in cancer is perhaps a bit more complex than stated here. Many mechanistic aspects of cancer transcend single cells. For example, secretion of digestive factors that help to penetrate tissue barriers may often be crucial. Similarly, tumors may often secrete a variety of immunomodulatory factors that act both locally and globally, and the various mechanisms that stimulate angiogenesis can be crucial. In cancer, cells may be the key factor for triggering distant metastatic spread, but a variety of extracellular processes may be important in all phases of carcinogenesis. Furthermore, the medium through which distant spread occurs in these disease categories, circulating blood, does not appear relevant to neurodegeneration, which (if spread is involved) would have to spread through physically connected neurons. Whether this occurs through trans-synaptic spread, secretion (which may or may not involve exosomes), or tunneling nanotubes, is an ongoing debate, albeit beyond the scope of this valuable opinion piece. With regard to neurodegeneration, I think the issue may again be a bit more subtle. Diet, overall health, immune status, and many other global factors will influence the variety of potential ways in which circulating blood may carry the agents that change spatially distributed aspects of neural tissue. Those changes may act in two ways. First, such changes may interact with a local somatic mutation to transform one or a few cells, which can then act as a trigger. Second, such changes may alter many spatially distributed sites in parallel, fertilizing the soil to be more receptive to triggering seeds when they arise. View more View less Competing Interests None reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Proukakis C. Peer Review Report For: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2537 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10555.r17107) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1#referee-response-17107 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration,...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Frank SA');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537",
 templates : {
 twitter : "Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin.... Frank SA, published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2537/v1"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Opinion Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: Puzzles in modern biology. IV. Neurodegeneration, localized origin and widespread decay", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/9790/10555")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "10555");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "17106": 0,
 "17107": 7,
 "17108": 5,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "51af5b93-05bb-46bd-a92d-b9a371afe119";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 