The systematic review and meta-analysis regarding pulpotomy versus pulpectomy in the treatment of vital pulp exposure in primary incisors is well designed and that the methodology and discussion are well written. One question I have is: was the protocol of this review registered before carrying out the research? Some mistakes in writing the manuscript are present which are: Please be sure the reference number is written right after the author name through-out the whole manuscript. In the background section of the abstract: This study aimed to assess the (effectiveness) of pulpotomy and pulpecomy (pulpectomy) in treatment of carious vital pulp exposure in primary incisors. In the conclusion section of the abstract; Further high quality studies comparing between pulpotomy and pulpectomy in primary incisors with longer follow up period till exfoliation time (are needed). Page 2, introduction section: In pulpectomy(,) a resorbable material such as nonreinforced According to a Cochrane systematic review(,) there was no Endoflas were found to be equally effective(.) (W)hile(,) with (a) low quality of evidence(,) zinc oxide and eugenol may be better than We(,) therefore(,) aimed to determine in patients with carious vital pulp exposure in primary incisors(,) if pulpotomy is better than Page 6: Duration of follow up.: “Follow up was at 12 and 24 months in two trials, by Aminabadi et al[ ref-1] and Casas et al 2 .” .do you mean that both studies used a 12 and 24 months follow up period or that the first study used 12 months follow up while the second was 24 months? Please clarify. Follow up was (up) to 23 months at three intervals: 5–9, 10–14, and 15–23 months Anesthesia: under local anesthesia (by) Aminabadi et al 1 . Medicaments -- Pulpotomy: please rewrite this paragraph noting that 2 trials performed formocresol pulpotomy as we don’t achieve hemostasis with formocresol. Pulp access: In the trial (by) Howley et al 3 the pulp chamber was unroofed using Pulpotomy: in another (the other) two trials by Nguyen et al[ ref-4] and Casas et al[ ref-2]. Final restoration : Resin restorations was (were) performed in three….. Full coverage crowns whether stainless steel crown (SCC) or SCC with white esthetic veneer( were used ) in Howley et al( trial ) 3 . Results of studies; nor pulpectomy in this (the) 23 month(s) trial by Howley et al 3 . The clinical failure rate was 13.1% for pulpotomy and 4.4% (for pulpectomy) at page 7: radiological failure.: was in (remove "in") 41% in the pulpotomy group and 18% in pulpectomy group at 2 years follow up trial by Casas et al[ ref-2]. Pain: No pain was reported in either group(s) in Howley et al 3 . trial9. No pain was reported in either group(s) in the Casas et al 2 . trial21. Soft tissue pathology: No soft tissue pathology was reported in either group(s) in Howley et al 3 . (trial)9. Pathological mobility: Pathologic mobility was not reported for any tooth in three trials (;) Howley et al 3 .9(,) ,Aminabadi et al 1 .20 and Casas et al 2 .21. Pathological radiolucency: At 2 years follow up(,) 5 teeth (11.11%) showed follow up(,) 7 teeth (58%) showed periapical radiolucency in the pathological root resorption: while for internal resorption(,) one tooth (3%) showed perforating At 2 years follow up(,) pathologic external or internal root resorption occurred in 6 teeth (13.3%) (in) the pulpotomy group and in 2 teeth (4.34%) (in) the pulpectomy group in the Aminabadi et al. trial20 At 2 years follow up(,) pathologic external root resorption occurred Pulp canal obliteration: At 23 months(,) pulp canal obliterationmwas seen in 18 teeth (60%) in the pulpotomy group in Howley et al. 9 (trial). At 2 year follow up(,) no teeth showed pulp canal obliteration Pages 8 and 9: Please add reference number to authors names in the titles of tables 4 to 7. Page 11, discussion section: 2 nd paragraph: After exclusion of one trial due to its high risk of bias(,) (only) three trials (were left) to be included in the meta-analysis.(were left) to be included in the meta-analysis. Overall failure was reported for two pulpotomized incisors in two trials. (on the other hand,) tooth survival(,) although it is an important outcome(,) but it is not commonly reported. The overall risk of bias of primary studies was low for three trials, except for the unclear risk for blinding of clinical assessment which was not effective(.)(W)e did not have access to all the trial protocols to assess the selective reporting bias except (for) only one trial. 