The manuscript by Wiley et al. presents an interesting and novel finding that keratinocytes express a truncated form of ABCA4 protein that may be responsible for cell viability. Keratinocytes from patients with disease-causing mutations in the ABCA4 protein appear to have low viability upon passaging in culture when compared to control cells (from patients with unknown ABCA4 mutations and unaffected individuals). The manuscript is well written and the data are clearly presented. However, there are some important key points that are not fully clear thereby making it difficult to accurately assess the biological relevance of the current work: Fig. 1 panel A: an internal control should be considered in order to estimate the relative abundance of the ABCA4 isoform relative to the retina samples. Although the authors do not comment on this aspect, there is a ~70kDA band in both bovine and human retina samples. Perhaps, lowering the total protein amount and including an internal standard (i.e. tubulin, actin or GAPDH) along with keratinocytes from patients with disease-causing ABCA4 mutations could help with interpreting and quantifying the data from this panel. Fig. 1 panel B and C: at gross evaluation, there are slight differences between the distribution of ABCA4/Phalloidin staining of the two analyzed normal keratinocytes. There are larger cells and more punctate ABCA4 distribution in KTC 54 (panel B) compared to KTC32 (panel C), possibly due to different passages or culturing conditions. It may help to add the ABCA4/Phalloidin staining profiles of keratinocytes collected from patients with disease-causing ABCA4 mutations. All cells should be harvested, cultured and passaged similarly. Moreover, how specific is this ABCA4 antibody? A negative control, pre-immune (secondary antibody only) must be included to determine the background staining level. Fig. 1 panel D: representative images of passages 6 and 9 should be provided for each group. The identification of disease-causing ABCA4 mutations found in the studied keratinocytes should be reported. Fig. 1 panel E: ABCA4 immunostaining should be done in the skin of the patients with molecularly confirmed ABCA4 mutations also not just in the control skin of a normal individual. General comment: It would be important to know if selected keratinocytes from patients with disease-causing ABCA4 mutations express a misfolded ABCA4 protein or if they do not express the ABCA4 protein at all. Providing sequencing data regarding the ABCA4 variants from keratinocytes isolated from Stargardt patients would be valuable. The discussion should be expanded to explain how the identification of this truncated form of ABCA4 is relevant to studies of the full-length ABCA4 in the iPS-derived photoreceptor cells or perhaps in other cell types. It would also be interesting to know if it is even possible to reprogram and differentiate these genetically mutated keratinocytes in order to obtain a specific cell-type that may be useful for future analyses. The identification of the ABCA4 protein in keratinocytes, most likely an alternatively spliced isoform, is novel and suggests a physiologic role of ABCA4 in other cell types besides the photoreceptors.