This manuscript describes a new computational tool named Veridical, which detects mutant-allele specific splicing changes from large RNAseq datasets. This outstanding tool appears very useful to screen the wealth of transcriptomic data for effects in splicing due to mutations in disease samples, and I think that it will potentially be of interest for many if not all such RNAseq-based studies. In addition, this could spur further efforts to derive similar tools with improved efficiencies. Use of this method should help establish the importance of aberrant splicing in disease as well as the effects of genomic mutations at the RNA level. I only have two comments, that do not diminish my overall rating of this work as of high value: I personally disagree with the widespread use of the word “validation” in the title, abstract and text. Authors describe Veridical as a tool to “validate” DNA sequence variants that alter splicing. Indeed, I think that this tool provides an “association” between the variants and splicing, but not a formal proof of their connection. As the genomic and RNA samples usually come from different individuals with many confounding variables, the possibility that the splicing changes arise from factors other than the individual DNA mutations cannot be ruled out. In other words, changes in the levels of trans-acting splicing factors could account in part or totally for the splicing changes across samples. The statistical tests properly conducted in Veridical are designed to minimize such possibility but do not rule it out. In addition, the inherent noisy nature of RNAseq datasets also prompts for caution in the conclusions. To me, the direct proof that a DNA mutation changes splicing of its pre-mRNA can only be provided using minigenes and cell transfection (or in vitro splicing), in which the substrate sequences and cellular context are under almost absolute control. Indeed, the Veridical method is reminiscent of GWAS (Genome-Wide Association Studies), in which the genotype in the DNA, wild-type or mutant, is associated to its phenotype, such as normal versus disease (or other traits) in GWAS, or normal versus aberrant splicing in this study. Thus, for me Veridical provides strong associations – but not validations – between DNA mutations and their effects on splicing. As mentioned briefly at the beginning of Discussion, Veridical has built-in prediction tools to prioritize the mutations that are more likely to affect splicing, such as those mapping to splice sites. Even if other sources and tools are cited, a more extensive explanation of these components of Veridical would help the reader/user. 