Major concern: In table 2, there is a significant age difference between case and control, it should be a covariate. The precision of the p-value is not precise, I suggest the author try other tools for the statistical test to get higher precision. In table 3, the allele frequency of this polymorphism varied among populations. The allele frequency of G in controls matched with the Latino population frequency in gnomAD. The allele frequency of G in cases is lower than gnomAD Latino population frequency but higher than African and Finnish. So, the ancestry is very critical for such analysis. How did the author decide the ancestry of each sample? Even the cases were completely Latino descents, as the cohort is small, the confidence interval of T’s AF is large, it could be possible to result in a higher frequency of T with p-value 0.001. In table 3, no association was present in the genotypic association or allelic association using a chi-square test. They also showed in table 6. In table 4, the frequency in Ireland case and controls cohort reversed with the author’s cohort, they also mentioned in the text, how did the author to explain it? Minor concern: In the section “Frequency of ADIPOQ genotypes”, it said, “the homozygous T genotype is three times higher in healthy individuals”. How was it from? I saw three times heterozygous T/G, was it a typo? If yes, it was not significant at all. In table 2, I guess the age show median and interquartile range, then * should not be here. In table 4, there is a typo, G’s frequency 0.08 in healthy Ireland and Tunisia study. Several typos happened in table 5, the symbol is not consistent between case and control such as p-value in age, HOMA-R, and SBP. Table 5 has duplicated information as table 2, they may be able to optimize their presentation. Overall, I think the writing and the calculation are correct. However, the evidence they supplied cannot support their conclusions, such as no association between case and control and contrary finding among studies. +45TG is a polymorphism, the presence of its frequency in case and control could occasionally happen for such a small cohort. It is not convincing to draw the conclusion that the phenotypic difference resulted from +45 TG, this could be due to other common or rare variants. 