This is an interesting and unusual study that examines LV mass in steers after administration of zilpaterol (Z). Problems Background/Introduction Were all animals on “hormone growth promotant” to increase growth rates/skeletal muscle mass? What hormone? Is this hormone the more likely cause of increased skeletal muscle mass, rather than Z? Need to sort this out in the intro. A possible flaw is that one cannot sort out what deleterious effects are due to the hormone vs Z - ideally a third group on neither hormone or Z would be required. Not asking you to re-do the study, but this confounding element needs discussion. Methods PA Pressures . Not clear how the pulmonary pressures were measured. Please include: anesthesia, body position, how the pressure calibrations were made (for example, “0” at what level of the body and in what position. Statistics. I was frustrated that the authors did not simply provide the mean SD of each of the 2 groups with a simple Student’s t-test to examine for group differences. Please provide such data (and p values) for LV weight, LV/BW ratio, TnI, and pulmonary pressures (PAS, PAD.PA mean), HR Results The findings are: increased LV mass, and increased PA pressures (although a between-group simple comparison for significance is required to be certain of this; see #3). The TnI data are quite weak and likely showed no group difference and should be de-emphasized. If blood is available, CK-MB might provide helpful support if it shows a group difference. The absence of histological examination of the heart is a major omission in this study and should be emphasized in the discussion. Discussion The findings (if confirmed, see point 3,4) are increased LV weight and increased pulmonary pressure. The demonstration of heart failure or diastolic dysfunction was not established, so the authors should be more circumspect on their confidence that the animals have diastolic dysfunction. LV Assessment. Too bad that in-life echocardiography or diastolic arrest and measurement of LV wall thickness were not assessed. As it stands, we cannot be sure whether the LV mass increase was due to eccentric of concentric LVH, and whether there was a change in EF. This should be emphasized in the discussion. 