The very short manuscript reports homology modelling of the membrane protein, coupled with 'validation' by using vertical excitation energies computed with a QM/MM protocol. I think the work is interesting, particularly since the authors have made their data available, making it easier to others to build upon it. However, I have a number of concerns, many of which could be addressed simply by describing the results and their implications in a bit more detail. The first set of comments (1)-(3) in Cohen Farhi's report seem important to me. I think that in the paper, the authors use the position of the absorption peak to judge the validity of their structural model. So the precise mechanism of fluorescence does not matter, nor does proton transfer, nor does the fluorescence quantum yield. Rather these are ideas for future work. But it would do no harm to spell these things out a bit more. There is *very* little in the results section: 1 Figure, 1 Table, and 4 lines of text. Why not tell us a bit more? For example, the authors generate a homology model, but apart from showing us a cartoon structural picture of it, they don't say anything about it. How good was the sequence alignment? How long are the various helices? How well does this compare to various other transmembrane proteins of this type? How much did the other homology models differ from the preferred one, and from each other? Without this kind of analysis, this paper really just consists of a set of input and output files of homology modelling/sequence alignment. Still in the results section, the authors use SORCI+Q QM/MM vertical excitation energies computed at optimized structures to assess the quality of the homology models. This seems extremely naive to me. The different models return vertical excitation energies that differ by just over 1%, and are about 4% from experiment. I really don't think that this is a good basis for deciding that one of them is better than the others. There are just too many sources of error for making this a meaningful comparison. On the one hand, SORCI+Q with the basis set used will potentially have an error of several tenths of an eV. 0.2 eV is 10% of the excitation energy based on the experimental spectrum. Furthermore, the authors have computed just one vertical excitation energy for each model, at a structure derived by a rather minimal geometry optimization ('relaxation') protocol. The FWHM of the UV/Vis absorption peak of bacetriorhodopsin appears to be about 100nm, i.e. 15% of the band centre. I assume roughly the same is true here. In principle, even accepting that the starting point homology model is correct, and the SORCI Hamiltonian is exact, the QM/MM protocol used could return a vertical excitation energy 50 nm or so either side of the experimental peak. This just makes the criterion meaningless. There are other criteria for assessing the internal consistency of homology models. As I understand it, the philosophy of F1000Research is that papers can be published if they have some interest, and I think some people might find the homology modelling interesting, and the detailed structural models with the chromophore. So I'm happy for this to be indexed. But I think the QM/MM calculations are hugely over-interpreted, and recommend the authors consider revising this section, as well as adding some of the discussion I mention above.