The manuscript titled " Communicating behavioral genetics: Charting the limits of the genetic interpolation effect " provides a review of existing literature on how the effects of exposure to news articles about genetics may affect people’s beliefs in genetic determinism. The author also introduces theoretical constructs such as genetic attribution schema and the genetic interpolation hypothesis and finally presents the results of a brief study which seem to disprove such hypothesis. I think this is an interesting subject of research and the article has considerably improved from the previous version. The first section provides a good theoretical background and many useful references were added. The introduction of graphics also help clarify the genetic interpolation hypothesis and the study design. However, I think the article still requires some major revisions in order to be published. In particular, I think the introduction is too long and follows an odd structure. The literature presented in the first section seem to suggest that exposure to short news articles does not in fact affect people's belief in genetic determinism. Nonetheless, the next two paragraphs proceed to introduce the genetic interpolation as a valid hypothesis. I think a more logical structure would be: 1) Theoretical background for the genetic interpolation hypothesis . 2) Literature review: does previous research support the hypothesis or not and, if not, why the author still thinks this is line of research worth pursuing. In particular, if exposure to articles claiming that genes affect physical traits has no influence on the genetic attribution schema, why should we expect a different result for behavioural genetics articles? Is there any rationale behind this, beyond the 2014 paper by the same author? 3) Justification for the new study: how does the current study improves or expands upon previous research (i.e. it has greater statistical power and explores beliefs in the subfield of behavioural genetics). The author clearly state this at page 9 of the manuscript but I think it should come much earlier in the paper, possibly even in the abstract: “My experiment attempts to replicate this null-finding, this time deploying greater statistical power and using a paragraph about how genes impact on physical characteristics. Secondly, the experiment verifies if being exposed to a short paragraph about how genes can influence a complex social trait is sufficient to cause the genetic interpolation effect. [...] The third objective of my study is to explore whether clarifying that genes have a probabilistic influence impacts on the way people react to the stimulus.” On the same note, at the moment the abstract reads more like a truncated introduction and I think it could be rewritten in a more clear concise way. In particular, it should clearly state the null results of the study, rather than ambiguously ending with “I present the results of a survey experiment that was designed to test whether a simple, short paragraph about behavioral genetics is a powerful enough stimulus to cause the genetic interpolation effect.” without telling us whether it does or not in fact confirm the hypothesis. I also agree with previous reviewers that although the experimental design seems appropriate, the procedures could be described in more detailed. For example, how did the ‘survey firm’ contacted the participants? Was the participation purely voluntary or were the participants rewarded for their participation? How were the different stimuli presented and which software was used to collect and analyse the responses? I am also concerned about the fact that previous concerns of ‘straightlining’ are completely dropped in this version of the paper. Has the author somehow addressed these somehow? Finally, I have some concern regarding the choice of ‘voting’ as the behavioural trait claimed to have genetic influence. The mentioning of politics or voting may elicit strong feelings in participants which have nothing to do with their scientific beliefs. Therefore, I don’t think we can draw any general conclusions from the exposure to a single article on such a specific subject matter. I am all in favour of publishing negative findings but to confidently reject the genetic interpolation hypothesis it would be appropriate to test exposure to several different articles, claiming genetic influence on other types of complex behaviours, more or less believable (e.g. marriage, travelling, physical activity) and see if these also have no effect or participants' beliefs. At the very least this obvious limitation should be addressed in the Discussion. In conclusion, I think at the moment the paper reads as an odd mix of a very long and detailed literature review and a very brief - not incredibly well justified - experimental report. I think it would greatly benefit from additional empirical evidence (in order to firmly dismiss the genetic interpolation hypothesis) or it should be otherwise rewritten as a much shorter report, clearly describing the study as a replication of previous null-findings, rather than arguing at length for an hypothesis with little or none empirical support. Other comments: When discussing existing literature it would be better to summarize the conclusions, rather than stating the general goal of the study, so that readers do not need to look up the original reference. For example, instead of saying: “Some research also verifies whether participation in an introductory biology class or social science programs influences students’ views on the role of genetics”, clearly say if such studies found an influence or not. Similar to previous referees, I also find slightly confusing how sometimes the genetic interpolation hypothesis is presented as a somehow established phenomena, instead of an hypothesis formulated by the author. I think this should be more clearly stated throughout the paper. In fact, all the empirical studies cited by the author (Condit et al. 2001 1 and Lynch et al. 2008 2 ) show no evidence that message exposure produce deterministic beliefs. Also Smerecnik et al . 2010 3 found that when beliefs were changed these did not “extrapolate” to other diseases (I think the appropriate term here should be ‘generalize’). Then why does the author still think the genetic interpolation hypothesis is a viable hypothesis? The author claims that “these two studies would fail to detect more nuanced or subtle effects.” but that is a very subjective statement. Why exactly would they fail? The author should clearly discuss the limitations of previous studies (if there are any, beyond the statistical power) or otherwise present his findings as a replication of previous work, in the specific subfield of behavioural genetics. Again, this becomes clearer later in the paper but could be more explicitly stated to begin with. The discussion of the 2014 study by the same author is also too long and detailed. I think the main finding as clearly summarized at page 5: “news articles impact views about the influence of genetics when they cover research on behavioral genetics, but not when they cover research on medical genetics.” This is an important finding and should be mentioned earlier in the introduction as the rationale behind the current study. Minor comments: I think some of the data would be more readable as histogram plots, rather than numeric tables. I personally dislike the term “lay people” for historical/cultural reasons, why not simply ask “How do non-experts understand human genetics?” in the opening paragraph. Who exactly are these “intellectuals” mentioned throughout the paper? Maybe “public figures” or “other authors” would be more appropriate. If possible, please avoid using subjective terms such as ‘fascinating’ and ‘clever’. To say that “my 2014 paper offers an important empirical contribution” is slightly biased in my opinion. We clearly all believe that our contributions are important, but it is not up to us to decide that. 