Phinga Do and colleagues, with the leadership of Bhaskar Gurram, give a nice summary on 10 pediatric Crohn’s disease patients, refractory to anti-TNF biologic therapy, who were treated with ustekinumab. Such real life observations on the off label use of new biologic agents in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients are rather important. Their conclusions coincide with our subjective observation that pediatric IBD patients require a more intensified use of ustekinumab than the manufacturer’s guidance, in order to achieve drug levels that have been found to associate with improved outcomes in adult patients. There are a couple of recommendations, which may further improve the manuscript. In the Methods section, please clarify which laboratory and what methodology was used (especially for ustekinumab therapeutic drug monitoring) for the laboratory measurements discussed in the paper. Very early onset (VEO) IBD is more and more considered a disease category of its own within IBD. Consider excluding the VEO-IBD (patient 1) case from this cohort, or highlight the case as a variant. Excluding the brief 4 week course of patient 6 from the table and discussion is recommended. The treatment course was too short to make any conclusions. The comment below the figure is important to keep, however, to clarify that patient 6 was exposed to ustekinumab 2 years prior to the treatment course examined. In Table 1, or in a separate table, it would be useful to clarify the type of anti-TNF failure for each patient and each anti-TNF biologic, respectively. Primary non-response could be due to rapid antibody development or primary biological non-response. The same is true for secondary non-response (i.e. late development of antibodies, or immune pathway shift). It is fine to state unknown/clinical if level and antibody for the anti-TNF agent was not examined. In the results, consider omitting the complicated description of dosing, since Table 2 describes that in detail. Both figures are complicated, and the results those depict could be easily described and followed in writing within the Results section. Omitting the figures is recommended. The clinical outcomes are difficult to follow based on the separation of the patients by augmented ustekinumab treatment versus not. Separating the patients by responders vs. non-responders, and examining ustekinumab dosing differences between the 2 groups is recommended. If I am not mistaken, and even if the patient 1 (VEO-IBD) case is excluded, there were 7 responders (6 on intensified ustekinumab therapy) and 2 non-responders (all on conventional ustekinumab treatment). These results, if compared by Chi squared testing, significantly favor (p=0.0233) treatment intensification in order to achieve clinical response. There are parts of the discussion, which continue specific patient outcome descriptions. This should be moved to the Results section. The discussion should only draw general conclusions from what has been presented in the results and compare the findings to the existing literature. Include in the discussion, more recent similar studies, such as the ones below, and highlight the novelties of the case series presented within this work compared to other pediatric cohorts: Real World Experience With Ustekinumab in Children and Young Adults at a Tertiary Care Pediatric Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center. Dayan JR et al. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. (2019) 1 Ustekinumab for the treatment of refractory pediatric Crohn's disease: a single-center experience. Cohen A, Ahmed N, Sant'Anna A.. Intest Res. 2020 Apr 22. 2 