This work describes a case of prosthetic valve infective (IE) caused by Aerococcus urinae with fatal outcome. The number of case reports on this condition is increasing and it is not immediately obvious that another case with poor outcome is helpful. This case, however, has an important learning point in that a patient with prosthetic valve endocarditis, in resource-rich settings, must be treated in a centre where acute cardiac surgery can be performed or near such a centre. It is of less importance if the causative bacterium in this case were A. urinae or any other bacterium. I list my major concerns and minor points below: Major concerns 1. The prognosis of A. urinae IE is not poor. Many cases with fatal outcome have been published but in the only population-based survey 1 demonstrate a relatively favourable prognosis compared to other pathogens. The risk with case reports is a publication-bias where only dramatic cases are published. The case series should be quoted and is the only reliable source on information on A. urinae IE. A poor prognosis is claimed in the abstract, introduction and discussion. This claim must be modified based on the findings by Sunnerhagen et al . 2. A diagnosis of IE is established through the Dukes criteria, I suggest a reference to Li is given 2 . Symptoms and chest X-ray are irrelevant for the diagnostic process. Please modify introduction. 3. In the case description it is twice stated that the patient has sepsis. Sepsis-3 criteria are not fulfilled. Please rephrase. 4. The cultures grew A. urinae. How was the species determination performed? How many cultures? MIC for ampicillin and gentamycin should be given. 5. It is claimed that TEE demonstrates a “moderate aortic regurgitation due to a large mobile vegetation”. It is important if the regurgitation was paravalvular or through the valves. Maximum size of the vegetation is also crucial since this is important for establishing the indication for operation. Left ventricular function should also be commented on as well as if there were signs of vegetations on the pacemaker cable. 6. It is claimed that ampi+genta was commenced according to local guidelines. For which bacterial species are these guidelines meant. The use of aminoglycosides in this condition is controversial 1 . 7. How was “progressive aortic regurgitation verified? Could pacemaker failure have played a role? 8. Why was the patient not moved for emergency surgery when he deteriorated? This seem like an avoidable fatality! 9. In the discussion it is claimed that there are only 20 reports. This is not true 1 . Cases up until 2015 are summarized in a review 3 . 10. Surgical intervention is claimed to be common in the discussion with a quote to Wang. Please read and quote Sunnerhagen instead 1 . Surgery is relatively rarely needed. 11. “Large persistent vegetation” is claimed as an indication for surgery. Large is enough. 12 “The presence of vegetation on the valve created a consistent source of bacteria that could embolize and can serve as a source of sepsis.” This statement has nothing to do with the current case and should be omitted. 13 “The main problem is current diagnostic testing for microorganisms– whereas 16s sequencing would be the most time-efficient method, it’s rarely done, as the expertise is limited and costs… and so on” This is irrelevant for the case since the reason to operate is not dependent on microbiological diagnostics. Irrespective of the causative pathogen this patient would have been saved by timely heart surgery. 14. The claim “In conclusion, Aerococcus urinae used to be a rare cause of IE but rates have been increasing significantly within the last 10 years.” Lacks support and should be deleted. A. urinae has been increasingly REPORTED as a cause of IE but incidence is likely unchanged. 15. In discussing Duke criteria in the case presentation one must keep in mind that A. urinae in 2/2 cultures (4/4 bottles) only fulfill Duke criteria if the cultures were taken with Minor comments 1. I suggest another title. Something like “fatal case of A. urinae prosthetic valve endocrditis.” 2. Why mention HACEK in the abstract? Those organisms are exceedingly rare and for example much less common than betaheamolytic strep. 3. In case presentation spell out JVD. 4. “Stable haemoglobin”- what is meant. Are the authors referring to repeated measurements? 