Title and Abstract: This is fine. I have some comments on the comparisons and causality below that the authors should consider. Article content/ Conclusions: The article is well written and overall clearly structured. Using the PERMA model is a good addition. The specific research questions are very helpful in communicating the research. Nevertheless I have picked up two issues that are worth considering, and a few minor comments. I wasn’t entirely convinced by the research question looking at managers’ perception of volunteer well-being. Why is it important that these correspond (p. 3)? Even if it is important, as far as I understand, the comparison is not straightforward. The volunteers rated by the managers are not the same people as rate their own well-being, are they? So the conclusion of non-correspondence is problematic, if you’re comparing the rated/perceived well-being of *different* people. My second issue is around the language/interpretation in the article, specifically in the Implications section. You seem to assume these are causal effects i.e. the volunteering causes people’s improved well-being (and therefore it should be used more widely). But it’s not quite that straightforward, as you haven’t allocated people to different activities so there might be other differences between people who walk vs. volunteer for example, that could account for any effects you find. You can only make strong inferences about causality when you use a proper experimental research design. It would be good to note this in the discussion. (I think only the Wyles et al. article has tried this in the volunteering literature). You mention also that choice is important, which is a related consideration. This is where recommendations are a bit tricky, because you can’t (by definition) force people to ‘volunteer’ even it is good for them, and there may be selection effects that mean happier / healthier people are also the ones who do environmental volunteering. This is not a big problem but I feel should be acknowledged. Minor points: I think a lot of space is dedicated to the different factor analyses (on pages 7-11) to establish questionnaire structure. While this is important and good practice it is not linked to any of the main research questions. Therefore I was wondering if (some of) this should be presented in an Appendix rather than the main text, as it distracts from the key questions and findings. On p. 18 literature on the amount of time spent volunteering is reviewed but this all seems to be published in gerontology journals so I’m assuming uses older samples. Please add in the text if that’s the case. Data: Links to raw data are provided.