The paper describes a new package (scRepertoire) of functions for the analysis of clonality in single cell experiments in the R analytical environment. While it is true, as it is claimed, that 'a gap exists in the processing of V(D)J sequencing, descriptive statistics, clonal comparisons, and repertoire diversity with the current SCS R packages', nonetheless few packages already exist for the analysis of clonality in bulk samples (such as the inspiring package tcR). From the text it is not immediately clear why there is the need for a brand new package rather than a simpler 'wrapper' to bridge the gap between single cell based data and existing analytical packages. Although package functionalities are clearly illustrated in the paper, software documentation could be improved: behaviour of some functions is not immediately clear without studying the code directly (e.g. the way multi-chains clonotypes are treated by combineContigs()). Similar to its inspiring package (tcR) and leveraging on the vegan package, scRepertoire implements different measures for diversity. Nonetheless, it has been suggested that conventional diversity measures fail to describe properly clonotype distributions and several complementary methods have been proposed like the Recon package by Kaplinsky 1 and Arnaout 1 or Startrac package by Zhang and colleagues 2 . Interaction with such packages would greatly increase scRepertoire analytical effectiveness. Similarly, the function abundanceContig(), especially in the unscaled form, is of little use per se. Interestingly, recent methods have been proposed to for the comparative analysis of clone size distributions 3 and could be easily incorporated into scRepertoire adding considerable power to it (though assessment of required numerosity should be introduced). The package claims to be designed both for TCR and BCR analysis but definition of clonality in B cells is slightly different than in T cells due to isotype switch and somatic hypermutation phenomena following activation. Therefore clonotype identity between two cells should be defined differently between BCR and TCR analysis. Concerning overlap, beside the nice representation as a heatmap, it could be useful to have the chance to output the matrix itself rather than the plot only. 10x vdj methods occasionally fails to reconstruct complete clonotypes or it reconstructs putatively aberrant clonotypes (clonotypes with multiple beta chains). Currently scRepertoire does not allow to filter for specific chain compositions but such feature would be worth adding, together with a graphical visualization of relative frequencies of chain composition across clonotypes. Paired 10x gene expression profile and vdj scoped analysis are not guaranteed to reconstruct the information for the exact same pool of barcodes, thus the combineSeurat() function could be improved by allowing to specify whether an inner or Seurat-sided joining is to be performed and ensuring that the joining is performed correctly. 