Diaz-Mejia et al have produced a nice research article on assessing methods for assigning cluster labels to cell clusters from scRNA-seq. I think this work is of great importance, but I felt that some crucial cluster labelling methods were not compared. I hope the authors can update the article with some of the suggestions: The biggest suggestion for improvement is the choice of methods that the authors compare. The authors chose to adapt 4 methods originally developed for bulk RNA-seq in order to label clusters. While their approach is commendable, none of their adapted methods reflect the current standard practice in the field. Additionally, their claim that methods for cluster labelling in scRNA-seq are too immature or implemented as web-servers is not true. The website scRNA-tools.org lists 29 methods in this category. Many of these methods, such as scMCA, MetaNeighbour and scmap, are well-established and frequently used in the field. Furthermore, many of these methods recommend using annotated scRNA-seq datasets as references instead of bulk data. Hence, it would be great if the authors could include some of these tools in their analysis. I am confused as to which classifier parameter was varied in order to generate the ROCs. Were these comparable across the different methods? It would be interesting to see what the effect of varying the cluster resolution is to the ability of the methods to accurately label the populations. Do you obtain more diverse labelling when there are more clusters? LM22 is a great reference dataset, but recently a new dataset has become openly accessible. This dataset, generated by Monaco et al 1 , characterizes 29 human immune cell types by RNA-seq and flow cytometry. It would be interesting to see if the use of this dataset leads to an improvement. I think it would be helpful for the reader if the authors could summarize their results. The sheer number of comparisons made, means that the reader can feel overwhelmed at the end. A figure summarizing the various results for each method in each dataset could help clarify the message. Thank you for making your code publicly available. 