 The title is appropriate, and the abstract represents a suitable summary of the work. Although the design and methodology of the calculation are appropriate for the subject under study, some aspect of the calculation could have been explained in greater detail. This is discussed in greater detail in the report below. The conclusions are justified on the basis of the results obtained in the study. Enough information has been provided to replicate the calculations. The authors provide a novel method to validate protein structures based on the network properties of non-bonded side chain contacts within proteins. The method could find extensive application in the structural validation of both experimentally determined protein structures by x-ray crystallography, or modeled structures. Thus as a validation tool it could prove to be an extremely valuable addition to other existing methods. The authors have also installed a web server, thus making the facility available to a wide cross section of potential users. The success of any validation method depends on the scoring (or ranking) scheme adopted to sort structures based on some criteria. Unfortunately, the details regarding the ranking scheme are extremely terse or assume that the reader will be conversant with the details of support vector machines (SVM) and the relevant software (LibSVM). That need not be the case, as potentially work such as this should have a wide appeal. Although the authors do cite previous work, they could discuss this in somewhat greater detail. What do the terms or options used in the sentence Specifically, for model generation, L2-regularized L2-loss ranking support vector machine solver and cost value (c) equal to 2 was used ., actually signify? Why was the specific option (s8) chosen? The authors could also compare their methodology with currently available validation packages such as Procheck or Molprobity on a small database consisting of native protein and decoys. Given the fact that experimentally determined erroneous structures occasionally seep through the currently available validation filters, this method could provide crucial information in error detection, where other methods consistently fail.