Thank you for responding to my review The draft is improved. I however feel a number of areas were not addressed. For example multiple grammatical errors still exist and I recommend that a native English speaker reviews the final paper. In addition the authors in some areas responded to my comments instead of integrating them into the paper e.g defining indicators was not added to the method section. I still find some grammatical errors in the manuscript. For example in the Introduction: “In recent years, the Vietnam Government has performed many solutions to respond the HIV epidemic” This statement would better read “ In recent years the Government has implemented / or put in place multiple interventions / or has put in place in multiple strategies to respond to the epidemic.” Methods section Do no start statements with abbreviations ... for example ... OPCs met the following criteria.. Instead write out OPCs in full.. Or statements starting with “EWI ...... please write this in full. Secondly, the statement on the criteria would read better ... for example “Outpatient clinics included in the sampling included rural and urban health facilities, clinics providing treatment to adults and children and clinics under the National target programs, those supported by the Global Fund and President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) funding. (authors can use their own words however) Results section I still find this section deficient in the manner it is written. 4 EWIs were assessed Data for the 4 EWI should be presented consecutively and results summarized in the narrative. As currently presented the reader would have to download the results to understand what proportion of facilities met the target. In addition, the abstract talks about patients meeting targets, while results section talks about facilities only. The authors need to decide what to present and ensure consistency between abstract and results section. Discussion Results in the discussion should have been captured in the results section instead of discussion. The discussion should focus on elaborating what results mean, what have other similar studies observed, what are the implications of findings