This well-written article examines the financial impact that changes to the US tax code would have on graduate students who receive paid tuition as a benefit. This is a timely and important topic being discussed by graduate students and those involved with graduate education across the country. While the final, passed tax bill did not include taxation of graduate student tuition benefits, this study will provide useful data for demonstrating the significant financial burden such a change would levy upon graduate students if it comes up for discussion in the future. A few specific comments and suggestions. As a technical point, the term “tuition reduction” is used to describe the benefit that graduate students would potentially no longer be able to deduct. However, in biomedical graduate programs that I am familiar with, the grad student tuition is not waived or reduced, but paid on behalf of the graduate student by their department or thesis lab. This may be what the authors meant by this term, but this should be clarified to avoid confusion. For estimation of “average” graduate student salaries, it is unclear if this is for graduate students of all disciplines or for students from only STEM disciplines, which tend to have higher stipend levels. The $30,603 average seems high for an average inclusive of all graduate students independent of discipline. Please define “TTO” the first time it is used. I’m not familiar with the term “sustaining fees”. I’m deducing that this means the student did not have to pay tuition for that year for some reason, but this should be defined explicitly in the text, especially because it has a big influence on the results in Table/Figure 1. While individual funding structures for graduate students can vary widely from discipline to discipline (and even year to year as the data from Fig 1 indicates for individual students), the analysis in Figure 3 is particularly useful for showing the taxation impact on graduate students overall as a result of a taxation plan that includes taxation of tuition benefits. 