Paragangliomas are neoplasms arising from extra-adrenal chromaffin tissue. It frequently cause symptoms by overproduction of catecholamines and carry risk of hypertension during surgery and post –excision, patient may develop hemodynamic insatiability [1]. Carotid body tumor is a slow-growing neoplasm, usually localized at the bifurcation of the common carotid artery represent most commonly encountered are head and neck paragangliomas, accounting for 60–78% [2]. It is usually benign and rarely malignant and accounts for about 0.5% of all head and neck tumors [2]. In 1971, Shamblin et al . classified carotid body tumor into three classes: in Class I tumor is small and surgically resectable, Class II includes adherent tumor, which surrounding the carotid vessels partially, resection is considered as technically more difficult, and class III, the size of the tumor is large ie more than 5 cm and usually completely encases the carotid vessels, resection is considered very difficult, and always carry risk of the cerebral circulation interruption always [3]. DSA is considered as important imaging modality of choice for diagnosis as clearly defines, epicentre of tumor, location, size and encasement of vessel branches in tumor and aid in aiding transarterial embolization therapy which reduces intraoperative blood loss. However, it carry limitation poor visualization of adherence of the tumor mass to the peripheral tissues, cerebral embolism causing ischemic stroke and vascular injury are also reported and even risk cardiac asystole with carotid body hypersensitivity. However DSA of cerebral vessels including cross circulation is essential if needed of cerebral vessel revascularization surgery is required [4]. So, currently, computed tomography scan, CT angiography and MRI are preffered routinely . Surgery is preferred treatment modality and chief concern s include highly vascular mass, dense adherence to the vagus nerve. Hua et al observed microneurosurgical technique is said in dissection. And prevent vascular and cranial nerve injury [1]. Radiotherapy is an alternative management option for patients with co-morbid illness or who may not tolerate the surgery, presence of metastasis subsequent to surgery complications include otitis externa, otitis media, osteoradionecrosis, cranial nerve lesion and brain injury [5]. Munakomi and neuroanesthesia team should be commended for successful surgery, perioperative hemodynamic adequate control with good outcome. 