 General comments MethylExtract is a new tool that implements several QC related steps on already aligned Bisulfite-Seq data. This includes the deduplication of clonal reads, filtering based on base call quality, identification of potential bisulfite conversion errors and most notably the detection of single nucleotide variants (SNVs) that would affect methylation calls, the latter of which is until now only being performed by Bis-SNP. After reading the documentation it was straight forward to set MethylExtract off, and it ran to completion in an acceptable time frame (~1d 7h for one lane of HiSeq data aligned against the human genome using Bismark). I liked that the deduplication tool that would potentially allow reads aligning to the same position in the genome to pass if they contain SNVs and thus originate from two distinct alleles (even though it is probably questionable whether one would expect to see this sort of reads a lot for large eukaryotic genomes at moderate read depth such as 15x). Even though I've got a few questions about how certain things are handled or documented in the current implementation of MethylExtract, I was quite impressed at how easy it was to get hold of SNV information using just one command. I am sure MethylExtract will prove a useful tool in the genuine analysis of bisulfite data. Handling paired-end alignments The only time I found mention of paired-end reads was in the explanation of the deduplication option 'delDup' in the MethylExtract Manual. One can further see that the options 'tagW' and 'tagC' for FLAG values of reads aligning to the Watson and Crick strands default to 0 and 16, respectively, which are standard FLAG values for forward or reverse mapping single-end reads. If MethylExtract currently only handles single-end experiments this is fair enough, even though it would be a serious limitation seeing that most data we generate is in fact paired-end data. Paired-end reads will have at least four different FLAG values, so it is unclear if and how one would specify these? Would the SNV detection would still work with paired-end reads? Are there options to remove overlapping parts in the reads? In any case, I think paired-end reads should be documented better, both in the manuscript and the manual. Handling SNV positions If I understood it correctly, CpG positions with a homozygous C to T SNV are eliminated by MethylExtract before reaching the final methylation output, but does this also happen for heterozygous loci? The manual mentions: "(v) SNV can be detected and removed" - can they or are they? It seems that MethylExtract reports only a single position (presumably the most 5' one?) for cytosines in CG or CHG context (this could also be mentioned in the manual). Are symmetrical cytosine positions completely eliminated from the output if SNVs are detected on at least one strand? Similarly, is the context of a cytosine determined purely by the genomic sequence or would a homozygous SNV effectively also change a C's context (e.g. would an A to G SNV from 'CAG' to 'CGG' change the context from CHG to CG?). I would find it useful to read some more information on how these cases are dealt with, maybe in the User Guide? Finally, to make it a bit more user-friendly I would welcome an option to include or exclude positions from the output specifically that were detected as homozygous or heterozygous SNVs. M-bias MethylExtract addresses several important aspects affecting the accuracy of BS-Seq experiments, however it doesn't mention the issue of methylation bias (M-bias) in the reads (described in Hansen et al., 2012 ). M-bias may have several causes, such as 5' bisulfite conversion failure (described in BSeQC - Lin et al., 2013 ), fill-in bias during library construction which is especially pronounced for paired-end reads (as an example see read 2 in this report: http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/bismark/PE_report.html ) or other technical reasons (e.g. PBAT libraries, an example report is available here: http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/bismark/SE_report.html ). Are there any plans to take M-bias into consideration in future versions of MethylExtract? 5' end trimming Both the manuscript and the MethylExtract manual mention that there is an option to ignore bases at the 5' end of reads, e.g. "3 bp for the MspI restriction sites of reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) protocol". While the option is certainly useful, e.g. for the removal of M-bias in the reads, it should be noted that for standard (= directional) RRBS libraries the first 3bp should reflect the true genomic methylation state of the MspI site and do not have to be ignored. The situation is somewhat different for non-directional reads or when reading through filled-in positions at the 3' end of reads. We have tried to illustrate this in a bit more detail in this brief RRBS guide ( http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/bismark/RRBS_Guide.pdf ). Very minor The version of MethylExtract hosted on zenodo.org which I downloaded first was outdated (v1.3) and failed to run at some point. The latest version from http://bioinfo2.ugr.es/MethylExtract/ (v1.4) worked fine.