This study addresses an important topic as depression during the perinatal period is every common and have adverse impact on the women, the child and the entire family especially in LMICs. However, I have many reservations about the justification, the study design, the data collection and analysis Introduction There is need to show that a review of the literature from SSA has been carried out and the gap in the knowledge had been identified which this present work is trying to fill. See below a list of published works I could find: Green EP, Tuli H, Kwobah E, Menya D, Chesire I, Schmidt C. Developing and validating a perinatal depression screening tool in Kenya blending Western criteria with local idioms: A mixed methods study. Journal of affective disorders. 2018 Mar 1;228:49-59 1 . Ongeri L, Otieno P, Mbui J, Juma E, Mathai M. Antepartum risk factors for postpartum depression: a follow up study among urban women living in Nairobi, Kenya. J Preg Child Health. 2016;3(288):2 2 . Osok J, Kigamwa P, Vander Stoep A, Huang KY, Kumar M. Depression and its psychosocial risk factors in pregnant Kenyan adolescents: a cross-sectional study in a community health Centre of Nairobi. BMC psychiatry. 2018 Dec;18(1):136 3 . Osok J, Kigamwa P, Huang KY, Grote N, Kumar M. Adversities and mental health needs of pregnant adolescents in Kenya: identifying interpersonal, practical, and cultural barriers to care. BMC women's health. 2018 Dec 1;18(1):96 4 . Velloza J, Njoroge J, Ngure K, Thuo N, Kiptinness C, Momanyi R, Ayub S, Gakuo S, Mugo N, Simoni J, Heffron R. Cognitive testing of the PHQ-9 for depression screening among pregnant and postpartum women in Kenya. BMC psychiatry. 2020 Dec 1;20(1):31 5 . Methods The authors described the Coast Provincial General Hospital (CPGH) as a “level five” public health facility located in Mombasa County, Kenya. They need to describe what this means to the reading public. The authors also need to explain why the choice of a referral hospital where only the complicated cases (needing doctors attention) are referred. It is expected that majority of the deliveries in Kenya will be via the primary health facilities with attending midwives. The choice of a level 5 facility will definitely bias the outcome The procedure did not state how the EPDS was administered. Was it self administered or interviewer administered? What of non-literate women, how were they catered for? Also how valid is the EPDS amongst Kenyan women population? It should be noted that a rate of 20% positive (34/170) was obtained in this study. Sample size: A detailed sample size formulae was provided but not how the sample size of 34 cases in the index arm was obtained. This number I think is definitely too low and do not have enough power to make any prediction for a data that is focused on determinants and significantly associated factors in a population Study design: It was not clear how the participants were selected into cases and control. Given that the authors said the EPDS was completed in the triage room before the routine antenatal services, were the individual scores collated there and then before asking them to complete the rest of the questionnaire or did they all completed the questionnaire no matter what they score? There is a concern that the design of this study may not follow the case-control design Results Why was P≤0.2 chosen as the level of significance during the univariate analysis? The very wide Confidence interval in Table 4 again gives cause for concern regarding the sample size and the power of the study 