I have the luxury of reading this article after revisions based on two thorough reviews, both of which raise important points and make excellent suggestions for improvement. The new version of the article has been substantively revised in response to these reviews. The present version of the article, while highly speculative, does raise some interesting and important issues and starts a conversation that will generate additional testing and data collection. Several points are worth discussing in more detail. I appreciate that the authors are much more clear in the revised article that chronic inflammation in the Tsimane is not protective against NCDs and instead that it is a result of the absence of certain NCD risk factors that are common in other populations. My research group has published Shuar CRP data cited in the article as well as comparative immune studies of Tsimane and Shuar. A key point that’s mentioned in the present article yet not elaborated on here or really elsewhere is the divergent CRP values in Shuar and Tsimane despite both being subsistence-based populations in the Amazon. It seems likely that differences in disease ecology between the two groups, especially related to helminths, influences inflammatory profile and other immune differences. Although baseline CRP is low among Shuar, they do experience acute CRP elevations in response to various challenges. It would be useful to look at helminth species (extent of helminth coinfection) and intensity in each of the populations coupled with immune work to see the extent to which chronically elevated inflammation is reflective of repeated or constant helminth infections. Clearly more work needs to be done to identify underlying contributors to inflammation in these types of populations, and their contribution to disease risk. I appreciate that this article drives that conversation forward. The Eifel Studies, while interesting and potentially useful for unraveling contributions to inflammation, are very brief in duration and with very small sample sizes. The studies need to be of longer duration to fully understand the time-course of the various biomarkers (it’s impossible to interpret changes in a small sample in only 4 days), as well as need to include measurement of more variables of interest. I think I would feel more comfortable if the authors made it more clear that these studies are very preliminary. And of course then make plans for additional research! As for the proposed explanations, while highly speculative, they do advance the conversation and potentially lead to testable hypotheses that can be examined using new data collected in studies like those of Eifel as well as in populations like the Tsimane and Shuar. 