This study investigates the use of a smart phone as a wearable mobility monitoring system. However, it is of moderate quality and there are a number of issues that warrant attention for the reader. The study could have been simplified, shortened and presented in a more clear and concise manner. Instead it is often vague and illogical in most parts, and introduces concepts/methods that are unsuitable. In brief: The title should make reference to the fact that it is a feasibility / proof of concept study. Throughout the manuscript several unsubstantiated claims are made without any real justification. Introduction : The authors remark that several video-sensor systems have been used in the past, with various limitations. While this study uses a smart phone as the system, the same limitations were encountered with no insight as to how those limitations may be overcome to progress this type of monitoring. Materials and Methods : This section is poorly written. For example the authors introduce GPS and later say it wasnt used. Therefore the text can be misleading in parts and could have been reduced and made concise and easier to read. A flow diagram of the data processing and activity recognition used from previous work would have been useful to explain the flow. Accelerometer features : Use of the inclination angle distinguished sitting from standing - this is true for their slim (66kg) young adults - how successful do the authors think the method will be for older and/or heavier subjects? How did the authors define sitting, i.e. what was the trunk angle? Would the method work if the participants were sat upright with a trunk orientation similar to standing? Test procedure : The evaluators were not blinded during video analysis. This is not discussed as a (major) limitation: bias (favoring correct classification) may have been introduced during classification. Some of the activities performed by the participants seems a bit arbitrary in what is basically a feasibility study. With a device worn on the hip, its not feasible to detect brushing teeth or combing hair (as shown by poor sensitivity values) nor is it worthwhile, at this stage. (brushing occurred outside video field - discussion). It would have been more suitable to concentrate on physical capability tasks relating to whole body movement. Results : "Better classification results were achieved when using acceleration and video" - of course as video was manually analysed. Periods of video capture hinders accelerometer logging - how is this system likely to be useful in the example of a postural transition? For example: this limits the use within pathology and more specifically falls, where most falls can occur during sitting to standing transition. Use of the acceleration data is key to detecting a transition and subsequent fall. It appears that the accelerometer data could distinguish very little of the activities with manual video observations proving key and the only suitable means to distinguish tasks. Discussion : In a few instances the authors refer to "sounds" - perhaps this might be a better tool to help distinguish activities in an automated system? 