I have tried this piece of software and it does appear to do what it says and running the software was not too difficult. The link to the software on Zenodo in the Software Availability section ( Zenodo: wigExplorer, a BioJS component to visualise wig data, doi:10.5281/zenodo.77218 ) seems a bit pointless as the download bundle requires a large number of dependencies which are not included and for which paths have been hardcoded to local machine locations. The authors should also include either a tag or a commit hash so that the version of the software in the download bundle can be identified in GitHub. I ran the software from a GitHub checkout - here all the paths given in the documentation assume a specific configuration of directories (which is different from that of the GitHub repository). None of this is a show stopper, but it does make me rather doubt the validity of the statement: "Like any other BioJS component, wigExplorer requires little technical knowledge for its utilisation." The article is, essentially, an advert with relatively little technical content. This is appropriate; there is little point including, for example, precise instructions for the use of wigExplorer as this article will be checkpointed and the code will become out of date. I would however have liked a bit more information on the expected performance of the software: for instance, how big a chromosome can it visualize? How manipulable is the visualisation? The writing in the article is okay, but there are a few parts which could do with improvement. For example, in the first paragraph of the Introduction section, the statement "biological web applications are usually implemented with no standard reutilisation guidelines in mind, hence BioJS was developed" I am not at all sure what "reutilisation guidelines" means with respect to code base. Do the authors just mean a defined and documented API? In which case, they should probably say this. There are also a couple of places which could do with simplification. In the second paragraph of the Introduction section:"To our knowledge, this is the first modular component to visualise wig data that complies with BioJS standards." This statement could be seen as a caveat, and I think the authors could risk saying "This is the only BioJS component to show wig data". Also in the second paragraph of the Application section the statement "We are aware that third party browsers are also using wigExplorer ." could perhaps be simplified to "Third party browsers are also using wigExplorer ".