This paper describes a limited analysis of eye symptoms in a small group of traffic police officers in Kathmandu, Nepal. Despite the limitations of the cross-sectional set-up and limited resources, this analysis merits publication because of the small volume of studies on ophthalmological effects of air pollution and the health effects of air pollution in non-western countries with extremely high air pollution exposures. The article would benefit from a brief description of concentrations of other common (gaseous or solid) air pollutants (NO2, CO, BC) during August 2017 and annual averages in the previous years in Kathmandu if available. The total number of questions in the OSDI questionnaire could be mentioned to facilitate the interpretation of the formula used. The description of the Schirmer I test is too brief to be easily understood by air pollution scientists who are no experts in ophthalmology. To consider only values 5 mm as abnormal seems to be a very strict definition e.g. compared to results presented by Karampatakis et al. 1 . Based on RE LE combined the % of abnormal tests is less than 15% (not 17%). Also there is no explanation about the OSDI of the 9% of participants that did not undergo a Schirmer I test, this could potentially lead to biased results. In Figure 1 the categories of Mild (23%) and Moderate (20%) seem to have been mixed up. The authors should double check whether this also happened with other categorizations (not available from the provided data) and repeat the statistical analysis if necessary. By providing more original (not categorized) data reanalysis of the data by other researchers would also be facilitated. The methods section does not mention that a paired t-test was used to compare results of the Schirmers I test for RE and LE. Because of the cross-sectional set-up of the study it would be more prudent to avoid the word ‘implies’ in the discussion and instead use ‘suggests’. The authors provide a good assessment of some of the limitations/weaknesses of their study. Including the lack of a control group, lack of personal/detailed exposure data or on groups with a different level of exposure and lack of more sophisticated eye tests. The inherent limitations of the cross-sectional set-up should also be mentioned. The study population of traffic police officers could perhaps better be characterized as a ‘more exposed’ population instead of ‘vulnerable’ unless there would be a reason why these adults would be more vulnerable than other population groups. With respect to their recommendation of wearing sunglasses the authors should provide a reference to a source providing evidence for the benefits of such an intervention. Were the traffic police officers questioned on the frequency of use of sunglasses during work? Some minor language issues could be corrected. 