This is a thought-provoking piece advocating for a quasi-governmental body that uses evidence-based principles to ensure the efficient, cost-effective, and equitable use of donor funds for global health programming directed at low-and-middle income countries. The authors have a wealth of experience in managing the use of international aid monies in the developing world, and been heavily involved in training and implementation of health technology methods and decision support techniques in those settings. The authors' work with iDSI is instructive, but readers will benefit from specific examples of the change brought about the organization's activities. For example, has an evaluation been performed to compare decision-making processes before and after an iDSI "intervention" in India, Ghana, etc.? I've been recently made aware of an "affordable cancer drugs list" for India - was this an iDSI effort and how has its performance contrasted with prior approaches? Specific comments are also provided below: Abstract: just a minor grammatical correction. "...is channeled" should be "are channeled." Pg 3, column 1, paragraph 3: Proposed cuts to USAID and UK commitments certainly reflect skepticism around return-on-investment, but they also likely reflect the presence of nationalist politics, and this should be mentioned. Pg 3, column 2, paragraph 3: This seems an opportune place to introduce budgetary impact analysis as a companion effort to cost-effectiveness and related efforts. While successful empiric approaches to setting WTP thresholds will explicitly consider health budgets, BIA can be flexibly defined to address contingencies common in the developing world (e.g., regime change, changes in aid vs. domestic funding balance, etc.) Pg 4, column 1, paragraph 4: Scope challenges are appropriately noted, and I agree that health spending is a natural starting point. However, it would be useful to see some context around spending challenges across sectors in the developing vs. developed world. Page 5, column 1, paragraph 1: It's very difficult for me disentangle the very real data needs mentioned from the reality of trying to collect data in these settings. An example of a data need that was simply and efficiently addressed in an LMIC would be helpful. The example of NICE's impact is less relevant for me given the resources available in the UK. Page 5, column 2, paragraph 3: It may be premature to do this, but ROI is both about paying for and sustaining NIDE's activities AND reducing wasteful aid spending. Some estimate of wasteful spending in the UK, and what percentage reduction would essentially pay for NIDE and increase access to health services in some number of countries would be helpful, even if back-of-the envelope. 