In "Enhancing gene set enrichment using networks" the author describes a pipeline to visualize the gene sets associated with a particular differential-expression analysis as a network. In this network connections between gene sets are based on common/shared gene annotations. The paper is clearly written and the decisions made in the pipeline are reasonable. There are only a few points on which I would like to see more discussion: In the introduction the authors mention the Jaccard index as a similarity measure (alongside coexpression of genes in WGCNA). There are many similarity measures: hamming distance, cosine similarity, Fisher's exact test, as well as many other measures for continuous variables that can easily be adapted to binary variables. Which one of these is used to construct the gene-set network could impact the structure of the network. The pros and cons of using the Jaccard index as well as other similarity measures warrants more discussion (e.g. some may better capture relationships between terms with many gene annotations, and some may better capture relationships between terms with fewer gene annotations). GO terms are structured as a DAG, with genes annotated to child terms propagating to parent terms. This underlying structure will impact the structure of the similarity network between GO terms, and is worth pointing out in the manuscript. In the introduction, the authors state "the clusters can be categorized as....medium and large or dense and loose clusters". The author should either include more discussion about how these can be quantified (i.e. what is a "medium" cluster) or they should illustrate the quantification of these categories in their example. The equation “J=NumberofcommongenesNumberofallgenes” looks mis-formatted. It also would be better presented as: “J = intersect(set A, set B)/union(set A, set B)”. The authors should also consider the structure of a general gene-set network (one not restricted to gene-sets associated with differentially-expressed genes). It is possible that the singletons/doublets that the authors remove may simply come from a sparser area of this "general" gene-set network (and the clusters a denser area), in which case the pruning step is removing relevant results (while retaining less informative ones that might be picked up by chance). In naming the clusters, I would suggest normalizing the number of instances of a word against its frequency in the entire database. For example "cell" is a much more common word in KEGG/GO term names than "glycolosis". From a biological point of view, if all the terms that contain "glycolosis" are in the same cluster (even if it’s only 1-2 terms), this is likely much more interesting to highlight than if "cell" appears frequently in that cluster (but also in many other terms outside of the cluster). Do the authors have any thoughts about how to interpret clusters with "missing titles" (no word appearing more than once)? Minor comments: Be sure to spell out the GO and KEGG acronym for first usage. Some of the longer names in Figure 5 appear truncated (e.g. "cell death signalling via"). 