The authors of this systematic review protocol aim to map the burden and risk factors for snakebite in the Indian context. To do so, they have composed two separate review questions: one on the incidence and prevalence of snakebite, the other one on the risk factors that may contribute to the burden of snakebite. A systematic review of the existing literature seems an appropriate method to reach their objectives. The authors have reported their work appropriately according to the PRISMA-P checklist. However, several suggestions for improving/clarifying the reporting of their work are made below, especially regarding synthesizing their findings. The authors include as datasets a completed PRISMA-P checklist and a search string to search for paper in Ovid Medline. These datasets are in my opinion accessible and useable. Specific points for consideration regarding the reporting of the methods provided: 1) Page 4 - Eligibility criteria for risk factors for snakebite in India:Can you please elaborate as to why risk modelling studies are not within scope of this systematic review? The scope of this review is as I understood broad, summarizing all the evidence on burden and risk factors for snakebite. To my understanding, risk modelling studies may contribute to the scope as set by the authors. 2) Dataset search strategy: I would search for "envenom*" instead of "envenomation*". This will make sure you also find records that use the term "snake envenoming" instead of "snake envenomation". 3) Page 5 - Synthesis methods for evidence synthesis on the burden of snakebite in India: Though I agree it may be misleading to pool data from different diverse regions into one national summary, it may be worthwhile to consider whether combining findings from studies from the same (or similar) regions is possible. Therefore I’m not sure whether a priori excluding the possibility of a meta-analysis for incidence/prevalence data is the best option here. 4) Page 5 - Synthesis methods for evidence synthesis of risk factors for snakebite in India: It is generally not advisable to choose the type of meta-analysis method (fixed or random) a posteriori, based on the observed level of heterogeneity (JBI Handbook section 5.5.8.2 Cochrane Handbook section 10.10.4.1 1 ). Rather, one should consider the underlying assumptions of the two models and decide a priori which method would likely be the most appropriate in relation to the expected type of data. Please address this issue. 5) Page 5 - Synthesis of results: In case meta-analyses are considered inappropriate, one will need to synthesize the data in another way. Please provide a method for doing this. The guidance by Campbell et al. 2 and Chapter 12 of the Cochrane Handbook 3 may provide valuable input for this. 6) Page 5 - Synthesis of results: In case a meta-analysis can be performed, it is not unlikely that you will encounter statistically heterogeneous results. Please elaborate on how you will assess heterogeneity (i.e. what will you consider a heterogenous result?). Guidance on this can be found in Chapter 10.10 of the Cochrane Handbook 4 . 7) PRISMA-P Item 12: Although the authors state “a standardised data extraction protocol, developed by adding extra data elements to the JBI recommended minimum standards for data extraction for prevalence, incidence and risk factor systematic reviews” will be used, it is not clear which items the authors will extract. It would be transparent to add an empty copy of this data extraction sheet, to be clear about which data items will be extracted. 8) PRISMA-P Item 14: The authors need to clarify how they will use the risk of bias assessment during data synthesis. 9) PRISMA-P Item 17: I disagree that assessment of the body of evidence is not applicable. Several studies will contribute to outcomes, therefore it is useful to assess our overall confidence in the evidence gathered from different studies. I’m not saying the authors should definitely use the GRADE approach for this, but being transparent in how the overall strength of the body of evidence will be evaluated is necessary. 