Phipson, Zappia and Oshlack present evidence against the existence of systematic gene length bias in single cell RNA sequencing experiments that use unique molecular identifiers (UMI). In contrast, methods that measure read counts across full length transcripts appear similar to bulk RNA sequencing methods in that they are biased against short transcripts. Although these results are somewhat unexpected by those working in the field, the thorough analysis presented by Phipson et al. will be a valuable reference to those wishing to design single cell RNA-seq experiments. The article is written in a clear and accessible manner, and it is also nice to see all the analysis code has been made available. However, there are a number of minor issues with the paper in it's current form that we think should be addressed. Of particular note, the paper appears to conflate UMI methods with 3' counting methods. We see this as incorrect as i) long-read sequencing technology may allow profiling of full-length transcripts while incorporating UMIs, and ii) 3' counting methods can be used without UMIs. The effect of 3' counting on gene length bias could be separated from the effect of using UMIs by ignoring UMIs in a 3' counting experiment and testing to see if substantial gene length bias exists. Our guess is that it would not, due to the simple fact that the effective gene length is approximately equal for all genes when you measure only the last ~300 bp. Therefore, for the examination of gene length bias, it seems to us that the emphasis should be on 3' counting and not UMIs. Of course, not using UMIs would introduce substantial PCR amplification bias, but this is a separate issue to that being addressed by the paper. Minor comments: Introduction: "...technology enables researchers to examine transcription at the resolution of a single cell..." -- The technology measures mRNA abundance, not transcription itself. (paragraph 1) "...alternative splicing... analysis is not possible with data generated with protocols that include UMIs." -- it is possible that long-read technologies (eg. Pacbio or Oxford Nanopore) could be coupled with UMI tagged cDNA generated using drop-seq methods before cDNA fragmentation to capture full-length transcripts. (paragraph 3) It may be beneficial to include supplemental table 1 in the main text. Processing of all datasets: Why are different cutoffs used for filtering out cells between experiments? eg. 80% dropout for Kolodziejczyk, 85% dropout for Guo, 90% for Camp, 70% for Tung, 85% Klein. Similar with the library size cutoff and percent ERCC cutoff. In the Klein methods section, ERCC percentage is reported as 0.01 total library size rather than the percentage. For readability it may be better to have consistent style throughout the manuscript (eg. percent total for everything). For Ziegenhain methods, it's stated that all cells appeared high quality and so weren't filtered. What constitutes high quality, and how was this assessed? As the count matrix was used in this case, were the cells pre-filtered by the original authors? Statistical analysis: "UMI dataset was normalized using scran ...as it clearly showed composition bias." What method was used for normalization, and what exactly is meant by 'compositional bias' and how was this assessed? We believe the scran package depends on scater for implementation of it's normalization methods. Why use different fold change parameters for UMI and full-length methods? Also, a log (is this log2?) fold change of 1 is 0 fold change. Furthermore, how were the log transformed values calculated for datasets with many zeros? Figure 1: More informative axis labels, eg. "Average normalized read counts (log2 scale)" rather than "AvgLogCounts" would increase readability. Please note that the Tung et al. paper is now published in Scientific Reports and the Ziegenhain paper is published in Molecular Cell. Figure 4: The comparison of the number of genes detected by UMI vs full-length methods is somewhat confounded by the differing sequencing depth between the methods. This is stated in the text, but a better comparison could be made by sub-sampling reads from the experiments to equivalent numbers of reads per cell. 