This is a very thought provoking review on protein export in the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum . The proposed model is centered on the fact that in other systems, N-terminal acetylation of proteins is found in the cytosol, not the ER lumen. If this is adopted for P. falciparum , it literally turns the current model for protein export inside out: instead of the previously assumed binding of the PEXEL export motif to PI3P and subsequent processing of the PEXEL within the ER, cytosolic acetylation of the processed N-terminus would place these events to the outside of the ER. As these events are considered to be the key requirements for export, this is of great importance to understand protein export in malaria parasites. The review then draws on previously published models for vesicular trafficking in P. falciparum and autophagy-related processes to propose pathways for the de-PEXELed protein on the outer ER leaflet to reach the host cell. For instance this would make possible a previously considered elegant model (REF 7) of serial events of vesicular budding and fusion leading to delivery of the protein into the host cell without direct crossing of any membranes. Overall this is a well written review with a clear hypothesis that adds an important new angle for the field to consider. Although the proposed model fits a lot of the data on protein export, there are also some discrepancies that become obvious when delving into the details. There are a number of points I would like to raise for discussion: - The explanation why the mDHFR fusion constructs (REF 32) do not challenge the hypothesis (page 5, third and fourth paragraph) is difficult to understand. Is it assumed that the mDHFR domain is in the ER lumen while the PEXEL binds to the outside of the ER and that this binding would be able to rescue the unfolded domain but not the folded version out of the ER? In this case it is not entirely clear how this fits into the model for translocation of proteins into the ER. A graphical explanation of the topology of this situation with the mDHFR fusion protein and how it can ensue would be helpful. This is important, as this part of the review is central to discounting the prominently proposed protein translocation at the PVM (REF 14). As an aside on this topic: while it is true that functional evidence for the PVM translocon is lacking, it may be worth noting that there is some earlier evidence for ATP-dependent translocation of an exported protein across the PVM (Ansorge et al., 2006; Biochem J). - Boddey et al. (REF 8) carried out a detailed analysis of 2 proteins with mutated PEXELs. For one of these proteins they found a signal peptidase-cleaved species that was retained in/at the ER. Despite an R-A mutation in the PEXEL (position 1) this protein was N-acetylated. Thus, in this case acetylation seemed independent of PEXEL mediated PI3P binding and PMV cleavage. As the signal peptide is usually cleaved during translocation, this could also indicate N-acetylation after ER entry. For the second protein, the PEXEL cleaved E-A mutation (position 5) was analysed. This protein was found in the PV despite being N-acetylated. This would even more strongly argue that protein entering the ER can still be acetylated. Finally, N-acetylation also occurred with the signal peptidase-cleaved mutated PfEMP3 trafficked to the PV (REF 9), a construct mentioned in this review as an example not entering the proposed pathway for export. These findings seem to be at odds with the proposed model. - The data on the exact localisation of plasmepsin V, while not exactly excluding the possibility suggested in this review (page 2), could as well indicate a localisation within the ER. If I interpret the images from the episomally expressed constructs from REF 10 correctly, then the signal peptide mediates (and is sufficient for) PV targeting and thus also for ER entry. This would indicate a failure of ER retention rather than lack of ER targeting in the mutants lacking the transmembrane domain. The conclusion here that this data ‘demonstrates that it is not a signal sequence’ may therefore not be correct. It is also not clear why PMV would possess an N-terminal hydrophobic region at all if it is targeted by its C-terminal hydrophobic region (P. falciparum contains components for the insertion of tailanchored proteins which do not require a signal peptide). - The explanation for PEXEL negative protein (PNEP) export is a bit weak (page 5, first paragraph). Binding of PNEPs to PEXEL proteins as a means for export could occur in most models for export and is no particular feature of the alternative proposed here. In fact, for this model, I would expect PNEPs not to require a hydrophobic region at all. - As a general consideration. If N-acetylation in Plasmodium parasites is expected to strictly follow the current cell biological concepts from other systems, then this should equally be considered for the vesicle trafficking needed as a result of this (i.e. to make possible the export of a protein on the outer face of the ER). In particular this concerns how proteins get across the PVM. There is no tangible evidence for the presence of the components known to mediate vesicular trafficking (e.g. coats, SNAREs, rabs etc) beyond the parasite plasma membrane (absence of evidence of course is not necessarily evidence for absence, but in contrast many classical components in anterograde and retrograde vesicular trafficking seem to be present within the parasite, see e.g. Deponte et al., MBP 2012). How the vesicle trafficking necessary to suit the model is achieved may therefore be a similarly (or even more) enigmatic cell biological problem than how proteins could be acetylated within the ER. - Although various types of vesicles have been documented in the host cell (on the morphological level, directed trafficking has not been demonstrated), I am unaware of any report convincingly showing vesicles in the PV. The close proximity of the PPM and PVM seem to make vesicle trafficking not the most suitable way for this. Is there any precedent for vesicular trafficking in such a situation? - Although an opinion article, alternatives to cytoplasmic acetylation could perhaps be discussed. Possibly there still is an unknown N-terminal acetylation activity in the ER of Plasmodium parasites (for instance there is one GNAT domain containing protein, PF14_0350, with 2 hydrophobic segments). Or, at least as a formal possibility, can it be entirely excluded that the observed N-acetylation of processed PEXEL proteins is non-physiological and occurs during affinity purification of these proteins from parasite extracts? This would require posttranslational N-terminal acetylation activities which, at least in yeast, seem to exist (Helsens et al., 2011 J Proteome Res). 