The title of the piece is not logically correct, and needs further modification. Although the authors clarification explains how the asymmetry of the light source could, in principle lead to discrepancies in the measurement of ocular disconjugacy, it is based on a long chain of reasoning that is far from establishing the claim of the title, that Ocular disconjugacy cannot be measured without establishing a solid spatial reference. What the Correspondence establishes is that ocular disconjugacy measures could, in principle, be biased by asymmetries in the geometry of eye tracking camera illumination. To my mind, however, he has not yet established that the ocular disconjugacy measures were in fact biased in this way. He admits that, if the male-female ratios were equated, there would be no basis for a bias between the TBI and the control groups, even given the asymmetry of the illumination. Thus, even if the present result were significantly biased by the small differences in the male-female ratios of the present study, it would still not be the case that ocular disconjugacy cannot be measured without establishing a solid spatial reference, since the any bias introduced by interpupillary differences could be compensated by matching the interpupilllary distances of the controls to those of the test subjects. The added phrase should be affixed to one side of the camera. The sentence Asymmetries exist because there is a physical separation between the two eyes as well as between the camera and the infrared light source. is logically incorrect. Asymmetries exist because the light source is asymmetrically placed with respect to the symmetry axis of the two eyes. If the displaced infrared source were either above or below the camera lens, i.e. if it were on the symmetry axis, there would be no asymmetry in the view of the eyes (assuming that the eyes themselves were symmetric). Of course, the first half of the sentence is definitely not true on its own: asymmetries exist because there is a physical separation between the two eyes. The concept of a bias introduced by consistent male-to-female ratio differences developed in the response goes some way to addressing the issue of bias introduced by the asymmetry, but it has to be established for the groups in the study in order to be a relevant criticism. The male-to-female ratio differences between groups were small, and were not statistically significant for these small groups. Can the author show that these small ratio differences were quantitatively sufficient to account for the Samadani et al. results (in terms of the reported range of male-female interpupillary distances in the subject populations that they used)?