This case report describes a classic presentation of PXE in a young girl. I have a few comments on the current manuscript: The manuscript refers in the introduction and discussion to the detection of a mutation in ABCC6, but PXE is an autosomal recessive disease, so this should be mutations in ABCC6. PXE can also be caused by mutations in the ENPP1 gene. This should be added. The difference between women and man is approximately 3:1, not 10:1 In the description of the ocular lesions, there should be a distinction between the angioid streaks due to Bruch's membrane abnormalities - which are almost always present - and retinal changes, i.e. a retinal dystrophy which can occur but is much more rare. The idea of not analyzing ABCC6 when the histology is typical is not correct for two reasons: a. in its initial presentation - both clinical and histological - PXE can high resemble the PXE-like syndrome with coagulation factor deficiency due to GGCX mutations. The natural history and follow-up of these patients is however completely different. b. identification of the causal mutations - either in ABCC6 or ENPP1 - will allow to detect subclinical patients in the family (as said, some have no skin lesions and angioid streaks do not have to become symptomatic immediately) as well as heterozygous carriers. The latter also have a higher cardiovascular risk and a higher risk for stroke and are candidates for primary prevention. So every patient should have molecular analysis performed! In the first paragraph of the discussion, the authors mention the eyeballs. But there is nothing wrong with the eyeballs themselves. PXE patients have media calcification in their arteries, which leads to arteriosclerosis, not atherosclerosis (which reflects intima calcification). The differential diagnosis is absolutely not complete: one should exclude the hemoglobinopathy-associated phenocopy, the PXE-like syndrome with coagulation factor deficiency, the PXE-like phenotype with pigmented retinopathy, ... 