In this manuscript, Kanduri and Jarvela present a bioconductor R package that facilitates integration of multiple layers of experimental data to prioritise disease- or phenotype-associated genes. This fairly simple package contains three methods: convergence evidence (CE), rank product (RE) and combination of p-values (p). These methods were intended to combine multiple sources of experimental evidence if the evidence are in the form of presence/absence of detection of genes (CE), ranking of genes (RE) and p-values of genes (p). This paper did not present any theoretical justification or empirical evaluation of these methods, and the 'Use cases' presented in their R package's vignette is based on some very simple toy examples. There is no evidence in this paper or on the github repository that directly supports their claim that these methods can 'prioritize the candidate genes of complex genetic traits' (Abstract). After further careful examination of their source code, I believe their methods have important flaws, and their description in the text contains errors. The major flaw is that they fail to consider two important implicit assumptions: (1) each evidence layer is independent, and (2) the same number of genes are tested in each evidence layer. All the methods described in this manuscript are only potentially valid if these two assumptions are satisfied. Nonetheless, considering the wide range of applications described in their Introduction, it is very easy to imagine these assumptions will be violated in practice. In fact, the failure to consider differences in the gene universe in different evidence layer (assumption 2) is a particularly problematic issue. For example, when combining data from different detection platforms (custom microarrays, targeted or non-targeted proteomic experiments, and NGS-based data), the number of genes that are probed in each experiment can vary a lot. Their CE method implicitly assumes the gene universe to be identical. Their RP method assumes that any missing genes are imputed with rank (n+1) where n is the number of detectable genes in that evidence layer (described in the online Vignette of the package). Their p method excludes genes that have too many missing entries. None of these approaches are entirely appropriate to address the issues related to the violation of these assumptions. Both RP and the p-value combination methods were designed for other more specific purposes, and have been implemented in other bioconductor packages. They were not specifically designed for performing the type of integrative meta-analysis proposed by the authors in this manuscript. The CE method is essentially a very simple weighted sum of presence/absence detection across multiple layers. Even if the two implicit assumptions are satisfied, I still find this CE method rather useless. There is no statistical significance associated with the CE score, and the inclusion of a 'custom weight' is rather arbitrary. In essence, the entire method can be implemented in 2-3 lines of R code. It does not seem necessary to develop a whole bioconductor package for this. I also found a technical error in weighted CE equation on page 3. Based on their source code (https://github.com/KanduriC/GenRank/blob/master/R/compute_CE.R), the equation should have been: CE(G) = [CE(G_L1)*w(L1)+...+CE(G_Ln)*w(Ln)]/ [w(L1)+...+w(Ln)]. 