Ryan and co-workers have developed the software tool Interactive Clustered Heat Map (CHM) builder to enable investigators with minimal expertise in bioinformatics and biostatistics to generate publication-quality heatmaps. The use of heatmaps to visualize related datasets is a common feature in many reports of the results of studies that include genome or transcriptome-scale experiments. However, the statistical underpinnings of a heatmap require the application of appropriate transformation and clustering procedures. The interactive CHM tool makes use of user-uploaded data that is then processed to generate heatmaps defined by a set of standardized options; for example, the user can select different distance metrics (e.g., the calculation of Euclidean distance versus Manhattan distance) or clustering options (random versus hierarchical). The user also has the option to input possible co-variant data sets for the further stratification of the primary results. Furthermore, the user can customize the visual properties of the heatmap by selecting the output of the computational pipeline from a palette of colors. The article itself is well-written, though, as stated below, we recommend some edits to the current text. A particularly positive feature of this CHM tool is the inclusion of a dynamic capability that allows the user to explore their data in greater depth. Many of the features of the graphical user interface (GUI) are easy to use, and the user does not have to refer to the accompanying article describing the builder software continually. However, to enhance the impact of this resource, we recommend modification of the current versions of their article and software tool to address the following points. Article In the Introduction, the authors discuss the user’s ability to use their tool to generate heatmaps reiteratively, refining data transformation, annotation, clustering, and formatting. The authors also point out that this may introduce the risk of generating a multiple-comparison issue. To help the user avoid such issues, can the authors briefly mention other resources (e.g., review articles) that the user can refer to when considering which of the transformation, clustering, and distance metrics will be most applicable to their dataset? The authors should include a discussion of how the interactive HCM builder compares to other free heatmap generators available, for example, heatmapper.ca; Babickiet al., Heatmapper: web-enabled heat mapping for all Nucleic Acids Res. 2016 May 17 (epub ahead of print). DOI:10.1093/nar/gkw419 ); and the Morpheus software from the Broad Institute ( https://software.broadinstitute.org/morpheus/ ). Some datasets require non-hierarchical clustering to obtain the most appropriate and meaningful interpretation of the results. Please explain why this software provides only either hierarchical, random, or no clustering options? Website Some test runs found that when the user runs through the work-flow and generates a heatmap using a dataset, the generation of a new heatmap either using the same dataset or a different dataset requires the user to close the website and re-open the homepage. The re-set function may need modification. Some test runs found that when choosing the formatting and then palettes after adding co-variants, the apply button on the left-hand window has lines running through it. It is easy to maneuver and resize the highlighter box over any region of the heatmap generated using the sample data. However, we noted not all heatmaps performed as well using user-uploaded data. Please state clearly on the website’s front-page that the website limits the heat map to “no more than 4,000 total rows and columns and no more than 3,500 elements on either axis.” In the absence of this statement on the front-page, users may attempt to upload more complex datasets. 