Visualization of a scientific idea with diagrams is often time very useful. Examples of such visualization are phase diagrams in thermodynamics and reaction coordinate diagrams in kinetics. In the present paper, the author attempted to visualize complicated networks of antibody-antigen interactions in the immune system. The visual model that the author developed is analogous to the energy landscape diagram of protein folding, which has been very successful in describing protein folding. Even though the idea of the present paper is creative and ambitious, I found several mistakes and conceptual misunderstandings in the paper. Hydrophobic effect does not originate from the conformational entropy of water molecules as stated in the paper. Its origin comes from the configurational freedom of water molecules. The structure (conformation) of water molecules is highly stable, so we don’t expect it to change in biologically relevant conditions. The author was not clear about distinction between the free energy in standard state (ΔG) and in any arbitrary states (ΔG) throughout the paper. The equation, ΔG = -RT ln K, in the paper should be presented as ΔG = -RT ln K. In the explanation of the equation, ΔG = ΔH - TΔS, ΔS was attributed to conformational changes. However, in most biochemical interactions, hydrophobic effects and dissociation and/or association of salts to binding molecules are the major contributors to ΔS. Figure 1 of the paper contains a theoretical line that the author claims represents a stability barrier. Thermodynamic stability of a complex is dependent only upon the ΔG for the association or dissociation. It is not clear why and how the stability line is a linear function of ΔS, as in the figure. Figure 2 presents a three dimensional version of Figure 1. The three dimensional version was obtained by spinning Figure 1. I am not sure what the mathematical or physical implications of the spinning of the graph are. The author employed several physical concepts in describing Figure 5 such as hypersurface, elasticity, standing waves, propagating waves, and pressure. I am not sure how those concepts are related to the antibody-antigen bindings. Despite several creative and insightful points made in the paper, I found that the paper needs significant revision. Finally I am not sure how the complexity in the humoral immune reaction can be visualized graphically or presented algebraically. Suppose there are m different antibodies and n different antigens. The full description of the entire possible bindings of the system will require m n binding equations. If m = 10^10 and n = 10^3, then it will produce a system of 10^13 parallel equations. Solving such systems will be challenging even with supercomputers. 