 The aim of this study is not quite clear, yet the topic is very interesting. The abstract is irrelevant and incomplete, and the conclusion is not fully corresponding to the aim of the study. Citations are correctly referenced at the end, but please check for the two internet links that were mentioned in our specific comments. Appropriate key studies were included. It is clear what is already known about the topic, but it is not clear what research question is outlined. The relationship between COPD and metabolic syndrome needs more justification in the introduction. Process of the subject selection is clear, and the method is valid. Please add more details regarding the software used. Tables and Figures are clearly presented. Please add statistical significance for Tables 1, 2 and 3. Titles, columns, and rows are labelled correctly. Still not quite sure about what is statistically significant and practically meaningful. Results may be over-interpreted. The discussion is very uncertain and repetitive. Limitations are not fatal and there should be another opportunity to inform future research. Discussion section is low quality. The article is not consistent within itself: - Conclusions of the study reflecting only one aspect of the aim, and it is only respiratory symptoms. - There is no data presented on spirometry of patients from 3 groups. It is not clear if it was performed in all groups. - In the protocol of this study published earlier, it was mentioned that there was laboratory testing of serum: its not clear if alfa1antitripsin was tested. - The same for chest computed tomography: any data from the smoking group? - There is surprisingly low prevalence of COPD in the smoker group! - In the discussion, the data from the current study must be compared with the data from other studies. Conclusions are not corresponding to the aim of the study. Questions to the author(s): 1. How reliable is the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) for this study? 2. What was the cause for COPD among never-smoker subjects? 3. In your introduction, first paragraph: You used 2015 statistic numbers. Why not 2017 or 2018? 4. Why is metabolic syndrome associated with COPD? Please consider adding a paragraph regarding the pathophysiology between those entities. 5. What impact you did consider having with this paper? 6. Regarding the statistical computing “R”: Where was it designed? Is it reliable and accurate? 7. What was the etiology for the metabolic syndrome of those patients? 8. Is it possible that patients with metabolic syndrome had respiratory symptoms due to their obesity? Specific comments from reviewer to author(s): 1. Introduction, 3 rd paragraph: Please use the correct internet citation for this paragraph (Vancouver style if possible) and place it as #3. Then move all the numbers according to their new assigned number citation. (for example: …”2015 3 ” now is “2015 4 ”.) 2. Outcome measures: MetS – Correct internet citation for the definition and also assigned a number as well. Then correct the reference list and check that all the numbers are according to their citation in the article. 3. Please add more information about the statistical computing “R”. 