This article is a valuable contribution to the ongoing discussion regarding the importance of using properly validated antibodies to undertake robust and reproducible scientific research. The article distinguishes antibody testing, in which reactivity is seen using a specific technique, from validation, where specificity is observed using the appropriate positive and negative controls, and outlines the information provided on commercial product sheets. This article addresses key practical issues that can arise during production, storage, and shipping that can affect the quality of an antibody, even when the reagent has been well validated. Furthermore, the author proposes that distinguishing and identifying batch and aliquot information is adopted universally. An interesting point arising from reading this article is that despite the mention of using two independent antibodies to the target antigen to validate flow cytometry data (in the example using CD4), this information does not appear frequently on the performance specifications from vendors’ product sheets (Table 2), the exception being for immunoprecipitation. The lack of availability of comparative data (same experiment and biological samples) for multiple antibodies makes it difficult to identify the most effective reagent. It would be helpful if product sheets could display comparative data from suppliers having multiple antibodies to the same antigen. While researchers might still need to purchase another antibody, if they wished to compare the best from different manufacturers, having supportive data using an independent antibody significantly strengthens scientific conclusions. Minor comments It might be useful for more inexperienced researchers to highlight in Table 2 what level of information is considered to be inadequate. The statement that “Antibodies with a defined epitope/immunizing peptide are intrinsically more robust compared to antibodies raised to entire proteins because the limited size of the antigen increases the chance of reproducible characteristics” would benefit from further clarification. While this is true for polyclonals, a monoclonal antibody raised against an entire protein is as robust and reproducible as one recognising an immunizing peptide, as both will bind a single epitope. 