The authors have presented quite a complete and compelling analysis of some unintentional and, perhaps, overlooked consequences for the USA and the world if use of the radioisotope cobalt-60 (Co‑60) is severely limited because of security motivated restrictions. They provide the motivation for controlling access to Co-60 sources in their review and analysis. And they lay out some consequences and risks through a good survey of the value of Co-60 in commerce, medicine and agriculture and the potential impact of restrictions. They reason that the restriction of Co-60 needs to be more carefully analysed, particularly in sterilization and medical applications, since other irradiation technologies and approaches are not yet fully developed for all these applications. They note that the ability to configure the radioactive Co-60 sources in purpose-built devices has provided robust solutions which may not be as easily, or economically, achieved with more technologically complex x-ray or electron irradiators. And associated difficulties of increased complexity and decreased reliability may delay the transition to alternate approaches not yet in place. These are important points that have not been analysed broadly in the literature previously, and to bring them forward here presents a timely and important addition to the literature. Much of their discussion is limited to select applications in which Co-60 based irradiators have had a lead role in the United States and high income countries (HICs). And the analysis of these applications is quite good but there are two points I would suggest the authors consider in future work regarding the impact of the elimination of Co-60 treatment units in radiation therapy. 1) While the description in the paper on the implications of Gamma-knife restriction does give some context to the importance of Co-60 based brain cancer treatment, it has missed recent technological and clinical developments. The ability to treat small lesions and targets with high energy external beam radiation treatment (EBRT) has been extended to x-ray linear accelerator based units; this includes specialised devices and techniques such as small field robotic x-ray units (the CyberKnife, Accuray, Sunnyvale, CA) and advanced EBRT units with volumetric modulated arc radiotherapy (VMAT) capabilities that are now available in cancer clinics. That is not to say that the Gamma-knife inventory currently deployed is not a critical resource. It is just to note that alternative devices are already available for this clinical application, although a transition to these devices would have considerable challenges in funding and clinical implementation. 2) A further aspect of radioisotope restriction that could benefit from additional analysis is the impact of the removal of the Co-60 treatment units in low and middle income countries (LMICs) throughout the world. One can argue that the development of high photon energy Co-60 based devices (with effectively ~1.25 MeV mono-energetic beams) in the 1950s inaugurated high energy EBRT. As noted by the authors, Co-60 radiation therapy devices have been essentially replaced in much of HICs (aside from select devices such as the Gamma-Knife, the recent ViewRay MRIdian Co-60 Co-60/MRI unit, and some other specialised units). But over 2000 conventional Co-60 EBRT units are still in use in LMICs throughout the world, in large part because of the simple and robust design of these units and the low power and water supply infrastructure requirements for the devices (which often limit the feasibility of linear accelerator based x‑ray EBRT units in certain locales). This is an important inventory already in place for cancer treatment, particularly in LMICs; the removal of these devices because of Co-60 security concerns may have critical negative effects. The World Health Organization has reported that LMICs annually account for over 60% of the world’s new cancer case, yet despite being home to 85% of the world’s population, they have less than 35% of the world’s radiotherapy facilities. The increased burden of cancer and the associated requirement for an increased distribution of EBRT radiation units in LMIC’S has also been highlighted by the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Global Task Force on Radiotherapy for Cancer Control. The restricted availability of Co‑60 devices potentially introduces a critical impediment to the important increased deployment of EBRT units as governments and international health agencies work to deal with this deficit. While research groups and radiotherapy vendors are working on developing simpler x-ray units for locales with limited infrastructure, it seems there will be a period over which we will rely on the simple Co-60 devices already deployed as well as additional installations (perhaps with new devices specially designed for improved performance and enhanced security of sources) to meet the cancer burden. And, as the authors discuss, the very countries requiring Co-60 radiotherapy deployment may be the same countries where Co-60 security is a challenge. Innovative solutions to ensure availability of needed Co-60 units with effective security control requires attention and the authors may be well set to undertake the analysis and discussion informing such solutions I have also added some suggested references that discuss some points on Co-60 EBRT in LMICs. 