In this study, He and Garmire utilized publicly available gene expression datasets on COVID-19 lungs and drug treatment studies in lung cell lines to conduct drug repositioning analysis. They found that the genes and pathways altered by an AEC2 inhibitor in the HCC515 lung cell line mimic those of COVID-19 lungs, supporting that ACE2 inhibition likely underlines the lung injury induced by the SARS-CoV2 virus. They used the gene profiles from these datasets to identify drugs in the L1000 database that can reverse the genes and pathways affected by ACE2 inhibition and in COVID-19 lungs and prioritized two drugs, COL-3 and CGP-60474, that have such properties and may have the potential to treat COVID-19. The study was well-designed and executed, the paper was well-written and easy to follow, and the findings are interesting and promising. The genes, pathways, and drugs uncovered offer insights into COVID-19. Overall a very timely study to address a critical health issue. There are some technical aspects to be addressed, as detailed below. Major: Some of the statistical analyses need justification. The arbitrary use of top 1000 genes instead of any statistical cutoff is unconventional. Pathway analysis used raw p values instead of FDRs, which is also unconventional. Please justify. Unclear what type of genes are considered in n_consistent in the pathway score calculation. Among top 1000 genes in both ACE2i and COVID19? If so, state it clearly. As many curated pathways that are closely related (e.g., inflammation pathways) share overlapping genes, they tend to show coordinated over- or under-enrichment in pathway analysis. The use of n_pathway in the gene score calculation can be misleading due to such overlaps in non-independent pathways. Which method was used in the FDR calculation for drug repositioning analysis? Please clarify. Datasets related to H1N1 was used as a positive control to test the drug repositioning pipeline since numerous FDA-approved drugs are available. This is a good design but only one of the drugs predicted was discussed. What about the other top ranked drugs? Any evidence for H1N1 treatment effect for the other top ranked drugs? What about the FDR approved drugs for H1N1? Were they retrieved by the analysis? These are unclear based on the results descriptions. If not, the conclusion "our drug repositioning pipeline has shown merit in discovering effective drugs through the example of H1N1 infection" is too strong. For genes in Table 2, not sure if the direction of changes is consistent. Please clarify. Minor: Add year to the date "12th May". It is interesting that the ACE2 inhibitor only inhibited ACE2 in HCC515 cell line but not the A549 cell line. Any explanation on why the drug did not inhibit ACE2 in A549? 