The authors present an improved version of EmbedSOM that was optimized for speed to address extra large single cell data sets. In addition, a novel way of growing SOM based on quad-tree was proposed. Dimension reduction of large single cell RNAseq and flow cytometry data sets is very challenging due to the crowding problem and algorithm scalability issues. Therefore, developing methods alternative to the current golden standards such as PCA, tSNE and UMAP is of high importance. More specifically, tSNE and UMAP are capable of preserving only local structure while PCA keeps the global structure information. However, no method is currently available that can preserve both local and global structure. Self-Organizing Maps (SOMs) and the modified EmbedSOM that are discussed in the manuscript represent an interesting and promising algorithm in this respect. However, I would like to raise a few questions and concerns to be addressed by the authors. First, based on the cost function mentioned on the page 3, the algorithm seems to resemble MDS / PCA type of dimension reduction. Therefore, I would like to see a comparison of EmbedSOM with MDS / PCA. If a connection between the gamma-delta T cells and CD8 T cells was not captured by tSNE and UMAP as it is mentioned on the page 8, probably due to the lack of global structure preservation by tSNE and UMAP, was this connection captured by MDS / PCA? Second, what would be the benefit of using EmbedSOM compared to PCA / MDS, tSNE and UMAP? Do we discover any new biology using EmbedSOM that is not captured by PCA / tSNE / UMAP? Do we benefit from the computational speed of EmbedSOM compared to PCA / tSNE / UMAP? If so, is it really faster (and how much faster) than PCA? I would like to see a clear formulation of the role of the EmbedSOM among other dimension reduction methods. Third, I was really impressed by the Figure 1 and how well GQTSOM-based embedding was able to reconstruct the original 3D S-shaped non-linear manifold. To my experience, tSNE / UMAP and especially PCA / MDS would have difficulty reconstructing the 3D S-shaped manifold as 2D embeddings. I have not found any links to the codes for reproducing this embedding and would be very curious to see whether GQTMSOM / EmbedSOM is really capable of capturing the internal 2D structure of the 3D S-shaped non-linear manifold. 