I consider this paper as an excellent report and is an important addition to the existing information on the subject. I personally adored the concept of exploring better markers to identify patients of ruptured intracranial aneurysm at high risk of postoperative clinical vasospasm and delayed cerebral ischemia and the promising findings of components of ICG flow status as one of the important components and predictors as tested by various statistical methods. I hope the author intend to study the concept in larger number of patients with ruptured intracranial aneurysm. In addition I would like to add few comments: Abstract: In the methodology section, the authors can mention ….. (Last line) ….predicting onset of vasospasm and delayed cerebral ischemia, as per the objective of the study. In the conclusion section, it may be better to replace word “confirmed” in “our study confirmed …..” I feel this study has found/demonstrated the role FLOW 800…… rather than establishing it. Introduction: This section is well written with the emphasis on the potential role of information generated by FLOW 800 vascular mapping. However the last sentence appears to be long. The authors could break up the sentences with pertinent references so that it is easily understood. “Indocyanine green (ICG) flow studies are safe, easily applicable, readily reproducible and now routinely used during the microvascular clipping of aneurysms. [Reference?] A note on current status of ICG studies in predicting vasospasm would be better here. Methods: The author mentions CLINICAL VASOSPASM in introduction and in methodology section “radiological vasospasm” is also mentioned. Kindly elaborate. It is wiser to mention why ANOVA was chosen when multivariate analysis is also done in this case. Why were these tests chosen and how would they help in interpretation in this test. Discussion: I think the authors should discuss more about their findings with appropriate reference rather than reviewing about the machine and methods. Conclusion: With the limitation explained by the authors, this study obviously may not precisely identify patients at high risk of post-operative vasospasm, so it may be prudent to conclude by remaining confined to the objective and the the relevant result of the study. 