The article compares the number of canonical proteins encoded by the human genome in different resources, including UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, HGNC, neXtProt, GeneID, Ensembl or CCDS. The major conclusion is that the number of canonical proteins should be around 19,000 and that, while numbers converge across resources the full canonical human proteome is still not defined. This is a good description of the current situation and the article is therefore interesting even if there could be confusion between protein-coding genes and canonical proteins. If the author assumes it is the same, maybe for consistency reason it would be good to mention only protein-coding genes or to explain what the differences are. The author also suggests that an inter-team collaboration could come-up with a finished canonical proteome and seems to ignore the ways the different resources already collaborate. As this has already been raised in the review of E.Bruford, we will not enter into details. The question of the release cycle is also important and should be developed in more details. Many discrepancies are only transitional and only due to the release cycle of the resources compared. As mentioned in the article, neXtProt is built on UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and differences between these resources are only due to release schedule. But this is also holds true for the other resources and should be emphasized. Another issue concerns the methodology of the study. A number of resources compared in this study do not have the same primary mission and it is therefore normal to have discrepancies between them. For example, HGNC is a nomenclature committee and official gene names are assigned when a consensus name is reached in the community. As a consequence, some clear protein-coding genes, such as NSG1 and NSG2 (UniProt P42857 and Q9Y328, respectively) are not yet present in HGNC, because no consensus has been found for these genes. The same is true for CCDS, which aims to provide a consensus sequence for all protein-coding genes: some protein-coding genes are absent from the CCDS set because no consensus has been found for the sequence (for example ELOA3C; UniProt A0A087WX78). An alternative approach to assess the number of human protein-coding genes might be to compare portals described in this article with proteomics resources: it might be interesting to investigate the number of peptides that do not match to protein-coding genes in HGNC, UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot or GeneID. We think that the article would benefit developing these different points in the discussion. There are a number of typos and imprecisions in the text listed below that alter the quality of the manuscript and should be reviewed: “are all cross referenced to a single, maximal length, protein entry.” It is not absolutely true since the maximal length is one the criteria. However, the relevance of the selected canonical protein in Swiss-Prot in term of expression and biological relevance are also considered among other criteria. “the fact that that” “the first two are essentially automated pipelines” it is not clear what the author is referring to? Swiss-Prot and HGNC? “There is now a community effort to promote more proteins to P1” The author uses indifferently PE1 to PE5 and P1 to P5. This could be misleading. “indicate the correct human sequence is the 35 resides represented in” One should read residues instead of resides. “The current UniProt has” When mentioning the database, prefer UniProtKB 