The manuscript is related to an interesting and relevant issue. The analysis of different gold standards for caries assessment than stereomicroscopy is of great interest, as we all know that the histological gold standard has limitations. However, in my view, certain points need to be clarified. I have carefully revised the manuscript and I hope the comments below are helpful to improve the quality of its final version. ABSTRACT I do recommend rewriting the abstract. It should be structured with Aim, Methods, Results and Conclusion in this order. It is not necessary to mention the titles, but it is important to follow this sequence. The aims are not mentioned in the abstract and results are shown before methodology. INTRODUCTION 1 st paragraph, lines 6 to 8 radiography with microscopic resolution (MR) is considered as a highly reliable gold standard for detecting variations in dentin mineral content. I miss a reference for this statement. If MR was not validated previously for the detection and assessment of dentin caries or dentin reactions to caries, the aim of the study should be changed. Instead of testing the accuracy of stereomicroscopy against MR, it should be testing the accuracy of MR against stereomicroscopy. Reference number 10 (Hintze et al. 1995) concluded that SM was more reliable than MR. References number 11 to 14 (Applebaum et al. 1933; Applebaum 1935; Gottlieb 1946; Gottlieb et al. 1946) dont seem to refer to validation studies. AIM First aim: how to test the accuracy of SM if it is established as gold standard? Second aim: I didnt understand. Please, explain better what is elements of accuracy. Third aim: In my view, the third aim summarizes everything. MATERIALS AND METHODS Calibration of examiners of ground sections and selection of histological sites Please, clarify better how calibration was done. What means Examiner agreed on the final scores by consulting with each other ? Does it mean that examinations were not done independently? Please, clarify the following sentence: included in the sample when two sites had the same type of dentin reactions detected by SM, while showing different types of dentin reactions when detected using MR. It is not clear for me. If MR had to be different from SM, the results would be completely biased by this selection criterion. Or not? RESULTS Tables in general Abbreviations should be explained using notes underneath the tables. Table 1 Carious and sclerotic dentin was observed in all samples. How do you explain it considering that 10 teeth were scored visually as ICDAS 0? The sums in table 1 vary from 153 (PLMQ) to 171 (NFNBC). Why? Figure1 The legend is not clear. Figures are not explained following the sequence of numbers. The arrows should be seen in all pictures. Table 2 The title is not clear enough. I suggest writing in the title that microradiography was used as gold standard. Table 3 In the title, what means (1-5) and (6)? Please, clarify the title. 