This work from Mazeres et al. deals with a family of membrane fluorescent probes of the well-known Laurdan family, more precisely Laurdan itself (as probe), C-Laurdan which was already introduced and studied by Kim et al. ( Chembiochem , 2007, 8, 553) and two new derivatives, so-called M-Laurdan and MoC-Laurdan. All these derivatives were synthesized by the authors through simplified chemical steps. The paper mainly presents an extensive characterization of the fluorescence properties of the probes in organic solvents of different polarities and dielectric constants, and in lipid vesicles of varying compositions, focusing on the fluorescence response versus lipid phases, either solid, liquid ordered (raft) or liquid disordered phases. Some preliminary results are also presented concerning live cells labelling. Visualization of lipid domains still remains a challenge, especially in cellular membranes. It is clear that the search and studies of new environment-sensitive membrane probes constitute an important issue in the development of raft imaging tools for cellular applications. In this context, the present work is an interesting contribution to progress in this challenge. However, either to improve the present contribution or to get more clear and precise information in a following work, we have to underline some critical points: Materials and Methods: Large Unilamellar Vesicles (LUVs) were prepared by sonication, as claimed by the authors. Such a method is probably not giving LUVs, but rather, depending on the delivered power, either Small Unilamellar Vesicles (SUVs), or an homogenized distribution of Multilamellar vesicles (MLVs) or Oligolamellar vesicles (OLVs). According to the sizes here presented (150 to 350 nm), I guess we are in presence of the latter case. This is not so important in the present work, since the fluorescence parameters presently collected are responding more or less identically whatever the type of lipid vesicles, but for example if it will be question to study the precise localization of a probe within a lipid bilayer, LUVs must be used. Generally the best procedure to get them is either extrusion or Kachels method ( BBA, 1998,1374, 63). How to interpret fluorescence anisotropy in terms of order parameter? The authors are fully aware that the fluorescence anisotropy ( r ) as a measure of membrane order must take into account the fluorescence lifetime ( ) of the probe in the medium. They present a lot of data for both parameters, but in different tables, and the corresponding discussion is hard to unravel. Why not to present the rotational relaxation time parameter which integrates r and and is directly correlated with the order parameter through the Perrin-Weber equation [( r 0 /r) 1] = 3 (cf. G. Weber, Adv.Prot. Res. 1953, 8, 415 ). We are presently in an ideal case to use this average parameter, since we are comparing probes presenting the same fluorophore, and consequently more or less the same molecular volume. For further works with these probes, it should be very interesting to proceed to parallax fluorescence quenching experiments in order to know the precise location of these probes (depth of the fluorophore in the lipid bilayer). This would be of great help for the interpretation of several data. In this case, experiments must be performed by using identical and well characterized LUVs. Minor comments and suggestions: Introduction, page 4. It is not true that plasma membranes are mainly composed of PC, SM and Chol. It is true only for the external leaflet. The inner leaflet contains significant amount of PS and to a lesser extent PE. Fig.1: data are obtained in chloroform. Better to indicate in the title than twice in footnotes. Labelling of LUVs, page 6. I do not catch what are steps of dessication and rehydration? Is it steps of freezing and defreezing? As compared to the three other probes, C-Laurdan is at least partially ionized, due to its carboxylic group. This explains its water solubility, why its incorporation in lipid vesicles or cell membranes is very rapid, and probably also some of its peculiar data in protic solvents. This should be mentioned. To compare data obtained with DPPC and SMs (either BSM or PSM), we should not forget that SMs are not single molecular species as DPPC, so that it is not surprising that, for example, a phase transition followed by fluorescence anisotropy cannot be so clear-cut with SMs as with DPPC. In their conclusion, the authors are presenting the ubiquitous staining patterns of M-Laurdan in cells as an advantage. It is not so evident as very often a need exists for a selective labelling (for example plasma membrane, or mitochondrial membrane or endosomal membrane). 