The GraRSX (ApsRSX) system is a CAMP-sensing system that recently has been shown to also require the presence of VraFG, whose expression it regulates, for signal transduction. Muzamal et al. here performed several experiments to further delineate details of the signal transduction process of this system. They analyzed interactions between the different proteins (notably, however, lacking investigation of VraG), which led them to conclude that GraX may serve as a between the two systems. They found also that GraS, the histidine kinase part of the GraRS TCS, lacks autophosphorylation activity. I have several major problems with this report. The conclusions from new findings are not sufficiently backed by conclusive evidence, often based on negative results; and there are many open ends in the report. The overall picture of the mechanism of GraRSX/VraFG signaling is biased. Finally, the responses to major and valid concerns of the previous reviewer one are unsatisfactory. The finding that GraX is required for signal transduction and may serve as a between the Gra and Vra proteins is not novel. The authors fail to cite, like on many other occasions, evidence derived from the first investigation of the ApsRSX (GraRSX) system (ref. 10), which was undertaken in detail in S. epidermidis , whose system shares high similarity with that of S. aureus. It was shown in that study that ApsX (GraX) is needed for CAMP sensing/signal transduction. Furthermore, Falon et al . (ref. 12) already performed experiments clearly indicating that GraX has that scaffold function. This main message of the report thus lacks novelty. Admittedly, the authors for the first time used protein-based methods to substantiate that model however, the used single method appears insufficient and technically problematic see mainly point 2. Main conclusions are based on protein-protein interaction studies by pull-down assays. As correctly criticized by reviewer 2, who asked for further experiments with different methods analyzing interaction, results from such assays are difficult to interpret, as they are heavily dependent on the used conditions especially when basing conclusions on negative results. This is the heart of the study, and to substantiate these results and provide a significant scientific advance, other methods must be used - especially given that Falon et al. already investigated those protein interactions with genetic tools and came to similar conclusions. The authors fail to correctly and sufficiently cite relevant findings from the literature, leading them to a biased presentation of the CAMP recognition mechanism. They state that GraS is not involved in CAMP sensing, despite clear evidence indicating otherwise. They only cite ref. 8 in that regard, in which it was shown that changing the extracellular loop of GraS results in changed CAMP sensing. They do, again, not cite ref. 10, in which experiments were performed further substantiating that role of GraS. There is certainly controversy regarding this question, but the way it is presented in this manuscript is biased, owing to the selective citing of previous studies. The authors draw conclusions about the lack of autophosphorylation activity of GraS from the investigation of a truncated GraS and from comparison to an only distantly (35% similarity) related system. This is not conclusive. Autophophorylation may need the whole protein and only because BceS undergoes autophophorylation under the tested conditions does not mean GraS would not under different ones. As pointed out already, important findings from the first study in S. epidermidis are not included and appropriately discussed. Furthermore, there has been evidence (ref. 8) that vraFG has an impact, although minor, on CAMP resistance in contrast to what the authors state. Here again, different findings in the literature are reported in a selective fashion. The previous reviewer one had several important remarks, most of which were not addressed in a satisfactory fashion. That reviewer noted that conclusions from the comparison to the Bce system are difficult to interpret, owing to a lack of similarity and a difference in function. I concur with that notion only because a remotely similar system shows an effect, and Gra proteins do not, does not mean that Gra proteins would not show an effect under different conditions. The authors draw conclusions from negative results. Second, the reviewer asked for other types of interaction studies to substantiate the results from the pull-down experiments (see above). This was not addressed. Third, the authors did not address VraG, simply stating it is not amenable to their type of studies as it is a membrane protein. Then they should perform other studies, as requested. Fourth, the reviewer asked for footprinting assays to be performed with phosphorylated protein. I completely concur that it is vital, especially given the model the authors propose, to perform these studies with clearly phosphorylated or de-phosphorylated protein. The authors simply state in their response that GraR does not undergo auto-phosphorylation by acetyl phosphate. If the authors cannot achieve phosphorylation by acetylphosphate, they should at least completely de-phosphorylate and show that binding is affected by phosphorylation. Fifth, the reviewer had a valid concern stating that the data in Fig. 9 should be presented like those in Fig. 10 to clearly demonstrate the absence of non-specific binding. Here again, the authors simply stated that they believe the data in Fig. 10 are enough to rule out such non-specific binding. However, there are completely different protein-protein interactions that are investigated in Fig. 9. Further remarks: The authors should at least mention the other name of the system ApsRSX. It was in the first report that demonstrated CAMP sensing of the system in S. epidermidis that it was named that way. In my opinion, the authors mainly must provide evidence for presence/lack of protein-protein interactions by a second method, in addition to answering appropriately to the other technical concerns and presenting a non-biased discussion about the sensing system.