As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit is presented quite clearly. The purpose of this article was also to assess the management of cod. A positive point of this point is the ability to assess the economic and ecological consequences of MPAs spatial planning. I like this point very much. This article lacks a sensitivity analysis of the model results to all the parameters used in the model. Many parameters are uncertain, so a sensitivity analysis will be helpful. Also, you should not use an ANOVA to examine simulation results (see White et al . 2014 1 ). There are other points that should be addressed: Egg production (0.5 million eggs per kg of female) is missing a reference. Is the random walk for larval dispersal and adult movement realistic? A beta distribution for larval mortality seems fine; but a normal distribution for adult mortality can give values above 1 or below 0, which is problematic. Why was the size distribution of the newly generated MPAs based on that of the World Database of Protected Areas? Existing protected areas are not optimally sized. The maximum distance scenario is the best in terms of biomass. Is there a "dramatic" increase in this scenario? Biomass attains more 100 kT in 2043 (the decreases). Compared to biomass in the other scenarios, this increase in relevant; What about the historical biomass? It is not clear to me how the profitability ratio works. Please define the summary statistics used in Table 1. What are "distance" and "moratorium"? Are values averaged over the fifty years (2000-2050)? I do not have a sufficient level of expertise to evaluate the Cost-benefit analysis. References 1. White J, Rassweiler A, Samhouri J, Stier A, et al.: Ecologists should not use statistical significance tests to interpret simulation model results. Oikos . 2014; 123 (4): 385-388 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Andrello M. Reviewer Report For: An adaptable toolkit to assess commercial fishery costs and benefits related to marine protected area network design [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :1234 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7880.r11831 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1234/v1#referee-response-11831 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 23 Feb 2017 Remi Daigle , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada 23 Feb 2017 Author Response "As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit ... Continue reading "As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit is presented quite clearly. The purpose of this article was also to assess the management of cod. A positive point of this point is the ability to assess the economic and ecological consequences of MPAs spatial planning. I like this point very much. This article lacks a sensitivity analysis of the model results to all the parameters used in the model. Many parameters are uncertain, so a sensitivity analysis will be helpful. Also, you should not use an ANOVA to examine simulation results (see White et al. 2014 1 )." Sensitivity Analysis: We agree that, in light of parameter estimate uncertainty, sensitivity analysis was an important addition to this study. We modified select parameters by 10% (or 1 y for integer values) for 25 replicate model runs and then compared the mean final net present value for the full 50 year time horizon to that of the full model (n = 100) in order to quantify influence of that parameter estimate on model output. We did this using the social discount rate of 0.015 because this is the value for which differences among the scenarios are most pronounced. We also focused only on the Targeted and Status Quo scenarios because they are the most extreme scenarios. We discovered that the most sensitive parameters are minimum age of catch and fecundity. Use of ANOVA: We removed any reference to the ANOVA. Instead we report Error statistics (mean absolute error, Root mean error, and mean absolute percent error) "There are other points that should be addressed:" - Egg production (0.5 million eggs per kg of female) is missing a reference. We included a new reference (Otter, 2004) to support this parameter value. - "Is the random walk for larval dispersal and adult movement realistic?" Not quite, it does not really respect possible home ranges (adherence to an area), but it is scaled to real movement patterns. The random walk is the simplest approximation, and we make it possible for the users to use the best available connectivity information. This could be data from tagging, bio-physical models, or in the absence of more accurate data, the user can simply use a random walk. - "A beta distribution for larval mortality seems fine; but a normal distribution for adult mortality can give values above 1 or below 0, which is problematic." We have added a step that eliminates any values above 1 or below 0 (M - M[M=0]) which given the cod parameters was exceedingly rare. - "Why was the size distribution of the newly generated MPAs based on that of the World Database of Protected Areas? Existing protected areas are not optimally sized." Andrello brings up an excellent point that the existing MPAs are not optimally sized. However, our intent of drawing from the existing size distribution was to work within the bounds set by previous management decisions. Our assumption here is that decision makers would consider the size of the MPA selected as reasonable based on precedent set in other areas. We revised the text at the end of the “Management strategies scenarios” section to reflect our rationale. - "The maximum distance scenario is the best in terms of biomass. Is there a "dramatic" increase in this scenario? Biomass attains more 100 kT in 2043 (the decreases). Compared to biomass in the other scenarios, this increase in relevant; What about the historical biomass?" We had problems with the “virtual_fish_ratio” of the original model, where 1 ‘virtual’ fish represented 20000 real fish. This led to unnecessary variability in the results. The model has been redesigned and the “virtual_fish_ratio” has been eliminated making the new version a truly individual based model. The biomass for the maximum distance scenario is not as high with the new model. - "It is not clear to me how the profitability ratio works." We revised the description to clarify how the profitability ratio was calculated (see first paragraph of the “Management strategies scenario” section. In the process, we discovered we had neglected to include one of the necessary citations, which is now added to the the References section. - "Please define the summary statistics used in Table 1. What are "distance" and "moratorium"? Are values averaged over the fifty years (2000-2050)?" We have edited the table legend to address these questions. "As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit is presented quite clearly. The purpose of this article was also to assess the management of cod. A positive point of this point is the ability to assess the economic and ecological consequences of MPAs spatial planning. I like this point very much. This article lacks a sensitivity analysis of the model results to all the parameters used in the model. Many parameters are uncertain, so a sensitivity analysis will be helpful. Also, you should not use an ANOVA to examine simulation results (see White et al. 2014 1 )." Sensitivity Analysis: We agree that, in light of parameter estimate uncertainty, sensitivity analysis was an important addition to this study. We modified select parameters by 10% (or 1 y for integer values) for 25 replicate model runs and then compared the mean final net present value for the full 50 year time horizon to that of the full model (n = 100) in order to quantify influence of that parameter estimate on model output. We did this using the social discount rate of 0.015 because this is the value for which differences among the scenarios are most pronounced. We also focused only on the Targeted and Status Quo scenarios because they are the most extreme scenarios. We discovered that the most sensitive parameters are minimum age of catch and fecundity. Use of ANOVA: We removed any reference to the ANOVA. Instead we report Error statistics (mean absolute error, Root mean error, and mean absolute percent error) "There are other points that should be addressed:" - Egg production (0.5 million eggs per kg of female) is missing a reference. We included a new reference (Otter, 2004) to support this parameter value. - "Is the random walk for larval dispersal and adult movement realistic?" Not quite, it does not really respect possible home ranges (adherence to an area), but it is scaled to real movement patterns. The random walk is the simplest approximation, and we make it possible for the users to use the best available connectivity information. This could be data from tagging, bio-physical models, or in the absence of more accurate data, the user can simply use a random walk. - "A beta distribution for larval mortality seems fine; but a normal distribution for adult mortality can give values above 1 or below 0, which is problematic." We have added a step that eliminates any values above 1 or below 0 (M - M[M=0]) which given the cod parameters was exceedingly rare. - "Why was the size distribution of the newly generated MPAs based on that of the World Database of Protected Areas? Existing protected areas are not optimally sized." Andrello brings up an excellent point that the existing MPAs are not optimally sized. However, our intent of drawing from the existing size distribution was to work within the bounds set by previous management decisions. Our assumption here is that decision makers would consider the size of the MPA selected as reasonable based on precedent set in other areas. We revised the text at the end of the “Management strategies scenarios” section to reflect our rationale. - "The maximum distance scenario is the best in terms of biomass. Is there a "dramatic" increase in this scenario? Biomass attains more 100 kT in 2043 (the decreases). Compared to biomass in the other scenarios, this increase in relevant; What about the historical biomass?" We had problems with the “virtual_fish_ratio” of the original model, where 1 ‘virtual’ fish represented 20000 real fish. This led to unnecessary variability in the results. The model has been redesigned and the “virtual_fish_ratio” has been eliminated making the new version a truly individual based model. The biomass for the maximum distance scenario is not as high with the new model. - "It is not clear to me how the profitability ratio works." We revised the description to clarify how the profitability ratio was calculated (see first paragraph of the “Management strategies scenario” section. In the process, we discovered we had neglected to include one of the necessary citations, which is now added to the the References section. - "Please define the summary statistics used in Table 1. What are "distance" and "moratorium"? Are values averaged over the fifty years (2000-2050)?" We have edited the table legend to address these questions. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 23 Feb 2017 Remi Daigle , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada 23 Feb 2017 Author Response "As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit ... Continue reading "As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit is presented quite clearly. The purpose of this article was also to assess the management of cod. A positive point of this point is the ability to assess the economic and ecological consequences of MPAs spatial planning. I like this point very much. This article lacks a sensitivity analysis of the model results to all the parameters used in the model. Many parameters are uncertain, so a sensitivity analysis will be helpful. Also, you should not use an ANOVA to examine simulation results (see White et al. 2014 1 )." Sensitivity Analysis: We agree that, in light of parameter estimate uncertainty, sensitivity analysis was an important addition to this study. We modified select parameters by 10% (or 1 y for integer values) for 25 replicate model runs and then compared the mean final net present value for the full 50 year time horizon to that of the full model (n = 100) in order to quantify influence of that parameter estimate on model output. We did this using the social discount rate of 0.015 because this is the value for which differences among the scenarios are most pronounced. We also focused only on the Targeted and Status Quo scenarios because they are the most extreme scenarios. We discovered that the most sensitive parameters are minimum age of catch and fecundity. Use of ANOVA: We removed any reference to the ANOVA. Instead we report Error statistics (mean absolute error, Root mean error, and mean absolute percent error) "There are other points that should be addressed:" - Egg production (0.5 million eggs per kg of female) is missing a reference. We included a new reference (Otter, 2004) to support this parameter value. - "Is the random walk for larval dispersal and adult movement realistic?" Not quite, it does not really respect possible home ranges (adherence to an area), but it is scaled to real movement patterns. The random walk is the simplest approximation, and we make it possible for the users to use the best available connectivity information. This could be data from tagging, bio-physical models, or in the absence of more accurate data, the user can simply use a random walk. - "A beta distribution for larval mortality seems fine; but a normal distribution for adult mortality can give values above 1 or below 0, which is problematic." We have added a step that eliminates any values above 1 or below 0 (M - M[M=0]) which given the cod parameters was exceedingly rare. - "Why was the size distribution of the newly generated MPAs based on that of the World Database of Protected Areas? Existing protected areas are not optimally sized." Andrello brings up an excellent point that the existing MPAs are not optimally sized. However, our intent of drawing from the existing size distribution was to work within the bounds set by previous management decisions. Our assumption here is that decision makers would consider the size of the MPA selected as reasonable based on precedent set in other areas. We revised the text at the end of the “Management strategies scenarios” section to reflect our rationale. - "The maximum distance scenario is the best in terms of biomass. Is there a "dramatic" increase in this scenario? Biomass attains more 100 kT in 2043 (the decreases). Compared to biomass in the other scenarios, this increase in relevant; What about the historical biomass?" We had problems with the “virtual_fish_ratio” of the original model, where 1 ‘virtual’ fish represented 20000 real fish. This led to unnecessary variability in the results. The model has been redesigned and the “virtual_fish_ratio” has been eliminated making the new version a truly individual based model. The biomass for the maximum distance scenario is not as high with the new model. - "It is not clear to me how the profitability ratio works." We revised the description to clarify how the profitability ratio was calculated (see first paragraph of the “Management strategies scenario” section. In the process, we discovered we had neglected to include one of the necessary citations, which is now added to the the References section. - "Please define the summary statistics used in Table 1. What are "distance" and "moratorium"? Are values averaged over the fifty years (2000-2050)?" We have edited the table legend to address these questions. "As a referee, I am asked to comment on "whether the work has been well designed, executed and discussed, not whether it is of importance or particular novelty". The toolkit is presented quite clearly. The purpose of this article was also to assess the management of cod. A positive point of this point is the ability to assess the economic and ecological consequences of MPAs spatial planning. I like this point very much. This article lacks a sensitivity analysis of the model results to all the parameters used in the model. Many parameters are uncertain, so a sensitivity analysis will be helpful. Also, you should not use an ANOVA to examine simulation results (see White et al. 2014 1 )." Sensitivity Analysis: We agree that, in light of parameter estimate uncertainty, sensitivity analysis was an important addition to this study. We modified select parameters by 10% (or 1 y for integer values) for 25 replicate model runs and then compared the mean final net present value for the full 50 year time horizon to that of the full model (n = 100) in order to quantify influence of that parameter estimate on model output. We did this using the social discount rate of 0.015 because this is the value for which differences among the scenarios are most pronounced. We also focused only on the Targeted and Status Quo scenarios because they are the most extreme scenarios. We discovered that the most sensitive parameters are minimum age of catch and fecundity. Use of ANOVA: We removed any reference to the ANOVA. Instead we report Error statistics (mean absolute error, Root mean error, and mean absolute percent error) "There are other points that should be addressed:" - Egg production (0.5 million eggs per kg of female) is missing a reference. We included a new reference (Otter, 2004) to support this parameter value. - "Is the random walk for larval dispersal and adult movement realistic?" Not quite, it does not really respect possible home ranges (adherence to an area), but it is scaled to real movement patterns. The random walk is the simplest approximation, and we make it possible for the users to use the best available connectivity information. This could be data from tagging, bio-physical models, or in the absence of more accurate data, the user can simply use a random walk. - "A beta distribution for larval mortality seems fine; but a normal distribution for adult mortality can give values above 1 or below 0, which is problematic." We have added a step that eliminates any values above 1 or below 0 (M - M[M=0]) which given the cod parameters was exceedingly rare. - "Why was the size distribution of the newly generated MPAs based on that of the World Database of Protected Areas? Existing protected areas are not optimally sized." Andrello brings up an excellent point that the existing MPAs are not optimally sized. However, our intent of drawing from the existing size distribution was to work within the bounds set by previous management decisions. Our assumption here is that decision makers would consider the size of the MPA selected as reasonable based on precedent set in other areas. We revised the text at the end of the “Management strategies scenarios” section to reflect our rationale. - "The maximum distance scenario is the best in terms of biomass. Is there a "dramatic" increase in this scenario? Biomass attains more 100 kT in 2043 (the decreases). Compared to biomass in the other scenarios, this increase in relevant; What about the historical biomass?" We had problems with the “virtual_fish_ratio” of the original model, where 1 ‘virtual’ fish represented 20000 real fish. This led to unnecessary variability in the results. The model has been redesigned and the “virtual_fish_ratio” has been eliminated making the new version a truly individual based model. The biomass for the maximum distance scenario is not as high with the new model. - "It is not clear to me how the profitability ratio works." We revised the description to clarify how the profitability ratio was calculated (see first paragraph of the “Management strategies scenario” section. In the process, we discovered we had neglected to include one of the necessary citations, which is now added to the the References section. - "Please define the summary statistics used in Table 1. What are "distance" and "moratorium"? Are values averaged over the fifty years (2000-2050)?" We have edited the table legend to address these questions. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Peres-Neto P. Reviewer Report For: An adaptable toolkit to assess commercial fishery costs and benefits related to marine protected area network design [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 4 :1234 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7880.r11198 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1234/v1#referee-response-11198 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 03 Dec 2015 Pedro Peres-Neto , Department of Biological Sciences, Université du Québec à Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7880.r11198 This paper reports a quantitative tool that can be used to analyze the economical impact of different network designs for marine protected areas. The framework is quite flexible and will provide a useful toolkit for discussing the pros and cons ... Continue reading READ ALL 