The present manuscript entitled "Growth, production and feed conversion performance of the gurami sago ( Osphronemus goramy Lacepède, 1801) strain in different aquaculture systems" examines the zootechnical performances of a giant gourami Osphronemus goramy strain called “gurami sago” in three different rearing structures: concrete ponds, floating net cages and earthen freshwater ponds. Overall, the study presented is quite simple but nevertheless interesting especially because some important gaps of knowledge remain in giant gourami aquaculture. Thus, results presented, showing better growth performance and feed conversion efficiency when giant gourami is reared in floating net cages, are relevant to the field. Having said that, I think that the present version of the manuscript may be improved in some ways. My main concerns are related to some methodological aspects as well as the presentation of the data. I addressed below some general comments regarding on the different sections of the manuscript. I hope the following comments help the authors in revising the manuscript. Introduction: The description of the rationale of the study could be improved. I suggest to go straight to the point with a first paragraph explaining why giant gourami is important in Indonesian aquaculture and avoiding too general information. Authors may provide some production figures and explain, based on relevant references, that giant gourami is an emblematic local species with high practical and market value, omnivorous with a strong vegetarian component as thus, a candidate species for improving sustainability in aquaculture. Authors should clearly state that, although giant gourami has been reared for decades in Indonesia, there are still important gaps of knowledge in its aquaculture. Another point that is true throughout the manuscript: be careful in the use of “strain” and “species”. These two terms seem to be used as synonyms in the manuscript although they refer to different concepts. I am not sure that the focus done on the strain used is so important in the Introduction. I think that the results provided here are useful for the species itself and not only this specific strain. Methods: Overall, I found the Methods well-presented and informative enough. Nevertheless, I have one important concern regarding the statistics. Indeed, water parameters were recorded monthly, meaning that only 3 values per rearing structures are available to perform the canonical discriminant functions (CDF). Considering the variations of most of the measured parameters that can be occur in rearing structures such as shallow earthen ponds sometimes on the same day, I think such analysis is not appropriate. Furthermore, Authors should state why only 10% of the fish were sampled every month. I guess is because giant gourami is sensitive to handling but this information may be interesting to add. Results: As I already mentioned, I have some doubts regarding the validity of the CDF using water quality data. I believe that the presentation of the results can be improved. Authors should provide visible standard deviations values and statistical differences in the Figures when it is appropriate and better axis scale in order to improve data readability. For allometric relationships, p-values for model estimates should be provided. Table 1: “Final food conversion rate (Fulton’s K)”, I guess it should be changed by “Condition factor (Fulton’s K)” Discussion: Although water quality is likely a key parameter to explain some of the observed differences in zootechnical performances among the rearing structures, unfortunately, since water parameter values were recorded only once a month, I think that there is not enough information provided to use these results. Conclusion: In the concluding paragraph, I expected clear recommendations for giant gourami aquaculture based on the findings from this study. References: I believe that some references relating to the aquaculture of the giant gourami are missing. I suggest to consider the following references which can be useful in the Introduction and Discussion: FAO (2019) Cultured Aquatic Species Information Programme. Osphronemus goramy. Cultured Aquatic Species Information Programme. Text by Caruso, D., Arifin, Z.O., Subagja, J., Jacques Slembrouck, J. and New, M. In: FAO Fisheries and Aquaculture Department [online]. Rome. Updated 26 September 2019. Arifin O.Z., Slembrouck J., Subagja J., Pouil S., Yani A., Asependi A., Kristanto A.H., Legendre M. (2020). New insights into giant gourami (Osphronemus goramy) reproductive biology and egg production control. Aquaculture 519: 734743. 1 Kristanto A.H., Slembrouck J., Subagja J.,Pouil S., Arifin O.Z., Prakoso V.A., Legendre M. (2020). Egg and fry production of giant gourami (Osphronemus goramy): Rearing practices and recommendations for future research. Journal of the World Aquaculture Society 51: 119-138. 2 