My distinguished colleagues from the University of Tennessee in Memphis have performed an innovative set of complex studies seeking to elucidate somatic mutation variants in patients with MS; across the various clinical subtypes, and compared to normal subjects. Quite surprising to this reviewer, the authors identified a TPNO-1 binding domain change of hnRNPA1-M9; an RNA binding protein that is among the first to be shuttled into and out of the nucleus. Perhaps even more conspicuous is that these somatic modifications are directly adjacent to well characterized mutations that are associated with the development of ALS (i.e. accelerated motor neuron disease of the upper and lower motor neuron compartments). My colleagues further show that 8/12 SNVs are shown to occur in primary progressive MS (a slowly and insidiously progressive loss of the upper motor neuron compartment of the CNS. They further elucidated six novel SNVs; with substitutions within the MS IgG epitope of M9 (AA 293-304). The authors proceed to provide a SNV rate stratification across normal subjects vs clinical subtypes of MS. Here they found the following corresponding rates: PPMS- 2.21% SPMS- 1.69% RRMS- 0.56% Normal human subjects = 0% Much has been achieved with the application of genome wide association studies (GWAS), such as the identification of a linkage between the IL-2 and IL-7 receptor genes; immune regulatory elements that dovetail nicely with the higher risk of MS developing in subjects who are also positive for the MHC Class II HLADR21501B1 (2 copies 1 copy with respect to relative risk). Alternately, MHC Class I HLA-A*02 confers a protective influence. Indeed, it is intriguing that most of the SNPs are associated with CD4+T cell regulation. Contemporary screening techniques have further evolved with even greater refinement in genetic element identification conferring risk of MS by virtue of the utilization of the powerful technique of whole exome sequencing (WES), that provides important perspective on differential gene expression mechanisms. Finally, the GWAS discovery associated with MS of the CYP27B1 gene, has particular relevance to an epigenetic disorder such as MS, given that this gene encodes for the critical enzyme that serves to transform the 25-OH-D form to the 1,25-OH-D active form of vitamin D. With respect to the pathophysiologic relevance of the hnRNPA1 variants, these appear to alter neuronal function, and ultimately culminate in neurodegeneration, in conjunction with serving a role in the important regulation of viral synthesis (another highly conspicuous epigenetic factor with special relevance to MS and related disorders). As the authors rightly point out, to date the somatic mutations in question and under investigation have only been elucidated from PBMCs of MS patients. This work, if confirmed, may have special and critical relevance to the highly enigmatic phenomenology of what determine the transition from a relapsing to a progressive form of MS (or a progressive form from the inception without an antecedent relapsing and adaptive immune phase of the disorder), and such studies might shed light on the pathobiological underpinnings of axonal and neuronal degeneration; the histopathological signatures of what we currently believe to constitute the signature of irreversible (at least so far) neurologic disability with corresponding loss of functional capabilities. This work, contributes to our deeper understanding of the potential mechanisms of disease that figure prominently in influencing progression and neurodegeneration for MS in particular, but may also shed light on those mechanisms that underly neurodegenerative disorders in general. The authors are to be congratulated for this fine contribution to the literature.