The title is appropriate for the content of the article. However, there is a spelling mistake since the correct genus is Coptodon , instead of Copte don as the authors wrote it . The abstract concisely summarizes the ideas presented in the article. The authors explain with clarity their points of view about the paper under study. Conclusions are justified on the basis of the analysis performed. The information given is adequate, and discussed with clarity. Multiple factors converge on decision making, therefore studies that bring together morphology, life cycles, ecology, genetics, and bioinformatics are desirable to improve our comprehension about species, in particular those that come from understudied localities. Falade et al (2016) identified fish specimens at species level by morphology, later analyzing genes COI and 16S rRNA with the aim of correlating morphologic and genetic data. Miller et al (2017) made an objection to the bioinformatic methodology employed by Falade et al ., stating that it was “nearly impossible to fail to obtain a taxonomic name for each sequence”. Miller et al objected particularly one sequence that produced no hits on BOLD database, a problem also addressed by Falade in their original paper. The absence of genetic sequences in public databases from specimens of remote or understudied areas is a problem that researchers from those areas face quite frequently. Even though Miller et al (2017) are correct in addressing the methodology shortness in Falade’s work, it is important to remark that Falade et al . made an important contribution in submitting genetic sequences from 3 fish species of the underrepresented country Nigeria to public databases such as GeneBank and BOLD. Hopefully, there will be more interdisciplinary studies on Nigerian fish fauna. In a more philosophical note, none of the branches of biology can alone answer all the questions, or explain or predict the totality of biological phenomena. In particular, definition of the concept “species” is under discussion even today. Molecular biology and bioinformatics are two of the many tools that are available to elucidate the boundaries between 2 species. For example, to what extent a similarity percent of nearly 100%, based on the study of certain genes in a certain biological group, can be taken as an indicator that two species are different? That percent seems to be different for different taxa, and also varies depending on the genes under study. Bioinformatic tools to analyze genetic data are improving at a fast pace, but it is still important not to underestimate information about morphology, ecology, life cycles, etc. to complete the picture of each taxa. It is also worth noting that the improvement of bioinformatics tools relies on pre-existing information, and when that information is missing there might be a bit of a problem.