The disease burden associated with nervous system white matter (myelin) changes is significant. Newer imaging modalities/image analyses are enabling the detection of white matter changes in the clinic. The upshot of this is that there is a need for robust systems for the study of the mechanisms underlying demyelination/dysmyelination and systems in which to study remyelination. A significant amount of the research to address these issues relies on the use of in-vivo rodent experiments. Many of which fall into the moderate category of in-vivo procedure at a minimum. This work describes a relatively straight-forward model system which could replace, or be used to inform, some of the in-vivo work. The rationale is clear and the methods are thoroughly described. The description and interpretation of the data is robust, and the suggested utility of the method is proportionate. The manuscript would be improved further by considering the following: A short section describing similar/or equivalent in-vitro systems ideally describing the advantage of the system described. Clarification regarding the value of having a system that is not part of a whole system (in the research highlights this is presented as a strength, but why is not made explicit). The cultures have been exploited for a number of features, and this is supported by the data that is presented – however some analysis of the cellular organisation (2D/3D) of the cultures and the variability in this would be very useful as other researchers consider whether the system is appropriate for the experimental questions that want to address using the culture. It would also enable the myelination to be seen in a different orientation, and support the data described. One approach to this would be to section the cultures, possibly using an en-face approach as the cultures are grown on coverslips. This approach has been used in other organoid/mini-brain culture analyses. A key issue with the development of new methods is the dissemination to other groups, the authors report that the model could be readily adopted in other labs equipped for cell culture. Has this happened? Irrespective of whether the model has been used to test a hypothesis elsewhere, it would be useful to know that a second group working from the protocols has reported similar findings, this will increase confidence in the model. Re the methods, describe briefly the sterilisation step for the live imaging dishes. Minor points a careful final proof-read is needed e.g. flurobite p5 needs to be corrected. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 