The article is clear and to the point, and the abstract provides an adequate summary of the article, the methods are adequately described, conclusions are balanced and justified, and data are available in a usable format. I do have a few comments though: I have a concern that the use of kmeans clustering assigns individuals to one of the two clusters without any estimate of posterior probability of the assignment. Although the examples shown in Figure 1 imply there is little uncertainty in these assignments, it is unclear whether that is always the case, or whether there are some more ambiguous cases. It would be much more reassuring to use a clustering algorithm that allows estimation of posterior probability of cluster assignment (such as K-nearest neighbors in the "classify" package). Then I would immediately ask, are the biological / annotation mismatches all called with high confidence (say, 99%), or are some ambiguous (e.g. 49%)? The article could have greater impact if the authors provided a ready-to-use tool for others to do the same check. It doesn't have to be fancy; it could be provided even just by providing .RData objects for the fitted classifer object used for the clustering. The "How to replicate my analysis" section on https://github.com/min110/mislabeled.samples.identification README.md is blank, and should be filled in. PURELY OPTIONAL: a paper of mine also points out the frequency of sample duplication, including an instance of several dozen RNA aliquot mix-ups in TCGA [1], should you find it relevant to cite. References 1. Waldron L, Riester M, Ramos M, Parmigiani G, et al.: The Doppelgänger Effect: Hidden Duplicates in Databases of Transcriptome Profiles. J Natl Cancer Inst . 2016; 108 (11). PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Waldron L. Reviewer Report For: Whose sample is it anyway? Widespread misannotation of samples in transcriptomics studies [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2103 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10437.r16396 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2103/v2#referee-response-16396 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 29 Mar 2017 Lilah Toker , University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 29 Mar 2017 Author Response The decision to use sex genes was based on their unique properties – they are only expressed in subjects with a specific sex, and when expressed, their expression ... Continue reading The decision to use sex genes was based on their unique properties – they are only expressed in subjects with a specific sex, and when expressed, their expression is high. Samples where the difference between the expression level of the male and female genes is small, often represent cases with cancer (as discussed in the manuscript) or poor quality samples. As explained in the manuscript, we manually validated the expression profiles of sex-specific genes in all of the samples assigned as “mislabelled” and excluded all the ambiguously assigned samples. Thus the reported proportion of mislabelled samples is based on only on samples with no assignment uncertainty. Supplementary Figure S2 contains plots similar to those presented in Figure 1, for all studies included in our analysis. We now added an R code assigning biological gender to study samples: https://github.com/min110/mislabeled.samples.identification/tree/master/Rscripts/GetBioGender.R We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to the missing part. This part is now filled in. The decision to use sex genes was based on their unique properties – they are only expressed in subjects with a specific sex, and when expressed, their expression is high. Samples where the difference between the expression level of the male and female genes is small, often represent cases with cancer (as discussed in the manuscript) or poor quality samples. As explained in the manuscript, we manually validated the expression profiles of sex-specific genes in all of the samples assigned as “mislabelled” and excluded all the ambiguously assigned samples. Thus the reported proportion of mislabelled samples is based on only on samples with no assignment uncertainty. Supplementary Figure S2 contains plots similar to those presented in Figure 1, for all studies included in our analysis. We now added an R code assigning biological gender to study samples: https://github.com/min110/mislabeled.samples.identification/tree/master/Rscripts/GetBioGender.R We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to the missing part. This part is now filled in. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 29 Mar 2017 Lilah Toker , University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada 29 Mar 2017 Author Response The decision to use sex genes was based on their unique properties – they are only expressed in subjects with a specific sex, and when expressed, their expression ... Continue reading The decision to use sex genes was based on their unique properties – they are only expressed in subjects with a specific sex, and when expressed, their expression is high. Samples where the difference between the expression level of the male and female genes is small, often represent cases with cancer (as discussed in the manuscript) or poor quality samples. As explained in the manuscript, we manually validated the expression profiles of sex-specific genes in all of the samples assigned as “mislabelled” and excluded all the ambiguously assigned samples. Thus the reported proportion of mislabelled samples is based on only on samples with no assignment uncertainty. Supplementary Figure S2 contains plots similar to those presented in Figure 1, for all studies included in our analysis. We now added an R code assigning biological gender to study samples: https://github.com/min110/mislabeled.samples.identification/tree/master/Rscripts/GetBioGender.R We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to the missing part. This part is now filled in. The decision to use sex genes was based on their unique properties – they are only expressed in subjects with a specific sex, and when expressed, their expression is high. Samples where the difference between the expression level of the male and female genes is small, often represent cases with cancer (as discussed in the manuscript) or poor quality samples. As explained in the manuscript, we manually validated the expression profiles of sex-specific genes in all of the samples assigned as “mislabelled” and excluded all the ambiguously assigned samples. Thus the reported proportion of mislabelled samples is based on only on samples with no assignment uncertainty. Supplementary Figure S2 contains plots similar to those presented in Figure 1, for all studies included in our analysis. We now added an R code assigning biological gender to study samples: https://github.com/min110/mislabeled.samples.identification/tree/master/Rscripts/GetBioGender.R We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to the missing part. This part is now filled in. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 30 Aug 2016 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: van Bokhoven H. Reviewer Report For: Whose sample is it anyway? Widespread misannotation of samples in transcriptomics studies [version 2; peer review: 2 approved, 1 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2103 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10200.r16144 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2103/v1#referee-response-16144 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 22 Sep 2016 Hans van Bokhoven , Department of Human Genetics & Department of Cognitive Neuroscinders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour ences, Radboud University Medical Center , Nijmegen, The Netherlands Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10200.r16144 This article by Toker et al. reports a retrospective biostatistical analysis of the data reported in 70 RNA expression studies to identify the possible misannotation of samples used in these studies. Their analysis is based on the expression of gender-specific ... Continue reading READ ALL 