In this paper, Kancherla and colleagues present the Epiviz Component Library, an open source reusable and extensible data visualization library and application framework for functional genomic data. According to the authors, the Epiviz component library is the first genomic data visualization library based on web components. The library provides an easy and efficient way for bioinformatics developers to add interactive data visualization features to their web applications or datasets with minimal programming experience. Overall, I found the tools describe in the paper very useful and promising. It makes complex visualization of multiple types of omics data easy and convenient. The new infrastructure is built upon the established epiviz tool that the group has developed earlier. This group is highly experienced in genomics data visualization and are developing state-of-art infrastructure using the latest technologies. The utilities of the tools great outweigh their limitations and shortcomings. I only have a few minor points. Figure 3. In this use case, I don’t quite understand the connection between the gene expression scatter plot and the other panel. For me, the figure is more like the demonstration of all types of plots it can produce. It is not obvious what biological insight can be gleaned from the plots. It is unclear what kind of biological question the user is trying to ask when making these plots. To be fair, this is always difficult. In most cases, discovery is made unintentionally, out of luck. Hence just demonstrating all the plotting capabilities is probably okay. If so, may be a systematic catalog of all the plots that can be produced will be helpful. Figure 6 is very informative and interesting. I noticed that the numbers of bytes transferred for summarized and unsummarized backends are exactly the same for 10K, 100K and 1M, but dramatically different for 10M, 100M and chr. Why is that? It would be very helpful to the general audience if the authors can articulate in more details, and intuitively, the benefits and advantages of web components-based visualization library for genomics data, compared to the current technologies. 