 General comments This study examined the relationship between diurnal changes in the chemical properties and the pro-oxidant and pro-inflammatory activities of PM2.5 collected in Los Angeles area. The hypothesis was that compared to primary, morning PM (am-PM), secondary PM in the afternoon (pm-PM) would induce a stronger inflammatory response in microglial cells. PM were collected using an aerosol-into-liquid collection system. Cellular endpoints included nitric oxide induction and the expression of IL-1b, IL-6 and MCP-1 genes. Characterization of PM included analyses of metal and trace elements, total carbon and inorganic ions. The findings were contrary to the authors’ expectation. Morning PM had stronger effects in inducing NO production and up-regulating IL-1b, IL-6 and MCP-1 gene expression than pm-PM. It was concluded that the diurnal differences between am-PM and pm-PM may be caused by the greater content of transition metals and water-insoluble organic carbon of am-PM (primary PM). This work has two strengths: 1) diurnal changes in the chemical properties and adverse health effects of ambient PM have not been well studied and 2) the use of aerosol-into-liquid collection system reduces the loss of PM components. Specific comments Fig. 1. The highest PM concentration was 20 μg/ml. The authors indicated that “The 10 μg/ml dose was chosen as below threshold for metabolic impairment based on prior studies from our group”. Was metabolic impairment assessed at 20 μg/ml? If yes, was there any cellular injury? Were endotoxin levels in these PM samples measured? Was there any difference between am-PM and pm-PM? The authors explained the rationale for not using DTT and DCF-DA assays. What was the rationale for selecting NO instead of other indicators (e.g., HO-1 or GSH/GSSG) to assess oxidative stress? Fig. 2. What are the reasons that there is no * above pm-PM2.5 in Figures 2A (IL-1b) and 2C (MCP-1)? Were pm-PM2.5-induced increases of IL-1b and MCP-1 significantly different from respective control? What is the p-value of am-PM2.5 vs. pm-PM2.5 in Fig. 2A? Fig. 3A, 3B and 3C (As, Co, Cr, Fe, Mn and Ni). Are the differences between am-PM and pm-PM statistically significant? 