The manuscript by Munera et al. performed an in silico analysis of the major rat allergen Rat n 1, and explored cross-reactive epitopes and pheromone linking capacity among Rat n 1 and homologous allergens from domestic pets. The analysis is interesting from a molecular-structural point of view, but the paper needs to be put in context in the allergy field, including previous literature. The structures of Rat n 1 and Mus m 1 were published in Nature in 1992 and reported “the role of these proteins in pheromone transport” and elaborated on “the structural basis of ligand binding”. This publication should be cited, and the information about the ligand binding taken into consideration for the analysis performed. For example, how the ligands analyzed compare to the pheromones reported in the paper would be very interesting. This is the reference: Bcskei Z, Groom CR, Flower DR, Wright CE, Phillips SEV, Cavaggioni A, Findlay JBC, North ACT. Pheromone binding to two rodent urinary proteins revealed by X-ray crystallography. Nature 1992; 360:186–188. 1 Therefore, the sentence in page 9: “Of the lipocalin family, only Mus m 1 has been characterized for pheromone linking” needs correction. Another lipocalin whose ligand was identified is cockroach Bla g 4, and this study should be cited and the ligand analyzed and compared with the ones used in this study for a comment in the discussion. Ref: The major cockroach allergen Bla g 4 binds tyramine and octopamine. Offermann LR, Chan SL, Osinski T, Tan YW, Chew FT, Sivaraman J, Mok YK, Minor W, Chruszcz M. Mol Immunol. 2014 Jul;60(1):86-94. 2 Mapping of B and T cell epitopes has been performed before for some lipocalins (i.e. Dr. Virtanen’s group in Finland). It would be good if the in silico analysis could be related to experimentally identified epitopes, and to discuss the results in the context of previous studies, such as: Bayard C, Siddique AB, Berzins K, Troye-Blomberg M, Hellman U, Vesterberg O. Mapping of IgE binding regions in the major rat urinary protein, alpha 2u-globulin, using overlapping peptides. Immunol Invest. 1999 Sep-Dec;28(5-6):323-38. 3 Zeiler T, Mrvi R, Rautiainen J, Rytknen-Nissinen M, Vilja P, Taivainen A, Kauppinen J, Virtanen T. T cell epitopes of a lipocalin allergen colocalize with the conserved regions of the molecule. J Immunol. 1999 Feb 1;162(3):1415-22. 4 Kinnunen T, Buhot C, Nnen A, Rytknen-Nissinen M, Saarelainen S, Pouvelle-Moratille S, Rautiainen J, Taivainen A, Maillre B, Mrvi R, Virtanen T. The immunodominant epitope of lipocalin allergen Bos d 2 is suboptimal for human T cells. Eur J Immunol. 2003 Jun;33(6):1717-26. 5 Immonen A, Farci S, Taivainen A, Partanen J, Pouvelle-Moratille S, Nnen A, Kinnunen T, Saarelainen S, Rytknen-Nissinen M, Maillere B, Virtanen T. T cell epitope-containing peptides of the major dog allergen Can f 1 as candidates for allergen immunotherapy. J Immunol. 2005 Sep 15;175(6):3614-20. 6 Immonen A, Kinnunen T, Sirven P, Taivainen A, Houitte D, Persaari J, Nnen A, Saarelainen S, Rytknen-Nissinen M, Maillere B, Virtanen T. The major horse allergen Equ c 1 contains one immunodominant region of T cell epitopes. Clin Exp Allergy. 2007 Jun;37(6):939-47. 7 The rationale for selecting Can f 6 for the study should be explained since there are other dog lipocalins (Can f 1, Can f 2, Can f 4). Abstract-results: a) “The overlapping structures assay”. The use of “analysis” instead of “assay” is best. b) “docking …revealed the active site”. The expression “active site” is especially used for enzymes, and for binding without catalytic activity involved the term “binding site” might be more appropriate. The authors need to correct where it applies (e.g. page 5, line 21). c) If Rat n 1 shares 52% amino acid identity with each of the four allergens, then the sentence is correct, but this might need revision if the percentages are different for each animal. In contrast, in Results, line 6, and in the discussion (third paragraph) 62% identity is reported. The authors should revise this inconsistency. Discussion, line 4 of third paragraph: “high percentage of identity” is better than “high conservation state”. In the introduction, line 20: “Among patients allergic to rat, 73% and 87% reacted to Rat n 1 in dust”. Not clear why there are two percentages in this sentence. Is some information missing? Line 23-24: The reference above Bcskei et al. Nature 1992 should be added to the explanation of the structure of Rat n 1. Similarly, under methods section: “Construction of 3D models”, the pdb codes of the structures should be provided. In Table 3: The abbreviations are not clear: If LE is discontinuous epitope (table title), then why in Figure 3 LE are linear epitopes? Are TCE, T-cell epitopes? Please define abbreviations. The proper allergen nomenclature should be used to name lipocalins from hamster: Phod s 1, Mes a 1 (instead of Pho 21kD) in page 8 (discussion, second paragraph). Nomenclature can be found in the official WHO/IUIS Allergen Nomenclature database ( www.allergen.org ). Bet v 1 is not a lipocalin family member as indicated in paragraph 4 of the discussion. This needs to be corrected. Minor comments: Table 1: species names should be in italics Page 5, line 11, “…constituted by 10 amino acid residues…” Legend to Figure 5: “discontinuous epitopes” instead of “epitopes discontinues”. Discussion: second paragraph: “lipocalin family” instead of “lipocal infamily”. Paragraph 4 of discussion: use of “enormous” should be avoided. Before last paragraph of discussion: “This is the first exploration of the capacity of Rat n 1 to bind pheromones”. This is an in silico assay, and the study mentioned above (Bcskei et al) proved pheromone binding by X-ray crystallography. 