The authors describe a rare reported manifestation of Scrub Typhus namely acute pyelonephritis and hearing loss which improved with treatment. Acute pyelonephritis has been reported once as a case report from China and hearing loss in another six cases. The case is well described and convincing in that clinical features favor acute pyelonephritis. However since authors are describing a manifestation for the first time a more detailed account would have been better. For example, in view of negative cultures, treatment received prior to entry could have been listed. The authors base their conclusion on a chance sending of scrub IgM which came positive whereas learning points which serve as pointers to the diagnosis may be mentioned in discussion. The presence of liver dysfunction, anemia and fever would have merited investigation with other common tropical infections such as malaria, which can also involve the kidneys. Unusual features in this description are absence of eschar, thrombocytopenia for scrub typhus and absence of pyuria. The absence of pyuria in 1/3 rd cases as observed in a previous prospective study, had only 6% of diabetics in their cohort and the diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis was mainly based on clinical criteria 1 . The sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis on urine investigations are: urinalysis (10 WBCs/high power field), 58%–82% and 65%–86%; positive leukocyte esterase, 74%–96% and 94%–98%; nitrite, 35%–85% and 92%–100%; and leukocyte esterase plus nitrite tests, 75%–84% and 82%–89% respectively 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 . The sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis for acute pyelonephritis based on perinephric fat stranding was 72% and 60%. It is affected by age, sex and renal function and may not be a particularly useful tool for the diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis 6 . Bilateral enlarged kidneys, renal angle tenderness with associated vomiting are also observed in patients with infection or drug related acute interstitial nephritis. However, the absence of pyuria points against the diagnosis. Certainly, scrub typhus can cause inflammation of organs due to endothelial infection, vasculitis and increases endothelial permeability. This report highlights the importance of keeping a high index of suspicion for this easily treatable disease especially in endemic areas. The article can be accepted as approved with caveats stated above. 