This study is on gynecological side effects of adjuvant tamoxifen in Iraqi women after breast cancer treatment. Aim of the study is to classify unreported gynecological side effects and whether menopausal status leads to differential effects. This aim has been studied before, however the authors do not seem to be familiar with earlier studies on the differential gynecological side effects of tamoxifen. Some more detailed comment are given: INTRODUCTION The pharmacological background of the side effects in the introduction is not sufficient. The authors need to describe the differential side effects of tamoxifen depending of the estrogen level of the patient. In premenopausal women tamoxifen acts as an anti-estrogen, an estrogen antagonist, on the endometrium [comparable as clomifen citrate] and as ovulation induction on the ovaries, causing multiple ovarian cysts. This often causes amenorrhoea in premenopausal women, which can be misinterpreted as postmenopause, if last menstrual cycle is taken as a measure. However, these ovarian cysts produce high levels of estradiol [therefor these women have no hot flushes although they have no menstrual periods]. References Mourits MJ, de Vries EG, ten Hoor KA, van der Zee AG, Willemse PH.Mourits MJ, et al. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3787-8; author reply 3788-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2007.11.1633.J Clin Oncol. 2007. PMID: 17704431 1 Beware of amenorrhea during tamoxifen : it may be a wolf in sheep' s clothing. Ovarian tumors in postmenopausal breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen I Cohen, Y Beyth, R Tepper, et al. Gynecol Oncol, 60 (1996), pp. 54-58 2 MJE Mourits, EGE De Vries, PHB Willemse, et al. Ovarian cysts in women receiving tamoxifen for breast cancer Br J Cancer, 79 (1999), pp. 1761-1764 3 In the low-E2 environment in postmenopausal women, tamoxifen acts as an estrogen- agonist on the endometrium. This results in thickened endometrium after long term use. However, this ET is not caused by proliferated endometrial epithelium, but by thickened stroma. Therefore, endometrial biopsies in postmenopausal women with enlarged ET usually result in little if any endometrial tissue. Not the epithelium, but the stroma is enlarged. Reference Discrepancy between ultrasonography and hysteroscopy and histology of endometrium in postmenopausal breast cancer patients using tamoxifen . Mourits MJ, Van der Zee AG, Willemse PH, Ten Hoor KA, Hollema H, De Vries EG.Mourits MJ, et al. Gynecol Oncol. 1999 Apr;73(1):21-6. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1998.5316.Gynecol Oncol. 1999. PMID: 10094875 4 STUDY DESIGN It is not clear what the primary outcome measure is. The authors aim to classify 'unreported gynecological side effects' and ' whether menopausal status leads to differential effects'. Questions: What would than be their outcome measure and with what consequences? ET?, for what reason would ET be interesting, because it is not a diseases, and does not need to be treated. Gynecological abnormalities? Ovarian cysts? If the aim is to classify 'unreported' gynecological side effects, the authors should give an extensive review about 'what has been reported' to know what is 'unreported'. The rationale of the sample size calculation is not clear to me. What is meant by a 'prevalence of ET' [endometrial thickness] of 12% in pre- and 10.6% in postmenopausal women, to prove what? What was defined as endometrial pathology? It is not clear whether the study is a prospective cohort study - which is suggested by the study design description and recruitment of new[?] patients between Dec 2018 until May 2019 - or a retrospective study - which is written in the Study Limitations paragraph - 'The retrospective nature of the study is a potential bias.' Thi is very confusing. Another problem is that it is not clearly described at what moment the baseline US was performed. Was T0/baseline before starting tamoxifen? How long after chemotherapy? There is a problem with the definition 'premenopausal' and 'postmenopausal'. As many young women on tamoxifen have no menstrual periods while on medication due to anovulation through hyperstimulated ovarian cysts. This issue has not been addressed properly. How many women were on LHRH antagonists? Women needed to be on tamoxifen for at least three months, a follow up at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months was performed / reported. However it is not clear how many women were followed up for the total duration of the study. Neither is the end of the study in time reported. RESULTS The authors report on endometrial thickness [ET] but do not report on the 'Swiss cheese' aspect of the postmenopausal endometrium after long term tamoxifen exposure. Question - did they not observe this, or did they not report on it? The authors do report on ' the risk of ET', however ET is not a disease. Question - what do the authors mean by ' risk of ET'? DISCUSSION In the discussion, the authors do not report separately the literature on pre- and postmenopausal women, which needs to be done, given the differential effects of tamoxifen in these both groups. The authors miss some important studies many years ago, which addressed these issues on a more causal and explanatory level. These need to be studied for a comprehensive discussion. IN CONCLUSION Although the authors did a great job in performing many US, in many breast cancer patients, this study does not add to the knowledge and understanding of tamoxifen effects on the female genital tract, due to the above mentioned comments. Only thorough re-writing of this paper with a clear clinical aim, could make it worthwhile publishing. 