This observational study by Hein and Jacobsen examines the use of a portable respiratory polygraphy device for monitoring of obese mothers for respiratory depression the first night after caesarean section performed with bupivacaine/morphine/fentanyl spinal anaesthesia. The topic is interesting and relevant, as an increasing number of parturients is expected to present with high antenatal BMI in the future. A total of 20 women were monitored the first night after caesarean section. The authors conclude that the use of the polygraphy device is cumbersome and that obstructive events and episodes of desaturation were not commonly synchronized. Comments: Abstract: For the reader not familiar with this technique or the apnoe/hypopnea index (AHI), it is very difficult to interpret the results, e.g. AHI values of 5-15? And what does an ODI of 4.4 mean? For these reasons, the abstract is simply difficult to read. The introduction is a bit too long. The authors should consider omitting e.g. the sentence starting with Dahan in the first paragraph, and the second paragraph on definition of respiratory depression. Methods and results: Parts of the text could be written more clearly, e.g. page 4 top: Additive medication to treat side effects, such as pain..??? Is pain a side effect? The description of AHI, ODI etc. is very technical. Again, it is difficult for the reader not familiar with the technique, to interpret the values and relate them to the clinical setting. What is the clinical relevance of mild AHI/ ODI, mean nadir SpO 2 , mean and max TcCO 2 ? The same applies to the ESS score: is a score of e.g. 5 good or bad? Did the women receive opioids during the study period? (Respiratory depression could be caused by ex. oral opioids). Discussion: Could be shortened. Figure 2 is difficult to read. Could some of the results be presented in a table? The high number of abbreviations makes the paper more difficult to read. The cohort described/studied by Subramani et al . (reference 20) might not be comparable with the group studied in this paper. In summary, a nice paper on an interesting and relevant topic but it would benefit from a revision. Review performed by MD Nina Stockfleth Buch, Department of Anesthesiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark (approved by professor Lone Nikolajsen, Department of Anesthesiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark). 