Vicedo et al . report a computational analysis sparked by the interesting findings of Yona et al. (2012) of yeast duplication of chrIII having a selective advantage in the face of heat stress. Yona et al . did not fully mechanistically explain the reason chrIII aneuploidy is the one selected for, so Vicedo et al . have proposed a hypothesis: that chrIII has a substantially lower number of disordered proteins. They test this computationally, followed by some additional bioinformatics and “by hand” characterization of chrIII genes (and some other regions of interest following from Yona et al .). The difficulty here is assigning cause vs. “permissive”. As Vicedo et al . report, the disorder hypothesis has limited predictive value because chrX genes also have a low disorder (on average), so the size of the chromosome is posed as the other important variable. However, Vicedo et al . seem to be proposing that “low disorder” is good for heat resistance per se (I grant them this) – and that overexpression of low disorder proteins is even better. I have difficulty with this second step, because the way the experiment of Yona et al . was done, it could easily be that there are “heat resistance proteins” on chrIII and that the overall duplication of chrIII is tolerated in the context of the advantage of overexpression those genes. But if this was the end of the story it would be hard to make a determination of whether this is a viable hypothesis. However, there is an obvious problem: the work of Yona et al. identified 17 genes on chrIII that appear to be the main culprits for the heat resistance (at least most of them). I see no mention of these 17 in Vicedo et al . nor of the 22 control genes tested by Yona et al . If Vicedo et al. are right then there should be a difference in the disorder of these two sets of proteins. Otherwise, the observations might still be relevant, but that the orderedness of chrIII proteins might be permissive for overexpression of the actual heat-resistance genes via aneuploidy. In that case it might be the rest of the proteins on chrIII that have the orderedness properties, not the 17. (Note that I was not familiar with the Yona work before this review and I have not checked to see if Yona et al. or others have done any followup.) Given the omission of discussion of the 17, the sections of this paper on network analysis, GO and localization cannot be interpreted with confidence. While I have some quibbles about them I would rather wait to see the response to the comments above.