The Case Report is extremely well written but, unfortunately, I feel that the basic premise of the paper is fundamentally flawed. The authors argue that their patient with SCLC and hyponatremia did not have SIADH because plasma ADH levels were not elevated. Since ANP levels were high, the authors propose that ectopic secretion of ANP was the cause of hyponatremia. There are several problems with their argument. First, unless done in a research laboratory, plasma ADH levels are extremely unreliable and are not recommended. Second, even if they were measured correctly, ADH levels do not have to be to be abnormal in patients with hyponatremia; they merely have to be measurable , because ADH should be unmeasurable if the serum sodium is less than 135. Third, even if ectopic ANP were the primary cause of hyponatremia, ADH levels would still be expected to be elevated secondarily because hypovolemia resulting from ANP-induced sodium wasting should stimulate ADH secretion from the posterior pituitary; i.e. ADH is inappropriately high, but not ectopically secreted. Finally, like ADH levels, the finding of elevated ANP levels does not prove ectopic secretion (though the authors are correct that ectopic secretion of ANP is common in SCLC). ANP is secondarily high in all causes of SIADH, because water retention expands plasma volume which results in ANP secretion and secondary natriuresis. The fact that their patient was clinically euvolemic is more consistent with secondary secretion of ANP in response to water retention from SIADH. If the primary problem were ectopic ANP and inappropriate natriuresis, the patient should have looked hypovolemic. The fact that their patient failed to respond to demeclocycline is not definitive some patients may not respond to maximum doses; furthermore, response to the drug would not distinguish between SIADH and secondary secretion of ADH due to ANP-induced hypovolemia. The paper would have been more interesting if the authors had arranged for measurement of vasopressin levels in a research laboratory and if they had treated their patient with V2-receptor antagonist. There are reported cases of hyponatremia with low levels of ADH, raising the possibility that some tumors secrete a substance that is not detected immunologically as ADH, but which acts as an antidiuretic hormone. The high U osm is evidence that their patient was secreting an antidiuretic hormone they might not have been able to measure it because of problems with their assay or because their patient was secreting an antidiuretic hormone immunologically distinct from vasopressin; unfortunately we cant tell which is true. In addition to the fundamental flaw that I see in the authors argument, they make some statements that I dont agree with. For example, they say that water restriction would worsen hyponatremia caused by primary sodium loss. Regardless of the underlying causes, the serum sodium falls because net water intake exceeds net water loss. All else being equal, restriction of water intake always makes the serum sodium go up. If the patient is hypovolemic, the serum sodium concentration will rise with water restriction but hypovolemia will worsen.