The manuscript entitled “Analysis of the Arabidopsis organellar rhomboid At1g74140 transcript population uncovered splicing patterns different from its close relative At1g74130” by Ko and colleagues is an attempt to characterize the alternative splicing patterns of At1g74140 in comparison to the previously characterized one, At1g74130. After carefully reading the paper and carefully analyzing the methods, I have to sadly say that I do not think this manuscript represents an advance in the knowledge of these genes (or At1g74140 in particular), since the alternative splicing isoforms are already annotated in JBrowse, Araport and TAIR, and I do not think the methods used are appropriate to search for (or validate) alternative splicing isoforms. The use of different overlapped/stepped PCR amplicons to check for “different splicing activities” is not a reliable method. PCR is extremely sensitive and with enough cycles could amplify even noise. Primer design is wrong in many cases. When the authors use primers that should span exon junctions they have far too many bases on the 3’ end of the primers. This means that these oligos could partially bind (and with partially I mean 13-16 bases) to a target and give a PCR product that would be misleading. When generating a primer for a junction the authors must limit the binding to the 3’ exon/region to only 3-5 bases. Moreover, these 2 genes do not show any expression at all in the RNA-seq data on JBrowse in any condition there. In addition, I was analyzing other RNA-seq data, publicly available, to see if I could find if these genes are expressed at all, and I wasn’t able to find trustable reads for these loci in several conditions tested. From my point of view, the expression of these genes, and of At1g74140 in particular, is marginal (in several conditions). Hence, any conclusion based on the expression of a few, or just some partial, RNA molecules wouldn’t be reliable. As I was saying before, by using PCR you can get a signal even from the-almost-non-existent expression of a gene. Since there are no amplification controls, for example using genomic DNA to test the primers, when there is no amplification we cannot say that a particular cDNA (corresponding to an isoform) is absent or that a particular combination of exons is not in the sample. The lack of amplification of the longer amplicons (“full length RNA”) should be taken as a signal of a problem. Since, as expressed before, there are no amplification controls and some primers do work in some combinations or in shorter amplicons, I would guess that the expression of the “full length RNA” is so low that the authors are just able to get some partial RNAs that are most likely expression noise. The authors do not inform the amount of cycles they used; hence, I do not know for sure whether the expression is low or not. However, I am concluding this from the intensity of the bands in the gels, the lack of amplification of the longer amplicons, and the fact that there are no reads at all for this gene in different RNA-seq experiments. The authors should provide this information, so the reader knows how many cycles are needed to get a signal from the different amplicons. In addition, if the authors have evidence that expression is not marginal in their conditions, they should add that into this manuscript. Moreover, showing different conditions where splicing patterns are affected would also increase the impact of this work. Besides these main issues I would also like to add that the conclusion that the shorter, spliced transcripts, could be functional entities such as miRNAs is far far beyond the data presented. Furthermore, the authors introduce the terms “active”/”inactive” but they never explain the meaning of these in the context of these proteins. In addition, the authors discuss about splicing patterns but they do not see that in their data, and they introduce the concept (?) of ‘sequence “discontinuity”’ that it is not further explained and seems to be, actually, they are talking about alternative splicing. 