This is an article describing the confluence of two theories, the model of health as defined by the authors in the Meikirch model which appears to be a model developed and published by the authors, and complex adaptive systems. The authors propose this as a method to better help patients adapt and aim towards improved health. Strengths: The authors have developed a theory and are proposing this explicit theory can better support patient care. Primary care is known for its complexity and uncertainty. Thus the system is a good framework for thinking about a holistic approach to patient care and to the variability of adaptation based on the components. The categories of illness and disease would be helpful for learners to understand that not all illness has a desired resolution. The comments on complex adaptive systems as a way of understanding health in individuals and society is useful in reminding us that linear models often ignore the unintended consequences of change. Suggestions: As a family physician, I found the paper both interesting and difficult to follow. In general the language is clear with minor errors. I am not an expert on complex adaptive systems but agree with the comment regarding the use of some terms as detracting from the premise of the article. My main suggestion would be to expand the methods section. It is not clear to me who was involved in the process, how this was carried out. I wonder if this would be better as a theoretical proposal rather than a scientific study. The examples chosen seem to be the opinions of the authors and have not been tested. Some are quite vague and would require fuller explanation. I also agree that comparing this theory to others might be useful. McWhinney is referenced and as a leader in Family Medicine in Canada, the four principles of family medicine and a model we use to teach residents for patient-centered care helps us to provide care in family medicine that is not likely to be enhanced by the model. The four principles are: The family physician is a skilled clinician. Family medicine is a community-based discipline. The family physician is a resource to a defined practice population. The patient-physician relationship is central to the role of the family physician. It may be that the authors are specialists and thus are less familiar with general/family practice. The idea that “Physicians then examine them and specifically look for pathological changes.” is not the premise for family medicine in Canada. The four principles address the environment and social determinants of health in situating the patient in the community and family in which they live. The idea of accompanying the patient resides in the value of continuity of care and the patient-physician relationship. Knowing the patient’s values and past helps to tailor the approach to support the patient in the direction they wish to go. The skilled clinician is a critical thinker who can deal with uncertainty and as a resource to the practice population advocates for the system to better serve the population. In Canada we teach a model of interviewing that includes the traditional history focused on disease interwoven with the IFFE model. These include the patient’s ideas of what is wrong with them, their fears, how their function is affected and their expectations from the physician/system. These questions are essential to the patient-centered approach and situate the consultation clearly with the patient as the CAS. In particular, I find the suggestions for taking a history based on the model cumbersome and clearly the language would be challenging for patients. It is also not clear to me how these questions are related to the CAS. The treatment approach mirrors the patient-centered approach taken in family medicine. We know that patients often do not fill prescriptions and asking patients what might work for them or what they are comfortable with, helps one to support a treatment approach that is right for the particular patient. Being aware that a patient does not have the resources to access a particular treatment is essential to a collaborative effort for care. Some of the examples either require more explanation or less linear thinking. The idea that in utero does not include the environment overlooks the social determinants of health of the mother and their effect on the in utero environment. I have been involved in a number of Balint groups and recall reading Michael Balint’s book. The statement “He was psychiatrist and pursued the purpose to train general practitioners in psychotherapy.” does not reflect my experience. My understanding was he focused on Difficult Clinician-patient relationships to help general practitioners interact and “accompany” our patients more effectively. The groups were meant to support physicians in their own context. I did not see this as training in psychotherapy. Minor suggestions “Examples of medical conditions are ventricular fibrillation, epileptic seizures, tantrum, or psychotic states.” This statement needs further explanation. It is not logical from the discussion if we think of health in a holistic manner. There may be cultural differences in writing and I appreciate English may not be the first language of the authors; however I find it a poor reflection to refer to all patients and physicians as male. 