 Regarding the title I find it a bit misleading that the title says “14 European cohorts” as the study utilizes the Scandinavian cohort and only one other cohort, the UK's Whitehall study. Article content As the authors themselves point out, the studies included differ in design, timing and study population, which consist a challenge for a meta-analyses. The authors propose a number of sophisticated statistical methods to meet this challenge. However I have some reservations, particularly about including the Whitehall study - which is otherwise very good - as it is the only non Scandinavian study, and includes a selected population of white collars employees in a specific environmental setting. Also, to my knowledge, the UK registers differ from the Scandinavian practices, which renders comparisons problematic. Regarding measure of job strain it is not quite clear to me if additive, multiple, or both conceptualisation will be used. Also I find using a dichotomous measure of variables involved (low/high) rather crude. I suggest underlining more clearly that the risk of depression will be calculated in relation to other possible combinations of job strain model variables, which I find important as there is some evidence of diverging results. The measure of SES based only on occupation is a bit limited. Is it not possible to include fx. income and urbanity? The description of the statistics is detailed and lengthy. For the readers with scientific background this is very satisfactory, but I believe that the readers with less research training will be lost here. I suggest that the purpose of this sophisticated statistical analyses be more clear, or may be also plainly explained. Is it necessary to go as far back as ICD-8 in obtaining cases? And is “manic-depressive psychosis” included? I believe it would make data unnecessary heterogeneous. Conclusion In all I find the study interesting and well designed. Its strength are the large population and register-based outcome. At the same time the limitation is that the outcome is restricted to a rather severe case of depression, and only ones treated in psychiatric hospitals, which are less prevalent.