This paper tackles a difficult subject: the taxonomy of the horned dinosaur Chasmosaurus. Researchers have been debating the matter for years, such that Chasmosaurus is arguably among the most problematic ceratopsid genera to date. In this sense, I applaud Longrich for being brave enough to take on such a difficult problem. However, I have many issues with his paper that I think should preclude its acceptance. These are as follows: 1. On my first read through the paper, I found numerous typos and sentence fragments throughout. Longrich also waffles in his use of terminology (e.g., posterior vs. caudal; epiparietals vs. epoccipitals; chasmosaurs vs. chasmosaurines; centrosaurs vs. centrosaurines; P1 vs. p1 epiparietals, etc., etc., etc.). Also, the Systematic Paleontology section appears twice. This made for difficult and confusing reading, and the paper could have used a thorough going-over before submission. 2.The figures are okay, but not great (e.g., Figure 3B appears out of focus; Figure 4C is washed out; sometimes the line overlays don't connect the labels to their respective anatomical details; some figure abbreviations are not provided). I felt that additional interpretive line drawings would have been helpful because the skull sutures can be difficult to see on the small figures. For example, it would be nice to see a tracing of the parietal-squamosal sutures of YPM 2016, details of the maxilla/nasal/premaxilla/jugal intersection, bones surrounding the infratemporal fenestra, etc. This specimen is crucial to Longrich's argument, and so should be illustrated properly. A figure of the occiput would be hepful for the sake of completeness, too, even if the area isn't particularly diagnostic. For such an important specimen, the table of measurements is pretty bare. 3. Much of the terminology is out of date and/or confusing. For example, we now use 'epiparietals'/'episquamosals'/'epiossifiations', not the old and inaccurate 'epoccipitals'. Frontoparietal fossa, not frontal fossa. Where Longrich relies on his own terminology, it quickly becomes confusing (e.g., narial process vs. nasal process; talk of 'lateral rami' of the posterior parietal bar vs. lateral parietal bars). The figure labels help, but they're not always reliable (e.g., where is the 'anteroventral fossa' of the premaxilla that he mentions?). 4. Longrich doesn't interact with the latest literature -- particularly two recent papers of special relevance: Konishi, T. (2015). Redescription of UALVP 40, an unusual specimen of Chasmosaurus Lambe, 1914 (Ceratopsidae: Chasmosaurinae) bearing long postorbital horns, and its implications for ontogeny and alpha taxonomy of the genus. Canadian Journal of Earth Sciences , 52 (8), 608-619. Campbell, J. A., Ryan, M. J., Holmes, R. B., Schrder-Adams, C. J. (2016). A Re-Evaluation of the Chasmosaurine Ceratopsid Genus Chasmosaurus (Dinosauria: Ornithischia) from the Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) Dinosaur Park Formation of Western Canada. PloS one , 11 (1), e0145805. These papers are critical to Longrich's recent work on chasmosaurines and, in the case of the latter paper, already does much of what Longrich has set out to do by identifying YPM 2016 as an evolutionary intermediate between C. belli and C. irvinensis (unfortunately, making much of Longrich's work less original/impactful). It is crucial that Longrich interacts with these articles and addresses their arguments regarding Chasmosaurus taxonomy and systematics. Admittedly, the last paper was still in press by the time this one was submitted. 5. The anatomical descriptions are rife with interpretation (e.g., mention of 'primitive' and 'derived' features, talk of evolutionary convergence, etc.) that should be relegated to the Discussion. 6. Longrich's cladistic methodology is unclear. For example, he says that he ran a heuristic algorithm until 69201 MPTs were obtained. But did he run the analysis to completion? Did he stop the analysis there? If so, why? As one of the commenters of the online version of the manuscript mentioned, the number of MPTs mentioned in Figure 6 is at odds with the number he gives in the text. Further, what was the outgroup? Were any Chasmosaurus specimens excluded from the analysis (e.g., C. canadensis type), and why? These outstanding questions, and the egregious absence of a character matrix provided as supplementary data, make replicating Longrich's results very difficult. 7. In an offhand comment, Longrich mentions that "characters previously used to diagnose Nedoceratops, including the orientation of the postorbital horns and the position of the squamosal are present only on one side of the skull... indicating that they are artifacts resulting from postmortem distortion." He does this to support his exclusion of this taxon from his cladistic analysis. However, it isn't enough to simply say this is the case. He needs to show it. How do we know that the diagnostic characters (whatever they are -- he doesn't say) weren't taken from the undistorted side of the skull? 8. As mentioned above, Chasmosaurus taxonomy is a bit of a mess, but I'm afraid that Longrich's solution creates more confusion than clarity, and this is my biggest grievance with his latest contribution. His erection of Mojoceratops perifania (in 2010) to receive specimens traditionally assigned to Chasmosaurus canadensis/kaiseni was a mistake. At the time, Longrich reasoned that the types of C. canadensis/kaiseni were undiagnostic, but the C. kaiseni type falls out with Mojoceratops in this latest cladistic study (I'm not sure why the C. canadensis type was excluded), thereby contradicting his initial assertion that the specimen is undiagnostic. Therefore, Mojoceratops should rightly be called Chasmosaurus kaiseni (if not C. canadensis), but Longrich doesn't recognize this problem in his paper, and continues to use Mojoceratops without warrant. Further, I would argue that erecting yet another new species of Chasmosaurus (his C. priscus) is presently unwise. By Longrich's own admission, his tree topology for Chasmosaurus is only weakly supported (very low bootstrap and Bremer support values), so it's difficult to say with any confidence that CMN 2280 (his new type for C. priscus) is as 'primitive' as he thinks. I imagine it would only take one or two more steps to unite CMN 2280 with his C. belli. Erecting C. priscus as a new species is also problematic because it is at odds with the philosophy adopted in his paper. Longrich (I think rightly) wants to pay tribute to evolutionary heritage by sinking Vagaceratops into Chasmosaurus, but he is being inconsistent by then wanting to erect a new paraphyletic species (which isn't even figured in the paper, except for a small thumbnail in Figure 12, which I find irritating). Coining the name 'Euceratopsia' in this paper, which isn't even referred to in the main text, is also both extravagant and unnecessary. (None of this is to say anything about the preferability of naming paraphyletic taxa, which is a highly contentious issue of its own, and one that merits careful consideration.) At the end of the day, I don't think the matter of Chasmosaurus taxonomy is going to be settled without careful consideration of both ontogeny and biostratigraphy, both of which garner short shrift from Longrich in this paper, and are more thoroughly treated in Campbell, 2016 (see above). One of the outstanding issues is that many of the original Chasmosaurus quarries are still unidentified and/or not located in section. This is the necessary groundwork that is going to need to be done before we can get a handle on correlating morphology (with all its individual variation) with stratigraphy. The fact that the C. russelli holotype (CMN 8800) comes from high in section near the Lethbridge Coal Zone (alongside C. irvinensis; see Campbell, 2016), and not low in section as Longrich indicates, suggests that Longrich's new taxonomy is at odds with the fossil record and that his proposed anagenetic scenario may be overly simplistic. In light of the totality of these concerns, I think this study needs major reconsideration and should not be indexed in its present form.