In the article "WTFgenes: What's The Function of these genes? Static sites for model-based gene set analysis" Mungall and Holmes introduce a java script static site implementation of a model based Bayesian method to calculate functional enrichment. Included in this is an implementation of the current standard method, fisher exact test. In the paper the method model is very well explained but given that the authors are introducing a tool to access this model very little was discussed about how the software works. For example, the author states that other front end tools "require a server-hosted back end that executes code" but it is not clear how WTFgenes work in a way that it doesn't require a back end that executes code. I think it would be helpful to clearly outline (in a figure) the different implementation of WTFgenes, and how a user can access/set up the different parts available, required inputs and generated outputs. Also, it would be helpful if you expand the example that are presented in the paper to something larger than 17 yeast genes. It is not discussed in the paper but I presume that there are performance limitations which is why there is both javascript and C++ versions. It would be helpful if this was stated. For example, using X number of genes would take Y time in javascript but Z using the C++ implmentation. (I am also not sure how you could switch between these two implementations. It states in the paper that the javascript version can be run by command line or via the web but it doesn't say how to run the c++ version). What is the benefit of running the javascript version by command line? For the yeast example in the paper do you use all of Gene ontology (CC, BP, MF) or just a subset of terms? Is there a way to output the results of the enrichment analysis so you can use the results in downstream analyses? Minor comments: In the paper it states that for Frequentist enrichemnt analysis you use bonferonni correction. Under the tab "Quick report" which contains these results I see a p-value. Is this the corrected p-value or nominal p-value? If it is the nominal how do we find the corrected p-value? Some general comments/questions: Can WTFgenes only work with gene onotology? Given that there is no back-end web server is it easier to update the annotation that you use? It looks like it requires obo and gaf files but can it also support generic gene set files. It might be beneficial to create a docker image of WTFgenes for easy installation of WTFgenes. 