The current Ebola crisis in West Africa has shattered all expectations by continuing to grow months following the initial case. This has stimulated a massive and global emergency response, and it has challenged the health protocols and by extension, the efforts of scientific community. The authors have carried out a computational analysis using several compounds detected in two previous high throughput screens to build a pharmacophore model. The key features of such a model are used to scan databases of small molecules. They have come up with a list of putative inhibitors. Their study will have a stronger scientific impact if the authors could elaborate more in suggestions on how the best ranked compounds will increase the binding affinity, based in the structural model VP30-inhibitors that they have built. In parallel, they observed a highly overlapping between the motifs in the pharmacophore and those found in the crystal structures of several inhibitors of the viral protein 35. Based on this fact, and in their results in an in-silico docking, they propose that the most likely inhibitory mechanism for these compounds is the targeting of the protein-protein interaction involving this protein. In this regard, the authors should extend their study to include different docking protocols, including different programs, in an attempt to verify their results. As they mention in the text (page 4), the redocking of the ligand in 4IBI to the protein does not show the crystal structure binding mode accurately. These different settings could help in a better prediction of the ligand orientations. Concerning the docking and proposed mechanism, I wonder how different the other solved nucleocapsid proteins are from a structural and sequence point of view, in order to make the authors point that VP35 is indeed the target. Would it be possible to explore for surface patches with similar physico-chemical features? In the case of VP30, a potential binding pocket for small-molecule inhibitors has been suggested by Hartlieb et al. (2007) . How good or bad the overlapping with the built pharmachophore is for this case? To complete the structural understanding of the action of these compounds, a figure displaying their location on the protein surface as well as the binding site for RNA would clarify their role in the inhibition of protein-protein interactions. In summary, the manuscript describes an interesting and fast approach to identify putative inhibitors for a currently serious target as Ebola virus. Although their results should be experimental validated to confirm their finding, this computational study and further extensions of it are of the great value.