I would like to thank the authors for their detailed response and their perseverance in this debate. I am perfectly fine with the claims that “at the current level of scientific advancement some first-person accounts cannot be reduced to their third-person neural and psychophysiological correlates” and “whichever information 3PAs can obtain related to 1PAs, this information is qualitatively different from that one experienced subjectively”. The authors are basically saying that there is a special quality to qualia that cannot be captured by discovering its neurobiological correlates. These claims may be true and are fine in an opinion-article. Thus, it is also fine to say that “3PAs derived from psychophysiological monitoring or neuroimaging, cannot in any way provide a more accurate idea about the qualia of the person, than the person himself experienced” . However, this is not really the central point of the paper. The meat of the paper, contained in the “When first-person accounts are the only valid information to consider” section argues for something else: the superiority of self-report of qualia (and not experience or introspection!) vs. 3PAs on qualia. Most of the content within the paper argues for that self-report of qualia is the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents . For example, sentences like this: “the knowledge [neuronal, chemical, electrical activities that take place in the brain] we gather in this regard, no matter how detailed it may turn out to be, offers no help whatsoever in and of itself by way of giving us access to the first-person data. To retrieve the latter data, the right thing to do would be to directly engage with subjects of experience, that is, with people.” directly imply that we can get access to qualia content through self-reports, but not through 3PA reports. To support this claim, the authors bring many examples of self-reports of qualia being routinely used in research and therapy, such as rating pain on a VAS, or rating emotional arousal and valence on a Self-Assessment Manikin (SAM), showing that these provide easily interpretable data about qualia. Then they bring counter-examples of brain imaging results, which are very hard to interpret in terms of their information content on qualia. This implies that self-reports of qualia are the only reliable information about qualia content . However, pain VAS ratings, and emotion SAM ratings basically consist of numbers. We can make our computer programs interpreting fMRI, EEG, or EDA data output the exact same numerical answer as we would get through these self-report ratings with certain amount of accuracy. See for example: Huang, G., Xiao, P., Hung, Y. S., Iannetti, G. D., Zhang, Z. G., Hu, L. (2013). A novel approach to predict subjective pain perception from single-trial laser-evoked potentials. Neuroimage, 81, 283-293 1 . Hullett, B., Chambers, N., Preuss, J., Zamudio, I., Lange, J., Pascoe, E., Ledowski, T. (2009). Monitoring Electrical Skin ConductanceA Tool for the Assessment of Postoperative Pain in Children?. The Journal of the American Society of Anesthesiologists, 111(3), 513-517 2 . Marquand, A., Howard, M., Brammer, M., Chu, C., Coen, S., Mouro-Miranda, J. (2010). Quantitative prediction of subjective pain intensity from whole-brain fMRI data using Gaussian processes. Neuroimage, 49(3), 2178-2189 3 . Zhou, F., Qu, X., Helander, M. G., Jiao, J. R. (2011). Affect prediction from physiological measures via visual stimuli. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 69(12), 801-819 4 . Chang, C. Y., Zheng, J. Y., Wang, C. J. (2010, July). Based on support vector regression for emotion recognition using physiological signals. In Neural Networks (IJCNN), The 2010 International Joint Conference on (pp. 1-7). IEEE 5 . Bailenson, J. N., Pontikakis, E. D., Mauss, I. B., Gross, J. J., Jabon, M. E., Hutcherson, C. A., ... John, O. (2008). Real-time classification of evoked emotions using facial feature tracking and physiological responses. International journal of human-computer studies, 66(5), 303-317 6 . If we give a researcher 50 printouts of participant VAS ratings and 50 printouts of predicted VAS ratings based on physiological data (both a sheet of white paper with a single number on it), the researcher would have no way of knowing which of the reports came from 1PAs and 3PAs. Thus, given that we will reach a high enough accuracy in prediction, we can substitute 1PAs with 3PAs, and gain the exact same information for pain VAS ratings. And our accuracy is gradually increasing, some of the prediction algorithms already reaching r = 0.75 correlation with a single monitored psychophysiological feature. The authors may have the opinion that we will never reach 100% accuracy in these predictions, which is fine. If this is true, self-reports will always give us a more reliable account of qualia than 3PA-derived reports. However this is only true in cases where we can rely on self-reports. My previous review gives many examples where this may not be true. In these cases we may get a more reliable account of qualia from 3PA-derived reports. So even if the hunch of the authors is true about the possible level of predictive accuracy of self-reports with 3PA-derived reports, they still need to refine the statements to more accurately indicate that self-reports of 1PAs are superior to 3PAs only in circumstances where self-reports on 1PAs are readily available and reliable. I believe the following statements are also problematic, because they are unclear. “these first-person accounts are the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents” “there are many varieties of 1PAs whose contents and characteristics can be known and investigated only by these accounts and cannot be integrated with information gathered by 3PAs in particular those related to their neural or psychophysiological correlates.” “the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to the knowledge of these phenomena.” In their current context all of these sentences imply that neurobiological accounts of qualia do not hold any information about qualia content, while self-reports do. See the added brackets: “these first-person accounts [self-reports] are the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents” “there are many varieties of 1PAs whose contents and characteristics can be known and investigated only by these accounts [self-reports] and cannot be integrated with information gathered by 3PAs in particular those related to their neural or psychophysiological correlates.” “the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to the knowledge of these phenomena [over that gained through self-report].” However, I believe that the above mentioned example about self-reported pain on a VAS vs. computer predicted pain on a VAS based on psychophysiological parameters clearly shows that the distinction between self-reports of 1PAs and 3PA-derived reports of 1PAS are not qualitatively different. So either they both fail to convey any information on qualia content, or they both hold some information, and one is more accurate than the other (in most but not all cases, self-report is more accurate). On the other hand it is possible that my interpretation of these sentences is wrong, and the authors are not talking about self-report here. In this case, these sentences need to be clarified. One issue is that the authors still seem to use “first person accounts (1PAs)” both to indicate qualia and self-report of qualia. For example in this sentence, the phrase “1PAs” is used to refer to self-report of qualia: “For each of the selected phenomena we will present some examples of 1PAs and 3PAs to make evident the different informational value of these accounts as supportive of our main thesis.” . However, in the definition of “1PAs” the authors clearly say that it refers to mental content: “First-person accounts (1PAs) are phenomenological subjective mental content the person is aware of and that can be communicate[d] to others” . It is very important to distinguish experiences from self-reports about experiences, because experiences are inherently true and reliable, while reports on these can be untrue or unreliable because of limits in our communicational or mental abilities. One alternative way of interpreting the above mentioned problematic statements is if the authors meant that qualia content is only accessible to introspection (a common claim in philosophy). So the sentences would read something like this: “knowledge gained through introspection is the only information to reckon when it is necessary to analyse qualia contents” “there are many varieties of 1PAs whose contents and characteristics can be known and investigated only through introspection and cannot be integrated with information gathered by 3PAs in particular those related to their neural or psychophysiological correlates.” “the knowledge of their neural and psychophysiological correlates has nothing to add to the knowledge of these phenomena over and above that accessible through introspection.” This would make the above sentences much more defensible, because it leads back to the original first claim, that personal experiences have a certain quality that cannot be reduced to 3PAs. However, that would kind of invalidate the “When first-person accounts are the only valid information to consider” section where the whole argument is centered around that we need to focus more on self-reports instead of neurobiological data. So that section would also need to be changed then to argue that introspection is the preferred method of research in these cases if we want to truly study qualia content(!), while self-report and 3PA derived reports are only useful to “understand, classify, judge, etc. the mental, emotional, behavioural, perceptual subjective experience of another person”. Furthermore, the introspection interpretation would also incur the usual criticism regarding introspection methods, such as that the conscious attempts of introspection distorts experiences, and that introspection is constricted by the same limitations as every other mental activity using attentional resources. It is also unclear, whether the authors mean self-report of qualia, or introspection of qualia, or the experience itself in this sentence, as the “only reliable source of information”: “1PAs [self-report on qualia or introspection of experiences or experiences themselves?] a re the only reliable source of information available and that the knowledge of their neural and psychophysical correlates does not offer additional information about their contents, but only complementary information.” The authors say in their reply that ‘The statement “For example if one would like to investigate whether hypnosis can induce a certain visual illusion, this technique may be used to add another layer of evidence to the claim of the subject that the visual illusion was indeed experienced, which may dispel criticism that the subject only reported the presence of the illusion to please the hypnotherapist.” is absolutely correct and this research approach is also defined neurophenomenological because it entails both 1PAs and 3PAs.’ If this statement is indeed correct, then in this research we have successfully used integrated information from self-reports of qualia and 3PAs, thus falsifying the following claim for visual illusions: “there are many varieties of 1PAs whose contents and characteristics can be known and investigated only by these accounts and cannot be integrated with information gathered by 3PAs in particular those related to their neural or psychophysiological correlates.” The bottom line is, - I still think that the manuscript needs a fair amount of clarification in terms of when are the authors talking about qualia (the subjective phenomenological experience), when are they talking about self-report of qualia, and when are they talking about introspection of experiences. - The limitation of using self-reports (and introspection, if this is a key feature) needs to be better highlighted - Claims about the superiority of self-reports vs. 3PA derived information needs to be qualified with potential limitations when self-reports cannot be relied upon - It needs to be clarified whether self-reports of qualia and 3PAs can provide any information about “qualia content” and what is the difference between the “analysis of qualia content” vs. “understand, classify, judge” qualia. I think it is possible for us to arrive at a shared opinion, once the above things are clarified. References 1. Huang G, Xiao P, Hung YS, Iannetti GD, et al.: A novel approach to predict subjective pain perception from single-trial laser-evoked potentials. Neuroimage . 2013; 81 : 283-93 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Hullett B, Chambers N, Preuss J, Zamudio I, et al.: Monitoring electrical skin conductance: A tool for the assessment of postoperative pain in children?. Acute Pain . 2009; 11 (3-4). Publisher Full Text 3. Marquand A, Howard M, Brammer M, Chu C, et al.: Quantitative prediction of subjective pain intensity from whole-brain fMRI data using Gaussian processes. Neuroimage . 2010; 49 (3): 2178-89 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Zhou F, Qu X, Helander M, Jiao J: Affect prediction from physiological measures via visual stimuli. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies . 2011; 69 (12): 801-819 Publisher Full Text 5. Chang CY: Based on support vector regression for emotion recognition using physiological signals. Neural Networks, The 2010 International Joint Conference on (IJCNN) . 2010. 1-7 6. Bailenson J, Pontikakis E, Mauss I, Gross J, et al.: Real-time classification of evoked emotions using facial feature tracking and physiological responses. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies . 2008; 66 (5): 303-317 Publisher Full Text 7. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Hypnosis, Psychophysiological mechanisms involved in mind-body interventions I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Kekecs Z. Reviewer Report For: On the primacy and irreducible nature of first-person versus third-person information [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :99 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12704.r23093 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-99/v3#referee-response-23093 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: van den Noort M and Bosch P. Reviewer Report For: On the primacy and irreducible nature of first-person versus third-person information [version 3; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :99 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12704.r23120 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-99/v3#referee-response-23120 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 01 Jun 2017 Maurits van den Noort , Research Group of Pain and Neuroscience, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea; Brussels Institute for Applied Linguistics, Free University of Brussels, Brussels, Belgium Peggy Bosch , Donders Centre for Cognition, Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.12704.r23120 We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an ... Continue reading READ ALL 