There is today an increasing interest in studying difficult face mask ventilation. Cattano et al . present a retrospective study derived from a database built of elective cases. There are several points I want to make: First, the study used a real world clinical setting confirming that in the daily practice difficult face mask ventilation is not a rare occurrence. Second, it introduced an objective assessment tool for the difficult face mask ventilation: capnography (further comment from the authors regarding this tool would be appreciated). Third: six out of the seven independent risk factors for the difficult face mask ventilation (age, BMI, neck circumference, presence of facial hair, perceived short neck, OSA) that were identified and then applied to evaluate a predictive model can be easily assessed or inferred with a clinical exam on an unconscious patient thus having probably a role in the outside of the operating room setting too. Fourth: the study confirms the importance of neck circumference, BMI and OSA in the difficult face mask ventilation paradigm. It is known that these clinical settings are plagued by inspiratory and expiratory obstruction at the soft palate level that does not respond to airway manoeuvres. The soft palate obstruction (relevant for nasal ventilation) can be by passed by committing to oral ventilation (by opening the mouth with an oropharyngeal airway). 1 2 It may be appropriate to recommend in these clinical settings a first (optimized) face mask ventilation attempt with an oropharyngeal airway in situ . References 1. Sato Y, Ikeda A, Ishikawa T, Isono S: How can we improve mask ventilation in patients with obstructive sleep apnea during anesthesia induction?. J Anesth. 2013; 27 (1): 152-156 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Buffington CW, Wells CMQ, Soose RJ: Expiratory Upper Airway Obstruction Caused by the Soft Palate during Bag-Mask Ventilation. Open Journal of Anesthesiology . 2012; 2 (2): 38-43 Publisher Full Text | Reference Source Competing Interests: Royalties for the ergonomic face mask I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Matioc A. Reviewer Report For: Difficult mask ventilation in general surgical population: observation of risk factors and predictors [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :204 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.5471.r6308 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-204/v1#referee-response-6308 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 17 Oct 2014 Davide Cattano , University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, USA 17 Oct 2014 Author Response We are grateful for Dr Matioc comments which endorse our findings while offring an opportunity for further discussion. We do agree with Dr Matioc about the importance of properly monitoring ... Continue reading We are grateful for Dr Matioc comments which endorse our findings while offring an opportunity for further discussion. We do agree with Dr Matioc about the importance of properly monitoring ventilation, which may not always be possible simply by utilizing a capnometry tool, and current investigations are actually looking at other type of devices, particularly in the postoperative arena, where airway obstruction may still occur. In the operating room the presence of capnometry combined with spirometry is a complete tool. Regarding airway adjuncts, I agree that an oral airway cannula should be promptly used, as in fact was one of the limitations of our investigation, since it is part of common airway management pathways, however I would consider also a nasal airway, if available and not concerning trauma, for a better and proper management of ventilation. We are grateful for Dr Matioc comments which endorse our findings while offring an opportunity for further discussion. We do agree with Dr Matioc about the importance of properly monitoring ventilation, which may not always be possible simply by utilizing a capnometry tool, and current investigations are actually looking at other type of devices, particularly in the postoperative arena, where airway obstruction may still occur. In the operating room the presence of capnometry combined with spirometry is a complete tool. Regarding airway adjuncts, I agree that an oral airway cannula should be promptly used, as in fact was one of the limitations of our investigation, since it is part of common airway management pathways, however I would consider also a nasal airway, if available and not concerning trauma, for a better and proper management of ventilation. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 17 Oct 2014 Davide Cattano , University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Houston, USA 17 Oct 2014 Author Response We are grateful for Dr Matioc comments which endorse our findings while offring an opportunity for further discussion. We do agree with Dr Matioc about the importance of properly monitoring ... Continue reading We are grateful for Dr Matioc comments which endorse our findings while offring an opportunity for further discussion. We do agree with Dr Matioc about the importance of properly monitoring ventilation, which may not always be possible simply by utilizing a capnometry tool, and current investigations are actually looking at other type of devices, particularly in the postoperative arena, where airway obstruction may still occur. In the operating room the presence of capnometry combined with spirometry is a complete tool. Regarding airway adjuncts, I agree that an oral airway cannula should be promptly used, as in fact was one of the limitations of our investigation, since it is part of common airway management pathways, however I would consider also a nasal airway, if available and not concerning trauma, for a better and proper management of ventilation. We are grateful for Dr Matioc comments which endorse our findings while offring an opportunity for further discussion. We do agree with Dr Matioc about the importance of properly monitoring ventilation, which may not always be possible simply by utilizing a capnometry tool, and current investigations are actually looking at other type of devices, particularly in the postoperative arena, where airway obstruction may still occur. In the operating room the presence of capnometry combined with spirometry is a complete tool. Regarding airway adjuncts, I agree that an oral airway cannula should be promptly used, as in fact was one of the limitations of our investigation, since it is part of common airway management pathways, however I would consider also a nasal airway, if available and not concerning trauma, for a better and proper management of ventilation. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Doyle DJ. Reviewer Report For: Difficult mask ventilation in general surgical population: observation of risk factors and predictors [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2014, 3 :204 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.5471.r5963 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/3-204/v1#referee-response-5963 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 28 Aug 2014 D John Doyle , Department of General Anesthesiology, Cleveland Clinic Main Campus, Cleveland, OH, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.5471.r5963 This is an important contribution to the difficult airway literature and will be helpful to clinicians wanting a means to predict that mask ventilation may be a problem following the induction of general anesthesia. While the limitations of the study ... Continue reading READ ALL 