In view of the rarity of reactive angioendotheliomatosis this is an important case report to alert clinicians to this disorder and should eventually, be indexed. However, I think that the authors should go into more detail as listed below, and I therefore approve with reservations at the moment. Abstract: Introduction : It is not only the clinical presentation that is quite varied, but also the histopathological pattern. Intravascular endothelial proliferation is regarded as "key feature", but other patterns have been described as well. Deposition of fibrin and thrombi are variably found within the endothelial proliferations. Perivascularly, extravasation of erythrocytes and lymphocytes are found... therefore, I suggest adapting the second sentence of the introduction accordingly. Case description : Regarding the case description I have a few suggestions: A female patient .... ... (APLS) due to .... The dose of aspirin should be given as well. It should be stated also in the abstract whether - in addition to connective tissue diseases - other potential stimuli of or disease associations with RAE, respectively, have been excluded, e.g. endocarditis, liver or renal disease. Case Report : Case : Regarding the case I have a few questions: The medication for hypertension is given, but not whether hypercholesterolemia has been treated and, if so, by which medication. What was the pattern of ANA staining? In case of positive ANA and in particular with a homogenous pattern, anti-dsDNA-antibodies were negative? What are the reference values for antiphospholipid IgM and 2-glycoprotein 1? Have cryoglobulins been tested for? I suggest to mention in the text the reason for using hydroxychloroquine (antithrombotic and antihyperlipaemic) in addition to aspirin. Figure 1: Is the central pale area a scar after biopsy? Histopathology: as far as I see in Figure 2 the main pathology is at the dermal/subcutaneous interface. RAE, however, is found in the superficial dermis or throughout the entire dermis. Histopathology reminds me rather of panniculitis. Is it possible to find another figure showing more of the dermis? Immunohistochemical studies have been performed with anti-CD34, vWF, smooth muscle actin for pericytes, and HHV-8. Discussion : Discussion includes all important features of RAE. However, discussion on histopathological patterns might be extended. 1 st paragraph: ... on various forms of RAE, i.e. diffuse dermal angiomatosis - which might be the main histopathologic differential diagnosis, glomeruloid hemangioma-like, angiomatosis with deposits of cryoglobulin, etc. 