The brief report by Aslam et al . develops a theme that was the initial focus of the Tsubata lab in the early 90’s. The authors follow up on the observation that CD40L is overexpressed on T cells in SLE patients and, ectopically, on B cells. As CD40L provides an important second signal to B cells, the question was whether it can overcome negative regulation of certain B cell states. The current work continues upon Kishi et al . (PNAS 2012) who used anti-DNA transgenic mice to examine the effect of CD40L overexpression on the regulation of autoreactive B cells. Kishi et al. established that an avid anti-DNA transgene, 56R, led to B cell sequestration in the splenic marginal zone (MZ) and death by apoptosis. CD40L overexpression was able to inhibit apoptosis in the MZ and allow expression of certain H/L pairs, most notably those with anti-Sm specificity. Here, the authors use a closely related anti-DNA H chain, 3H9, which is of lower affinity for DNA compared to 56R. Dozens of labs have used the 3H9 and the 56R H-chain transgenic mouse lines which have become emblematic for the type of H chain that is immunodominant and – with different L chains – has the potential to encode a range of self-specificities, including anti-DNA, anti-phospholipid, anti-nucleosome and also anti-apoptotic cell antibodies. Earlier work by the Erikson lab had established that 3H9VH in combination with λ1 gives a B cell receptor that induces anergy and leads to a characteristic extrafollicular localization. Aslam et al . observe that the 3H9/λ1 combination produces the same number of splenic B cells whether or not it is crossed to CD40L and that the splenic location of the single and double transgenic B cells is identical. The significance of this work is that it draws an important distinction between tolerance mechanisms that result in anergy vs. MZ deletion. Only the latter is sensitive to rescue by CD40L signals. This serves to clarify important characteristics of splenic B cell regulation. It will be informative to follow these studies with additional approaches to test whether B cell signalling pathways are perturbed by the presence of CD40L, whether increased CD40L expression on B or T cells is involved in suppressing apoptosis in the MZ, and whether CD40L overexpression could affect other types of 56R “incomplete editing” such as in the case of intracellular Golgi retention that is observed with 56R and Vk38c and λX L chains. The title is appropriate for the content of the article and the abstract represents a suitable summary of the work. The design, methods and analysis of the results from the study have been explained and they are appropriate for the topic being studied. The conclusions are sensible, balanced and justified on the basis of the results of the study and enough information has been provided to be able to replicate the experiment.