This article describes an extensive and comprehensive report of the ELIXIR-UK training resources and the ELIXIR-UK role in defining ELIXIR’s training. It is very useful to other ELIXIR nodes and other countries willing to setup a bioinformatics training program. The manuscript is clear and well written, but it is often read as a long administrative report for funders. Hereafter you will find my suggestions, mainly to reduce redundancy and to improve clarity: General remarks: Long term sustainability for training is a major issue, in UK and in several countries, and it is continuously repeated in this report. Instead of repeating at each session, it could have a much higher impact if it was stated only once, in the future plans only, with a full paragraph/session dedicated only for this. It would be useful to give more details on the funding opportunities the authors are envisioning and exploring to sustain training in the long term. Besides from funding, what are the other issues that ELIXIR-UK are facing regarding training? For instance, number of well-trained trainers and for each areas of expertise? The commitment from the expert areas is only explicitly stated in the Applied Genomics session. Is community commitment an issue in the other areas of training? In the five thematic areas: The training content in the five thematic areas are of direct interest to other countries and could be better detailed in their respective sessions. In the session Statistics training, what is taught in the statistics skill schools? Does it go beyond what is covered in the STATO didactic tool? Supplementary material: The table in the supplementary materials is difficult to understand and does not support the content. There are acronyms that are not explained (TCRS, TOM, etc) and the time span is not anchored in the actual calendar. It would be worth: adding actual time periods, explaining the acronyms (or removing them if they are not useful for the content), explaining the tasks or removing them. This lighter and more self-explanatory version of the table (which could become an image) could then support the content of the manuscript and be inserted within the text, as a summary. Some minor corrections: Some texts are highlighted in bold ( ELIXIR-UK has initiated and coordinated the provision of SWC/DC training across ELIXIR ; etc), but it seems to be an error (or at least the reason why is not explicit). In the Future of TeSS, “to a Service Delivery Plan” is written twice. In “Future collaborations between the ELIXIR Training Platform and BD2K TCC were discussed in the upcoming “International Workshop on Data Science Training: Standards, Schemas, and Successes”, May 24–26, “, the word upcoming is outdated. 