We enjoyed reading the paper by Cortes and colleagues as it very usefully surveys the literature for evidence that personalised effects exist, and finds little. This well-conceived study has also been well-executed but does not currently meet the same quality of reporting. The authors also need to be careful not to overstate their case: they find the absence of evidence, not evidence of absence. Whilst, on the whole, they express this correctly, in a few places, a previous reviewer correctly challenges them on this. Regarding the verb 'need', the first reviewer is right - it is too much to say 'If the effect randomly varies ... we need to characterize its distribution'. The authors themselves clarify, later in their reply to this reviewer, that what they mean is 'the best clinicians would like to know ...'. 'need' is a much stronger word than 'would like'. The Oxford English Dictionary defines it in terms of 'necessary', which in turn is defined as 'Indispensable, vital, essential, requisite'. Prof White is also correct to challenge the remark on page 9 that 'the simplest interpretation ... thus rendering futile any search ...' The problem here is that the current wording suggests futility follows from equal variances. We feel it needs some form of wording that makes it clear that the 'futile' is conditional on 'the simplest interpretation' being true and suggest '... treatment effect is constant, which, if correct, would render futile any ...' Additional areas for clarification include: Abstract conclusion - where the authors state ‘…outcome variance was more often smaller…’, we find the results in both the Abstract and main Results section do not fully support this conclusion. Table 1 indicates that the most common outcome by far is 'variability not changed'. The authors should re-write the Abstract in such a way that the results directly support the conclusions. Methods - regarding the target population, it could be made more clear that 'quantitative outcomes' refers to outcomes with continuous data. Results - the results section cites figures in the Supplementary material but the Table (Table 1) and Figure (Figure 3) included in the main paper are not discussed. It is hard to map results in the Abstract to the corresponding points in the main Results and hard to map conclusions directly to results, especially within the Abstract. Figure 2 - the percentages in brackets are confusing. Reporting according to current reporting standards is recommended. Discussion: on page 9 [PDF] where the authors state ‘…thus in turn also supporting evidence-based medicine’ and later on page 10 'Here, we have provided empirical insights for the rationale behind Evidence-Based Medicine.' Both statements equate the entire philosophy and practice of evidence-based medicine/practice with 'let's use parallel group trials'. This paper deals with one element of EBM/P - that of treatment decisions and a further distillation still down to the use of parallel controlled trials to guide decision making in these circumstances. The authors should re-word these occurrences accordingly. 