This is a case report describing the revision of an arterio-venous graft with infected pseudoaneurysm in a patient on chronic haemodialysis. Major comments: The current status of the manuscript provides insufficient details to be useful for other practitioners. Additionally, important details of diagnostic tests are missing. However, most importantly the discussion does not demonstrate why the finding is important and why it should be relevant for the future treatment of infected pseudoaneurysms. Thus, it is not clear what the key message of the case report is. Is it an example of a specific surgical procedure? Is it that a new prosthetic material was placed in an infectious site or is there another aspect? In any case, the author should include a key message in this case presentation which has importance for practitioners who care for patients on hemodialysis. Therefore, the manuscript needs major revision to be indexed. Minor comments: References Some statements are not sufficiently supported by the cited references. Some examples are listed: To support the statement " Improvements in hemodialysis techniques have led to an extended life expectancy such that the number of patients with end-stage renal disease is increasing ", epidemiological and outcome data is needed. The cited reference, a case report in which an anastomotic pseudoaneurysm developed in a patient during the early period of hemodialysis treatment, is insufficient to confirm the author`s statement. Also, to support the statement " Complications regarding vascular access are the main causes of hospitalization in dialysis patients" the cited reference 3 is insufficient, since the paper exclusively describes the outcome of Thomas shunts. To support this statement the author should search for confirming epidemiological data. " The progressive increase in the number of hemodialysis patients makes vascular access creation a common procedure. There are three different choices for hemodialysis access, an AVF, AVG and a central catheter. The brachiocephalic AVF in the forearm should be the first choice ." These statements are not sufficiently supported by the cited reference. Epidemiological and outcome data are needed as reference. Introduction and Discussion The introduction and discussion should be more focused on the case presentation. Especially the second and third paragraph of the introduction, which could be more focused and serve as a background on " pseudoaneurysm in arteriovenous-grafts (AVGs)". The last two sentences of the third paragraph add nothing to the subject of the manuscript. Further, most of the first three paragraphs of the discussion can be omitted and the discussion can be substantially shortened. Some examples are listed: " The use of antiplatelet agents, marcoumar or other agents may reduce the risk of thrombosis, but there is a risk of bleeding and further studies need to prove this hypothesis." "The indications for surgical intervention of venous aneurysms are progressively increasing size, thrombosis or an open skin lesion." Presentation of the case " He had been on hemodialysis for 6 years as a result of end-stage renal disease ." The second part of this sentence is redundant; ESRD is virtually always the reason to be on chronic hemodialysis. The beginning and end of the presentation are also redundant. The author should be more stringent in the case presentation. Further, it would be of interest to know whether there was an increase in systemic inflammatory markers and whether blood cultures were taken. In the discussion, the author writes: " In this case study, the aneurysm was infected to such an extent that it caused the patient’s arteriovenous graft to rupture ." Could the author explain what exactly happened? Was a rupture of the graft noted? If yes, the author should add this to the case presentation. Were there risk factors for an infection? Does the author have any information about the underlying kidney disease and the metabolic situation, e.g. diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular risk factors and so on? Diagnosis and therapeutic intervention " An infection was confirmed after taking cultures when the aneurismal sac was opened ." It would be of interest to know the result of a tissue culture. The information about the antibiotic therapy, type of antibiotics given and duration is missing. Further remarks I suggest rephrasing the term " alternative necessity ". How would you define " venous hypertension " in patients on hemodialysis? 