The authors describe the state of the practice and current challenges for research software sustainability and suggest measures towards improvements that can solve these challenges. In particular, they propose to fund a German Software Sustainability Institute. The paper is the result of a community effort, with work undertaken during two workshops and subsequent collaborative work across the larger RSE community in Germany. The UK Software Sustainability Institute has already been established during a decade ( https://www.software.ac.uk/blog/2020-05-05-impact-institute-10-years ). Thus, the idea of such an institute is not new, but it makes sense to take a specific look at the German situation. Besides universities, the German states (local and in particular federal) fund significant large-scale research associations (Helmholtz/DLR, Max-Planck, Leibniz). This is not the case for most other European states, at least not with a similar scale. Another specialty is the lack of long-term funding for research software engineers, as discussed by the authors. The paper is well-written and easy to read. I like the boxed story of Kim’s career path. However, I’ve some suggestions for improving the paper: Concerning the statement “In order to support research, a sustainable software must be correct”, I suggest to include a short discussion of the test oracle problem for scientific software (see for instance https://doi.org/10.1109/SECSE.2013.6615099 1 ). Concerning the discussion of “The list of criteria presented in this section could be the basis for a structured review process…” I suggest to include two additional initiatives for software review. The first is artifact evaluation in computer science conferences (the process is explained in https://doi.org/10.1515/itit-2019-0040 2 ). The second is the SPEC Research Group’s review process of tools for quantitative system evaluation and analysis (https://research.spec.org/tools/submission.html). The authors write “We also argue that truly sustainable research software must ideally be published under a Free/Libre Open Source Software (FLOSS) license, and follow an open development model…” what I fully support (see for instance https://doi.org/10.1515/itit-2019-0040 2 ). However, later under the section heading “Legal aspects” this requirement is thwarted. I fully agree that legal aspects have to be considered, but the general bias of this section seems to be on commercial licensing of research software. For instance, the decision tree in Figure 1 starts with the question “Licensing planned?”. I assume that commercial licensing is meant, but this is not clear since the figures are not explained in the paper. Instead, the process should start with open sourcing the software. If licenses such as Apache or MIT are applied, the research institutions may later still commercialize the software if appropriate. Such open source licensing is also beneficial for start-ups, that intend to provide professional services for the software. My experience with technology transfer units of German universities and research institutes is that they do not understand the ideas of open source business models (see for instance https://doi.org/10.1109/MC.2019.2898163 3 ). Their focus is on patents and commercializing licenses, sometimes also on start-ups. Conversely, in the software industry, one major motivation for open sourcing software is on improving the quality of software. I cite from https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSAW.2017.11 4 : “the open-source approach has some psychological effects: Developers show a tendency to apply higher quality standards if they know that the code will be publicly available.” For sustainability, quality is an important property of software. The Figures 1-4 do more harm than good. They are daunting to researchers who intend to publish their code open source. These figures should be removed from the paper, they are useless without proper explanation. I suggest that the authors focus in the present paper on their main message (request for funding a German Software Sustainability Institute, which I fully support). Figures 1-4 could be moved to a separate paper, enriched with proper explanation. 