Cheng et al. (2019) examines the association between e-cigarette use and onset of cigarette smoking in youth between the ages of 12 and 17 years in the U.S. They utilize nationally representative and publicly available data from the PATH study. The research was guided by “common liability” theory, which “postulates that any observed relationship between e-cigarettes and combustible tobacco products is attributed to the liability to use tobacco products of the individual; once this common liability is controlled for, there is no causal relationship between e-cigarette use and cigarette smoking.” The authors report that they are the first study to use structural equation modeling to answer this question. Introduction Cheng and colleagues ask an interesting and timely research question. They include a series of recent publications in their background as they lay out their justification. The introduction, however, is rather long and somewhat unfocused. I would lead the discussion of the existing literature with the paragraph starting, “The largest body of literature comes from individual-level observational studies showing a consistent positive association…” The Vasiljevic study looking at exposure to e-cigarette advertisements does not seem directly relevant. Although I understand that it utilizes an experimental design, it could be cut to shorten the rather long introduction. The authors’ reference #26 should be discussed more fully in the introduction and discussion sections, as it identifies the components of common liability to use tobacco products and could shed light on the proper covariates to include in the SEM. The discussion of ecological studies is lengthy and could be shortened. Common liability theory should be introduced and described in the introduction, as it underlies the whole project. What is it, how is it measured, why is it appropriate for this project? Methods SEM is not that commonly used by epidemiologists. The paper would be more accessible if it included a brief introduction to SEM, including model selection, model evaluation, and how to interpret the results. The authors should explain why SEM is the right way to analyze a hypothesis based in common liability theory. The authors used data from Wave 1 (2013-2014) and Wave 2 (2014-2015) of the PATH study. Were PATH Wave 3 (2015-2016) data available and considered? If available but not included, why not? Are the questions the same in Wave 2 for those who are 18? If so, have you considered running a sensitivity model that includes the 18-year-olds? Have other authors made this same decision to exclude them? How many Wave 1 youth were excluded because they had aged up by Wave 2? It may make less sense for future studies to make this cut-off considering changes in the minimum legal age to purchase tobacco products. The authors ran two sets of models, one limited to tobacco products and a second, which they call the ‘expanded liability model’, that includes tobacco products and psychoactive substances. This expanded liability model is not introduced until the results section. It should be described in the methods. Sex and age were included as covariates. Were any of the other risk factors for smoking available in PATH, such as were identified in authors’ reference 26? If so, why not use those? Please provide additional information on missing information. The only mention of it is as it relates to the covariates of age and sex. The authors report that this information was obtained from the Demographics module, which if missing was taken from the household screening roster. Was there missing information for the questions related to tobacco products, alcohol, cannabis, and other psychoactive drugs. If so, provide numbers and describe how it was handled. If there was limited missing information, that could be noted as a strength. Also, was there evidence that the data were, or were not, missing systematically? This can be assessed by comparing the available information for respondents who answered the substance use questions vs. those who did not. Results Please provide the number of eligible participants at Wave 1 and Wave 2 and report numbers and reasons for any that were excluded. This could be done in the form of a figure ending with the final number included in your analysis. Also, please include a baseline table that provides basic demographic information. This could also be described in text. The titles for tables 1 and 2 indicate that that data is from Wave 1 and Wave 2. We are interested in ever use of the products listed in the table at Wave 1 and ever use of cigarettes at Wave 2. Please clarify what is provided in the table and update the table titles/descriptions. In fact, perhaps tables 1 and 2 could be combined to include demographic data from Wave 1; ever use of e-cigarette, cigar, pipe, hookah, SLT, bidi, alcohol, cannabis, prescription Ritalin and Adderall, cocaine/crack, stimulants, and other drugs at Wave 1; and ever cigarette use at Wave 3. I’d suggest placing the model results described in the text in a table. Discussion The authors conclude that “after accounting for the latent ‘common liability to use tobacco products’ construct, ever e-cigarette use does not predict the onset of smoking among US adolescents.” This statement is supported by the results provided, assuming that the variables considered by the authors reasonably captured the common liability they hypothesized exists. This point – whether or not the covariates included were sufficient – needs further explanation and justification. The authors identify several appropriate limitations and strengths. However, the limitations should address more explicitly the availability of data to describe smoking propensity, as defined in reference 26 or elsewhere. The authors identify lack of recall bias as a strength of the study, but the interval between waves in PATH is quite short, so recall bias is not a major concern. The discussion section should place the current results into context of what is already known about smoking initiation in youth. The authors note that their findings are in line with a study by Kim et al. (2019) and they should discuss this reference more fully. Several other observational studies are referenced in the introduction and further description of these observational studies might be useful here as well. Thank you for the opportunity to be a reviewer of this study. It is my recommendation that this paper be approved with reservations. 