K Das and N Buchholz: Comment on “Nadeem M and Ather MH. Effect of diclofenac suppository on pain control during flexible cystoscopy-A randomized controlled trial [version 1; referees: awaiting peer review]. F1000Research 2016, 5:2834 (doi: 10.12688/f1000research.9519.1)” Firstly, I congratulate the authors for a well-chosen study topic, and running a well-designed trial. Flexible cystoscopy, being a commonly practised office procedure without the involvement of anesthetists on most occasions, the choice of appropriate analgesics always remains a dilemma to the practising urologist. A gamut of approaches ranging from local anaethetic usage, lubricant solution to usage of inhalational agents has been practiced with mixed reports. Usage of diclofenac suppository, as has been advocated in this study appears to be a simple and effective approach for conducting this procedure. The statistics supports the claim of the proponents regarding the efficacy of this drug. Considering the ease of administration it will be a good option for the practising urologist conducting office flexible cystoscopy. It would be interesting to know the authors’ feedback on the following aspects from their experience in this study- Was there a difference in pain perception in individuals undergoing diagnostic flexible cystoscopy and those undergoing flexible cystoscopy for stent removal as the latter often involves added pain stimulus to the patient due to additional instrumentation. Was the benefit of diclofenac suppository equally perceived in males and females - our personal observations are flexible cystoscopies are presumably easier and well tolerated in females than males. The last sentence in the introduction says- “In the current study we have attempted to assess the use of diclofenac suppository as a pre-emptive analgesia during flexible ureteroscopy” - we presume this is a typographical error and should be “flexible cystoscopy” instead of flexible ureteroscopy – this needs to be corrected if so. 