This article describes the development of a zebrafish model of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH). ICH is a significant contributor to human mortality and morbidity and effect treatment options are limited. Research in this area has been hindered by the lack of appropriate models – although rodent models have contributed to our understanding of the pathology underlying ICH such models are based on a surgical intervention which does not mirror the spontaneous event, in humans, of ICH. Here the authors compare an existing genetic (bubblehead) and chemically inducible (atorvastatin) zebrafish models of spontaneous ICSH and importantly assess brain injury, locomotor function and neuroinflammation. The article is well described with sufficient experimental detail and the authors clearly articulate the 3Rs benefits of such work. One of the particularly novel aspects of this work is the ability to image in vivo the ICH-induced inflammatory processes and cellular interactions – this is not currently feasible in whole animal models, such as rodents. This may allow improved understanding of the early innate responses to spontaneous bleeding as occurs in ICH patients but which we cannot model in rodents. Although the authors state that this paper used equipment and procedures that are commonplace and relatively simple to adopt in other labs it is worth mentioning what barriers need to be overcome in order to facilitate ‘traditional’ rodent researchers adopting such a model and species. Specific comments: Authors state that a proportion of ATV-treated embryos did not develop ICH and therefore were used a controls – what proportion was unsuccessful? Can the authors suggest why not all were successful? Did this result in a group of animals forming a control group which was treated separately to another control group (i.e. the untreated siblings)? Not clear to me (although I am a rodent researcher!) how a brief exposure to anaesthesia at 72hpf would remove locomotor function bias or was necessary? Couldn’t a baseline measurement be taken and data compared to this? The authors states that the exposure to this brief anaesthesia was at 72hpf but also state functional analyses were done at 72, 96 and 120 hpf – did the first time point occur coincidentally with the brief anaesthesia? Authors have made available all underlying source data. Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 