In this article the authors present their views on laboratory record keeping procedures and argue that electronic laboratory notebooks (eLN) would be most suitable to support modern scientific research replacing the traditional, paper based version. One major strength of this paper is the personal experience of the authors with eLN from their own department. As it comes clear from the text, researchers are often reluctant to switch to eLN despite their advantages over the old fashioned laboratory notebooks. The authors arguments for using eLN are well taken: original data generated in laboratories are mostly digital, storage of large files, protocols or images requires electronic data management anyway, whilst data sharing or searching large databases, protocols becomes much easier if using eLN. In addition, eLN run on portable devices and entries can be time stamped and changes recorded, which is required by the scientific community and regulatory pressures. Whilst the authors’ preference is obvious for eLN, they are cautious with their recommendations and clearly outline the potential pitfalls of eLN as well. In my opinion, the following issues might deserve a short explanation: What is the level of detail researchers should record in eLN? In the case of standard LN, complex data files and large figures mostly remain electronic, whilst some figures, tables, analysis results and conclusions are incorporated into the LN. However, software running on dedicated machines (flow cytometers, imaging devices, etc) generate large files that are only partially extracted in text, PDF or other forms due to their incompatibility with common word processing tools. Should eLN users attempt to incorporate some of these data into eLN considering limitations in storage space, or such files should remain stored and analysed as earlier? How safe do the authors feel keeping most of their research data in an organized manner in eLN using cloud-based systems or large databases that are available from external servers or institutions? Are there measures large research units should consider before switching to eLN to support the protection of intellectual property or their patent applications? Overall, I find this article very useful and informative. I suspect that in the near future most research labs will not be able to avoid using eLN due to a number of reasons explained clearly in the paper. Practical information from experienced users will greatly support the willingness of researchers to start using eLN and this could also contribute to dealing with reproducibility issues in the future.