The article describes head-mounted camera systems as the most appropriate state-of-the-art recording devices for facial expression analysis. Two drawbacks of such setups are emphasised by the authors: the cost of commercialised headmounts and synchronisation of recordings with studied stimuli. First, the authors provide step-by-step assembly instructions to enable researchers to easily construct their own head-mounted camera setup as an affordable alternative option that requires minimal engineering expertise. Second, the authors introduce FaceSync, an open-source Python toolbox that they developed to automatically synchronize video recordings based on audio cues. A short audio segment can be played at the beginning of the experiment by e.g. a stimuli presenting software and be recorded by the head mounted camera. The toolbox allows the alignment of the video to the sound produced by the experimental software. In unstructured social interaction recordings, multiple videos can be aligned to a target video. The toolbox offers a sliding window search to find the offset that maximises the correlation between two audio signals and a fourier transform based cross-correlation method. To test that the head-mounted camera recording system provides a robust way to record facial expressions, the authors ran several studies with users. Nowadays, however, facial expression analysis is not limited to fixed cameras and webcams. The authors describe perfectly the added value of head mounted cameras for (automatic) facial expression analysis but do not describe the current state of the art in terms of comparable hardware and software. Given fast progress, e.g. in immersive technologies, a variety of solutions exist. The authors should consider discussing the expensive commercial options (e.g. Google glasses with Emotiv SDK and OpenCV for visual processing) and the open access options that do exist, e.g. for video alignment and facial expression recording from similar devices. If no user study can be done on similar hardware and software for comparison, please provide sufficient information in the state of the art and discussion sections. Please consider emphasising the added value of the article/framework in the title and abstract. Please make it clearer whether FaceSync is a synchronisation system (based on audio) as described in the manuscript or a framework for recording facial expression, as in the title. 