The manuscript "Efficacy of the combination of crude extracts of Solanum nigrum and Plumbago capensis on Leishmania major" by Mutoro et al submitted to the F1000Research deals with an important subject, that of bioactive compounds extraction from plants and their anti-protozoa activities. The results reported here should be useful to the community in searching for more effective drugs to treat Leishmaniasis. The manuscript is well written but the overall approach is quite incomplete. Thus, I have a few questions/concerns about the current work, as detailed below, which should be addressed before indexing. For any compound to be evaluated it is important that the methodology used is very clearly defined, and unfortunately this paper major lacunae is just that. In the Methodology section, the authors suggest that the leishmanicidal activity of the assayed extracts could be due to the presence of synergy between them. Could the authors provide the phytochemical profile of the assayed extracts? Results are not properly presented and discussed. The data are presented in seven table and two figures, however not properly presented, analyzed and interpreted. Anti promastigote activity was measured using L. amazonensis promastigotes (10 6 parasites/mL) and cell viability tested daily for 5 days using light microscopy. My first objection is in the use of light microscopy to measure parasite viability; it is very error prone owing to the motility of parasites, and because better semi quantitative methods are available (MTT or Alamar Blue Assay). Later in the anti-amastigote assay, they have exposed infected macrophages to extracts, daily for 3 days post infection and cells were fixed and stained after 5 days? I am unable to understand how this approach was adopted. I think the test approach is flawed and needs to be reviewed. In addition, the authors should be performed the cytotoxicity assay. How was in vitro dose decided? Why were high concentrations of the extracts (2000 μg/mL, 1000 μg/m, 500μg/mL and 250μg/mL) used? When data is uneven, judgment about its value is difficult. Thus, several concerns can be raised about the value of this work. Later, in the discussion, they state that “As observed in the current study, the standard drugs were significantly more effective (P≤ 0.05) against Leishmania promastigotes and amastigotes as compared to all the blends of the extracts. It was observed in the present study that all the blends of extracts induced little ( 1.5 M) production of NO by peritoneal macrophages which might have played a role in the amastigote inhibition”. So the reader ends up totally confused and demotivated to proceed to the conclusion section. Some paragraphs the authors only revise the literature. However, they do not present a discussion. This is necessary to provide the manuscript of more scientific soundness. One way to proceed would be to request the authors to calculate do cytotoxicity test against host cell and parasites using MTT or Alamar blue assay (necessary to calculate IC 50 ). In addition, to determine phytochemical profile of the assayed extracts. Minor mistake: English language usage: Methods section: The word “extraction” is not used correctly, I would advise that the author use the word ‘isolation’ instead as it is more commonly used. 