This study investigated the effects of media conditioned by umbilical cord (UC)-derived and adipose-derived stromal cells on "breast cancer stem cells." The measured outcomes were aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A3 (ALDH1A3), TGF-β1 and TβR1 messenger RNA. The methodology and data analysis are straight-forward and sound. The major finding was that culture in the presence of umbilical cord-derived stromal cell conditioned medium resulted in higher expression of ALDH1A3, TGF-β1, and TβR1 mRNA, compared to control medium. In contrast, adipose stromal cell conditioned medium resulted in slightly lower expression of TGF-β1, and TβR1 mRNA, but this was a modest effect. The authors conclude that different secretomes of UC- and adipose-derived stromal cells differentially regulate ALDH1A3 expression in breast cancer "stem cells", a point that is well-supported by their results. They further conclude that differential regulation of ALDH1A3 may be related to autocrine TGF-β1 signalling in modulating cell proliferation and stemness of breast cancer stem cells. This is speculative and based on a partial correlation of expression levels of the three measured mRNAs. If anything, the data speak against a causal relationship, as adipose-conditioned medium failed to down-regulate ALDH1A3 message, but modestly downregulated TGF-β1, and TβR1 mRNA. To their credit, the authors point out that the present results are inconsistent with their previous published data on ALDH1A1, OCT4 and SOX2 expression. These results speak to the difficulty of modeling the interactions of stromal cells and cancer cells. Using freshly isolated human breast cancer cells, flow-sorted on the basis light scatter and expression of CD90, we found that co-injection of adipose stromal cells in a xenograft model increased tumorgenicity of active, but not resting tumor cells. In vitro, coculture of unpassaged breast cancer cells with adipose stromal cells greatly increased their proliferation 1 . The take-home is that the state of the cancer cells matters as much as the the signals provided by the stromal cells and microenvironment. To complicate matters further, stromal cells themselves can be polarized into pro- and anti-inflammatory states 2 resulting in different secretomes. ​​​​ At a minimum, the authors should provide detailed information about the preparation of their "breast cancer stem cells", as these are not standard reagents. Additionally, UC- and adipose-conditioned media have not been characterized for cytokine/chemokine content. This is relatively simple to do, as multiplexed kits are commercially available and would significantly contribute to a more mechanistic understanding of the data. A minor consideration: wording such as "nowadays" and "on top of that" are rather colloquial for a scientific publication.​​​ 