The paper by Liu et al. describes the production and evaluation of a recombinant version of rSVmab1, a monoclonal antibody that was recently described to bind to the Na v 1.7 DII voltage sensor domain, resulting in block of Na v 1.7 sodium currents and reduction of pain and itch in rodent models (Lee et al., 2014). Interesting and surprisingly, Liu et al ., show that recombinant SVmab1, produced with the aid of publically available sequence information, does not bind either peptide immunogen, purified Na v 1.7 DII voltage sensor domain, or Na v 1.7 in live HEK293, U-2 OS, and CHO-K1 cells. Consistent with the lack of binding, they further show that rSVmab has no specific effect on Na v 1.7 currents measured in patch clamp studies employing protocols that interrogate a variety of Na v 1.7 gating states. The study seems to have been conducted in a careful and thorough manner. In our opinion, the results conclusively show that recombinant SVmab, produced according to published sequence information, does not bind to, or inhibit Na v 1.7, and therefore does not represent a valid tool for the exploration of Na v 1.7 biology. These findings raise the important question as to why results with the recombinant form of the antibody differ so drastically from published results with SVmab purified from hybridoma. One possibility, alluded to by Liu et al , is that the published sequence is different from the mAb purified from the hybridoma. If the authors have access to the original hybridoma-derived SVmab, it would be interesting to see side-by-side studies with the two forms of the antibody (alternatively, it would be interesting to hear from Lee et al ., if they already have these comparative data at hand). Although unlikely, another possibility suggested by Liu et al , is that differences exist in Na v 1.7 glycosylation or beta subunit expression in the HEK293 cell lines utilized in the two studies. Since Lee et al ., demonstrated that SVmab could block sodium currents (presumably Na v 1.7) in small DRG neurons, it might be informative to know whether the recombinant SVmab was similarly able to block these native Na v 1.7-mediated currents. The original findings by Lee et al , indicated that mAbs directed to the DII VSD might represent a viable strategy for inhibiting Na v 1.7 function. Unfortunately the rSVmab described in the present study is not a useful tool for further examination of this strategy. Interestingly however, Liu et al. , show that the “positive control” mAb from Abmart, binds with high affinity to the peptide immunogen and the purified Na v 1.7 DII voltage sensor domain. It would be very interesting to know if this control mAb could inhibit Na v 1.7 function in patch-clamp studies. Minor points: rSVmab was tested at 200nM in the peptide ELISA, 13nM in the DII VSD ELISA, 33nM in the FACs assays and up to 500nM in the patch clamp studies. Why was the rSVmab tested at different concentrations in each study and why was binding not assessed at concentrations used in the functional studies? Page 4 5. Should 8x6 10 and 3x6 10 be 8x10 6 and 3x10 6 ? Why was no capacitance or series resistance compensation applied in the patch clamp studies? Please provide an estimate of typical series resistance values and associated voltage-errors. Please provide more information on “MABN41”. Does this mAb recognize the DII VSD or a different extracellular epitope? The recombinantly produced rSVmab was flash frozen following purification and prior to testing. Although many proteins tolerate freezing and thawing, including antibodies, there are some that do not, and this is a relatively minor variable worth considering. 