This work reports a standard R/Bioconductor open source workflow for the analysis of microbial community profiling data based on (Illumina MiSeq) 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. The main contribution of the paper is to present a compact overview of a typical microbiome analysis workflow in R, and to integrate accumulated knowledge by the authors regarding best practices in microbiome bioinformatics based on the R statistical programming environment. The workflow covers key steps from raw sequencing data prepreprocessing to standard statistical testing, data integration, and visualization. The methodologies are rigorous, and represent a straightforward combination of previously published R tools that are among the state-of-the-art in the field. Reliance on Bioconductor packages provides further guarantees for high quality of the software components. All data and code underlying the paper are openly available, and I was also able replicate the complete workflow after some initial setups. I examined about half of the examples in more detail, and could reproduce manuscript figures in all cases that I tested. No new methods are introduced, and the main contribution of the work is to showcase good statistical practice based on existing software components, some of which have been previously published by the authors of this manuscript. Appropriate references are provided throughout the text. Such overview papers are useful, however, as they can provide benchmarks and recommendations on complete workflows, where the different analysis steps are not independent in any real study and deserve analysis in their own right. The analysis steps are explained in clear language and with sufficient detail. The work is technically sound. The main drawback is that the manuscript is somewhat scattered as it aims to cover a large and versatile set of tools in a single paper. The quality of the analysis is high, and the overview is useful, and the paper could be accepted after taking into account my comments below. Major comments The work is somewhat scattered due to the wide coverage. The paper could benefit from having less figures and and increasing focus on key aspects. For instance the number of biplots and network figures could be reduced. The data integration part (CCA etc.) is useful but very brief and probably difficult to comprehend by readers who are new to those approaches. I would recommend either cutting or expanding this part and also otherwise checking if the manuscript can be made more compact by removing some examples (perhaps by moving some examples into supplementary material or online documentation?). The examples with DADA2 and the hierarchical testing procedure are particularly useful; these recently published methods would deserve to become more widely used. Sufficient details have been given for this work. Instructions on how to exactly use the source files provided in Github are missing. The rnw files are missing latex headers so I could not readily generate final readable reports from the rnw files. The code itself was clear, and after some setups I could replicate all analyses after changing some path definitions and running the code interactively on R command line. But this relied on my earlier good knowledge on R and automated document generationsystems. Users who are less experienced with these tools would benefit from improved instructions on how to run the workflow. The README.md file in Github should give more detailed instructions (or link to instructions) on how to exactly reproduce the complete example workflow and generate the final reports. In the "Infer sequence variants" section it is mentioned that "Sequence inference removed nearly all substitution and indel errors from the data". How this was quantified to reach this conclusion? Minor comments The phyloseq R package has been published earlier and represents an extremely useful class structure for microbiome profiling data that has high potential of becoming a popular standard in R. These tools, and their (online) documentation form essential background material for this manuscript. Better separaration of the data structures and tools in this manuscript, the R packages (in particular phyloseq) and their documentation. This would make it easier for the wider R community to build on this work and contribute further tools that take advantage of the phyloseq data structure. This is not required for this manuscript but a suggestion for improvement. I had to investigate the code a while to see that the file http://www.mothur.org/MiSeqDevelopmentData/StabilityNoMetaG.tar has to be stored in a data/MiSeq_SOP/ directory after download and extraction. Not a big deal but it would be even more handy to have a download script (R or shell) available in the F1000_workflow/data/ directory, and the instructions would then give clear advice on how to automate the complete analysis workflow. To streamline the workflow example, consider providing some example data sets as R data packages. At the github repo README.md the command knit("PartIIphyloseq.Rnw") should be knit("PartIIphyloseq.rnw") In PartIIIanalysis.rnw the script gets stuck at: options(digits = 3, width = 80,prompt = " ", continue = " ") (I was waiting 24 hours; then restarted and tried again with same result). Therefore I skipped this row in my tests. Please fix. Is it intentional that figures 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and some other figures have an unbalanced width/height ratio? The figures might seem more clear if the width/height ratio was more balanced. The plot_abundance function could be readily provided in the phyloseq package? Quality of Figure 1 is relatively poor and could be improved. Figure 31: in title: fix "muliple" into "multiple" 