This paper introduces the Biomedical Research Informatics Computing System (BRICS), a comprehensive platform that supports researchers collect, store, analyze, and securely share research data. The underlying principle that motivated and enabled the implementation of this system is the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) principle for biomedical data. The authors provided clear and highly informative descriptions of the architecture and the approaches to implementing the key functional components. The related initiatives and programs that aim at improving data use and reuse and the gaps found in them provide a convincing context for BRICS development. The figures presented in the paper adequately describe the structure, functions, and workflows of BRICS. The research programs and initiatives that already utilize BRICS introduced in the paper are strong evidence that supports the BRICS approach. All in all, this is a well-written, very informative paper. The changes suggested below could help strengthen this paper even more: The conventional section structure that includes methods and results might not fit well with this paper. If F1000Research allows some flexibility in the manuscript structure, it will help readers follow the progress of the content by changing the Method section to something like BRICS Functionalities and Components (or something along this line) and Result to BRICS Instance (or use cases). Also, the query module explained in the result section can be included in the BRICS functionalities and components section. A brief description of how the study level metadata (e.g., sample size, study design, study location, etc.) are captured would be helpful as study-level metadata are among the most frequently used parameters for data/dataset search. Accessing a broader scope of data is one of the main motivations that researchers would adopt this type of data platform. Therefore, although it is not related to the technological development of BRICS, introducing more information on the data sharing policies (i.e., data use agreement and DAC's responsibilities) would be beneficial. Please correct minor errors, such as typos and introducing BRICS first without fully spelling out the acronym. 