The authors present an analysis of birth defects by season from a single hospital in an unnamed West African country relative to a purported mosquito season. Their conclusion is that the seasonality of certain types of birth defects, consistent with CZS, could be explain by Zika virus transmission in the area. This is an interesting attempt to use available data to speculate about the impact of Zika virus on congenital defects in an endemic area. Although this is certainly thought-provoking and supports the authors recommendation to improve surveillance for Zika virus in endemic areas, there is insufficient discussion of all of the limitations to this particular analysis which, if included, would cast doubt on their proposed conclusion. The limitation that the data are from a single hospital in an un-named location make it impossible to make any generalizable conclusions and to understand any limitations completely. Data do not exist on the underlying sero-prevalence of Zika virus infection in this population (I assume). However, given that Zika virus infection likely results in lifelong immunity, one might not expect to see any change in CZS-like defects simply due to a low number of susceptible pregnant women. Were the women with infants with birth defects generally younger and therefore less likely to have been previously infected? And why wouldn't we expect children to have a high rate of infection resulting in immunity as they reach child-bearing age? Again, although difficult to determine given the lack of geographic specificity provided, there is minimal discussion in the paper of other potential causes of microcephaly; most notably rubella and malnutrition. Although rubella-related birth defects might not be expected to show any seasonality, malnutrition might. As might toxoplasmosis. The time period covered by this report encompasses both the Ebola outbreak and significant Yellow fever activity; both of these could cause confounding in the data. Mosquito species are quite variable in their feeding habits, optimal climactic conditions and in their vectorial capacity. Relying on patterns of malarial disease to represent what is likely to happen with a flavivirus like Zika which is transmitted by different species of mosquitoes should be considered to be a limitation. What about using Yellow fever or dengue disease patterns? Lastly, while I understand the argument the authors are making, I found the assertion that the maternal infection period of August through October encompassed the peak and latter half of the warm, rainy season confusing. Based on the presented data, August through October had minimal rain and lower than average temperatures. October through December was described as the cool, dry season although temperatures peak for the year in November through January (according to the data presented by the authors). 