I reviewed the manuscript "Maize phyllosphere microbial community niche development across stages of host leaf growth" by Manching et al. published in F1000Research . I rated this article "Approved with Reservations". Summary : The researchers used a staggered experimental design to examine microbial community assembly processes on leaves of Zea mays . That is, they planted seeds at different times, and then collected samples on one date from 7 different growth stages of maize (Days 30, 41, 48, 58, 62, 72, 80). They examined leaf samples from 10 plants at each growth stage using two approaches. First, they examined microbial communities using SEM and categorized microorganisms into different size class units (SCUs). Second, they examined microbial communities using ARISA and categorized taxa into different operational taxonomic units (OTUs). Using microscopic and molecular approaches they found different results. Size-classes varied on days 41 and 48, first dropping in average size and then increasing in average size. On the rest of the dates, the size classes did not differ. OTUs were different between days 30 and 80, but for the rest of the time period, the communities did not differ significantly. To explore this further, the researchers used a network analysis approach to elucidate how either specific SCUs or OTUs were related to changes (positive or negative) in other SCUs or OTUs, respectively. They found that there were more positive co-occurrences than negative co-occurrences in both datasets, but that most individual data points did not have a significant co-occurrence pattern with other members of the dataset. They found a relatively small number of core SCUs and OTUs across the different time points of the dataset. They suggest that this may indicate that there are a number of specialists in the maize phyllosphere microbial community, and conclude that their results provide evidence for niche-based contributions to microbial community assembly on maize leaves. Overall, the manuscript provides novel information about changes in phyllosphere microbial communities during development stages of an important agricultural crop. The idea that plant leaves can be used for basic studies of microbial community assembly is interesting and the use of complementary datasets (size and composition) was a good approach, because it gets at 2 aspects of the community. There were a few issues with the manuscript that I believe need to be addressed before it is acceptable. Work is discussed appropriately in the context of the current literature No, unfortunately the literature review needs to be updated. There are several important publications in this field that should be included, and this will require a re-write of the introduction and discussion sections. See: Redford et al. 1 Kembel et al. 2 Whether suitable methods have been used There are several things that are unclear about the choices for the experimental design. Please address: - Why were the specific day-intervals and developmental stage-dates chosen? Do they relate to specific physiological processes in maize development or were they chosen at random? Explain this choice further in the methods/results. - Planting all seeds for a particular treatment (i.e. development stage) in the same row sets the experiment up for statistical issues that are usually dealt with using a randomized block. In the current experimental design, one can interpret the results that (for example) day 30 and day 80 plant samples differ in OTU composition simply because the 30 day plants are subject to a different environmental variable than the 80 day plants (maybe soil nitrogen or light or water). Please re-do analyses using a randomized block and provide any information to suggest that there is no gradient that may account for significant differences across treatments. - The samples were collected and analyzed in 2009. At that time ARISA was a suitable method for this study, but since then, several other methods have been developed that could address the hypotheses more fully. For example, using predicted metagenomics pathways might indicate that there is a connection between community structure and cell size that was not demonstrated with ARISA. The authors need to address that this could be the case in the discussion and that further studies using these techniques could yield different results. I liked that the investigators included control DNA extractions. Were there any OTUs associated with the controls? How were those dealt with in ARISA processing? I thought that the network visualization approach was interesting, but it is really unclear what the authors are showing with Figure 5b. If it is just that the interconnections between SCUs gets really complicated, then I do not think a figure is necessary. Sufficient information and source data have been provided to allow others to repeat every step of the work Yes, I think there is sufficient information to repeat the work. The conclusions are supported by the findings. No, I think that there are a few things that need to be addressed in the discussion. First, please refer to the references I listed above and the articles that have cited them since, and re-think the discussion in that new framework. Second, the statistical issues of having all of 1 treatment in 1 row need to be addressed, otherwise all statistical results could be considered related to some unknown environmental gradient. Some minor comments: The introduction is mostly about community assembly. However, to me, the really interesting thing about this study is that it is done using a major agricultural crop. Little is discussed about why it would be interesting to know about bacterial community assembly in this plant. Perhaps there is a context for plant productivity or agricultural disease that could be expanded to make the intro more specific to the study? I found the organization of the manuscript difficult to follow. Please reorder so that all SEM-related sections are together and all ARISA sections are together in the methods. Then follow whatever order you have chosen for the results. The supplementary data tables are simply raw R output. Can you summarize the raw output in a supplementary table and then provide the raw output so that it is easier for the reader to interpret? It would be easier to interpret Tables 1 and 2 if the significances were just included in Figure 3 instead of in a separate table. (i.e. put the letters above each of the averages shown in Figure 3 to indicate significances) Figure 3 - the red/green dots are difficult to see (and I am not red/green color blind, so it would be even harder for 10% of our colleagues). Please adjust these so that they are more obviously different or have different shapes. Supplementary Figure 3 needs a legend that identifies what each of the SCU_IDs are and more information about the graph. On page 9, the authors state that "In the ARISA datatype, highly variable co-occurring…". Please provide more of a definition of what you mean by "highly variable". Is this quantifiable? Discussion Section - there are 3 different referencing styles used. Change for consistency. 