The authors describe data updates to the already established TargetMine database. The updates allow candidate genes to be checked for genetic evidence for disease and target tractability. The authors clearly demonstrate the utility in integrating the new data through a set of use cases. The sophisticated web interface allows for powerful exploration and advanced querying of the data, making the resource a valuable tool for pharmaceutical research and development. The following minor points should be addressed: In the introduction it is mentioned that additional information and analysis, such as pathway enrichment, are needed to assess aspects of target suitability, but such analysis is not shown in the use-cases. It would be useful to demonstrate features that TargetMine provides that are not available in similar systems such as Open Targets and Pharos. In addition the authors describe how the new data can be used but do not tie this in with the wealth of data already available in TargetMine which could also be used for tractability studies, such as uniprot and interpro protein domains. TargetMine includes an extensive API but this is not mentioned in the paper. Access to this data through an API could have clear advantages for anyone wishing to set up a workflow or provide a more automated analysis. The use case “Gathering and prioritising candidate drug target genes” would be difficult for someone unfamiliar with searching an interMine-based database to reproduce. First, the set of genes (or the filtered set of human genes) should be provided as supplemental material. An overview of a set of queries constructed using the TargetMine query builder is provided. However, to reproduce this set of queries using the query builder is not immediately obvious for a naive user. A more detailed set of screenshots as supplementary material could help, or provision of the set of queries as a series of template searches. A note on how often the data will be updated should be included. Plans for further data additions could be included. The reference for TargetMine (8) should be updated to contain the correct author list. 