In their manuscript, the authors adapt the use of podocyte-specific ablation using transgenic diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR) expression to the mouse. The murine model functions similarly to the previously described rat model of Wiggens et al. Using the model, the authors examine the role of ACE inhibition (captopril) as a protective therapy. Overall, the conclusions are well supported by the experimental results, though the experiments are neither as detailed nor as compelling as those previously published by others. The two major conclusions of the manuscript, that podocyte depletion can lead to the initiation of a feed-forward podocyte pathology and that ACE inhibition can slow or ameliorate this process, have been well documented by others. The major concerns about the interpretation of the results stem from the fact that: 1. two different transgenic lines are used without clear side-by-side comparison of both lines for the most relevant experiments; and 2. the animals used in the captopril experiment are mixed sex and of a very large range of ages (3-12 months), likely leading to the large variability in the data, limiting power, and making it difficult to lend much credence to the negative results regarding captoprils effect on podocyte numbers. Analysis of the data using matching for age and sex, if possible, would be of interest. Overall, the 57 transgenic lines used in the ACEi experiment show only very modest glomerular sclerosis compared to controls (Figure 6), and the control animals in this experiment have surprisingly lower number of podocytes per glomerulus (8.2; figure 8) compared to control animals in an earlier experiment (10.0, figure 4). Some explanation should be provided. Minor points: Figure 3 legend refers to p values, body weight to which there are no corresponding data presented. Figure 5a: Is there a difference between the and ? For figure 5b, the lines connecting the time points should be removed. In addition, including individual values and means (as in other figures) or at least including the ns would be helpful. Number of animals/samples should be consistently provided in the figures (eg figure 8, 5b). 