The paper “GoodVibes: automated thermochemistry for heterogeneous computational chemistry data” by Paton et al. describes GoodVibes, an open-source program to compute thermochemical parameters from the output of popular computational chemistry software accounting for multiple well-established thermodynamic corrections developed and used for chemistry in the gas phase and in solutions. The aim is to provide a general tool to apply these corrections straightforwardly without much effort saving time for practitioners and making the corresponding results more reproducible for the entire scientific community. Overall, the paper is clear, well-written, and explains the rationale for developing the program. All the theoretical models implemented are described and cited appropriately. I believe that this program is a very important contribution to the field as it simplifies the process of applying thermochemical corrections greatly, which otherwise can be quite time-consuming and is, as the authors point out appropriately, error-prone due to the considerable number of calculation steps that need to be carried out. I have tested the current version of the program and both installation and usage are well-documented and straightforward for anyone with minimal python experience. However, having inspected the source code of the current version, I am concerned about the implementation, or lack thereof, of a few important thermochemical corrections as I will outline in the section “Major Issues” in more detail. Moreover, I believe that there are a few minor issues that require correction and I will outline them in the section “Minor Issues.” Major issues: My main concern with the current version of GoodVibes is that I believe that Grimme’s quasi-harmonic correction is not implemented correctly. In line 1922 of GoodVibes.py, the authors define the average moment of inertia as 10 ∙ 10 -44 kg m 2 and use this value as a global parameter for every molecule. However, I believe that this is a misinterpretation of the method by Grimme as described in reference 3 of the paper. In that paper, Grimme uses this specific value in Figure 2 merely as an illustration of a typical example to show how the mathematical shape of this correction looks. It is never stated that this value is to be used as a global parameter for all molecules. In fact, the average moments of inertia need to be calculated for every molecule at hand from the respective Cartesian coordinates of the conformer used and the masses of all the atoms. In my opinion, this issue needs to be addressed properly by implementing the calculation of the average moment of inertia of a conformer based on its Cartesian coordinates in GoodVibes. This is particularly important for large molecules with hundreds of atoms because their average moment of inertia will deviate significantly from the used global parameter. After close inspection of the code, I believe that, currently, GoodVibes applies the solvent correction as obtained from the output of COSMOtherm as is without any adjustments. However, it has been pointed out recently that this is (unfortunately) a common mistake as COSMOtherm uses the mole fraction reference state for pure solvent rather than the concentration reference state. Consequently, this leads to inconsistencies in the standard states used and to a systematic offset in predicted Gibbs free energies of solvation. The details of this problem and how to correct for it are described in the literature. 1 Moreover, I inspected the code of GoodVibes in order to find out whether a correction for the entropy of mixing of multiple species is applied. I could not find such a correction. I believe that this is an important correction, especially for reactions with changing molecularity. This correction is outlined in reference 21 of the paper, in particular in the SI of reference 21. Minor issues: Page 4, first paragraph: The authors mention that electronic structure calculations have a tendency to overestimate vibrational frequencies relative to experiment. In my opinion, this is misleading as the tendency to overestimate vibrational frequencies is not inherent to the electronic structure methods applied but rather inherent to the harmonic approximation of the vibrational potential energy surface. Hence, I suggest that the authors mention that specifically, possibly with an appropriate citation. For that purpose, citation 8 of the paper could be used as it addresses this issue properly. Page 4, “Operation” paragraph: In my opinion, appropriate citations should be added for the COSMO-RS method. Page 4, “Use case” first paragraph: The authors mention that in the output plots, “dashes [are] connected by the curved profiles.” In my opinion, the authors should mention explicitly what interpolation method is used to generate these curved profiles. Page 4, “Use case” second paragraph: The authors state that “in previous works” small imaginary frequencies “typically under i50 cm -1 ” were inverted. From a mathematical point of view, I believe this to be imprecise notation. Natural linear ordering on the sets of neither complex nor imaginary numbers is possible. Hence, the notation “i50 cm -1 ”, even though it has been used in Chemistry, should be avoided. To resolve this issue, it should be stated that the absolute of the imaginary frequency should be below 50 cm -1 . In addition, the imaginary units should be added to the “small imaginary frequency of 2.9 cm -1 ” in the same sentence. This is just a suggestion rather than an issue: It would be great to have the option to save the plots generated by GoodVibes in a number of formats including, in particular, formats supporting vector graphics like PDF as this would make it easier to use the graphics directly for generating high-resolution illustrations. 