The paper describes the generation and characterisation of two immortalised bovine epithelial cell lines to be used in conjunction with bovine arterial endothelial cells for the creation of structures that would model the alveolar environment of bovine species. The authors very clearly list the potential applications of such approach and its impact on the 3Rs. It would be desirable to explain in more depth what is the incontrovertible evidence that such models are truly representative of an in vivo situation. The introduction is very clear and comprehensive and allows the reader to gain information on the background to the study and on the general context of the experiments. The methods section is also clear and detailed, thus allowing reproducibility of the experiments. There are a few points that the authors might want to address in their revision of the manuscript. Figure 3. The pictures relative to the wild type cells are hugely different from the ones obtained when using either of the cell lines. This might be confusing for the reader who may wonder how such large morphological differences can then lead to the conclusion that the immortalised cells lines are a good model for the natural alveolar environment. Perhaps this needs to be explained more clearly and discussed in detail. In some sections the authors describe results for only one cell line (e.g. Matrigel cultures) whilst in others they cover both cell lines. This may be confusing. A clear explanation of the choice of the cell markers is not always provided in the results section. This would make the manuscript clearer. It might be helpful to have a conclusive statement at the end of each section of the results to state the main findings and conclusions of that particular set of experiments. Similarly, a sentence introducing each section and explaining why the experiments were done would add clarity. This is done for some results sections but not for others. Therefore, sometimes the reader is left to wonder....why are they doing this? It might be useful to show some histological and immune-fluorescence pictures of alveolar structures from a bovine lung to show the extent of similarities and differences between the proposed approach and the mammalian alveolar structure. Alveolar macrophages (together with other immune cells) are a key to lung homeostasis and protection against infectious diseases. It needs explaining how structures devoid of such important immune cells can be considered representative of an in vivo situation, especially when one of the intended uses would be the study of infectious diseases. The approach described in this study entails the generation of cell lines from a single animal. How can the authors be sure that these cell lines would be representative especially when dealing with a species that is clearly outbred. What are the dangers of animal-to-animal variability and therefore lack of representativeness? Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Yes Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 