This is an interesting report on structural brain changes in 12 aniridia patients examined by structural MRI studies, using 12 selected matching controls for comparison. The title and abstract convey details appropriately. I should say at the outset that I have no expertise in MRI methodology and cannot compare the techniques used here with those used elsewhere, including our own papers. It is clear, however, that MRI has advanced technically to a significant extent since the first set of papers was published in 2001-3. We need to know how directly comparable the results are. Certainly Sisodiya et al. in 2001 (ref 17) Mitchell et al. and 2003 (ref 18) used voxel-based morphometry and less powerful MRI measurements but showed similar findings with observed reduction or absence of the anterior commissure and olfactory bulb (ref 17) and of the pineal (ref 18). The current study does not mention study of the olfactory bulb. Interestingly olfactory function was also shown to be reduced and very occasionally absent in the first study (ref 17). Reduced interhemispheric transfer is thought to underlie the observed auditory processing problems reported in children with aniridia in ref 19. The current study reported in this paper does not undertake functional smell or auditory tests. Although what seems to be the same cohort, judging by the reported mutations, has been studied by functional fMRI by Pierce et al (ref 24). Surprisingly this overlapping author group (with the current paper) reports an apparently increased functional connectivity in the patients studied in the current paper. The earlier studies by other groups do not look at these functional connectivity changes. It is regrettable that the later studies, including Yogarajah et al (ref 23) did not follow this up. Otherwise the major findings are remarkably similar for this study and the previous studies to explore 12 or more cases. The controls in ref 17 and 18 are larger numbers (100) and not directly paired controls. The study in Ref 20 where the posterior commissure reduction was observed, only looked at the index case from three families with aniridia and PAX6 mutations. Reference 23 re-examines many of the same cases as Ref 17 and 18, but about a decade later and with more powerful MRI using surface-based morphometry. The reduced cortical measurements are more obvious in these older cases. The observed reduction of the optic chiasm reported here in 7/12 cases is an interesting new finding, first suggested in the one of the three families studied by Abouzeid et al, ref 20. Minor comments In the Introduction the PAX6 mutations are described as mostly “single nucleotide polymorphisms”. This is incorrect the changes are extremely rare variants. There are no polymorphisms of any note in the extremely highly conserved PAX6 gene. It is a pity that the patient numbering is different in earlier fMRI work from this group (ref 24). Indeed it is not made clear that ref 24 studies the same cohort as observed in the current paper. It would help to have the protein effects of the mutations in Table 1. Can the olfactory bulb status be observed with the current cohort? It would be interesting to see that reported. 