There is not much information about modern management of cerebral tumours during pregnancy, so this paper is of some interest despite the small number of cases. Abstract This draws a conclusion and makes general recommendations– yet there was no related discussion within the Discussion section of the body of the paper. It is inappropriate anyway to draw conclusions based on a small retrospective case series, so this needs revision. After describing the cases and the drugs used, I suggest the author indicates what follows next in the paper ie. a more detailed description of cases and discussion of the drugs used for general anaesthesia. Introduction This reads well and is informative. I prefer the use of “fetus” and there is a good linguistic argument to be made for this spelling. Guidelines should be evidence-based, or in the absence of reasonable evidence at least consensus based, from a group of experts. I don’t think it is reasonable to suggest guidelines should come from ‘studies’ or be based on single institution experience with 7 cases – perhaps the authors should suggest a plan of obstetric and neurosurgical management. Results “Four patients (57%) underwent …” Please replace “case” with “patient’. Remifentanil and alfentanil are misspelt in several places. Table 2 legend - change to “Intracranial pressure”. Correct Table 1 heading to “Postoperative events”. Delete “Only” from the last sentence. Neonatal condition would be better placed in Table 2, because Table 1 describes several patients in whom tumour resection was much later than delivery, and Table 2 has the obstetric data. The GA technique for tumour resection is mentioned but not the GA technique for CS, which becomes a source of confusion when you later discuss drugs and their effects on the developing brain etc. Can this be added? Discussion A comment should be made about the exclusive use of GA. Regional block may be appropriate (and preferred by the patient) for CS if there is no evidence of raised intracranial pressure or recent seizures – in this series all patients had increased ICP or seizures. A comment about the location of fetal monitoring might also be useful. Correct to “cerebral oedema” and “epidural analgesia” in Management Issues. Preoperative seizure control and the implications of anticonvulsant therapy warrant a mention. ‘Motherhood’ statements such as “general anaesthesia is safe to be used with intracranial tumours” should be removed. The discussion of propofol should be re-focused and expanded a little – this is now widely considered suitable for induction in pregnancy, and the main issues are the dose-response curve compared with thiopentone and the neonatal outcome, rather than uterine relaxation. The potential neurotoxicity is not mentioned, yet later the volatiles are implicated and other drugs considered. This area of science is very interesting but no clinical conclusions have been drawn as yet, and I think it has been over-emphasised throughout the author's Discussion, to the detriment of clinical studies and information about the implications of drugs during neurosurgery. In relation to animal neurotoxicity studies, I suggest only drawing comparisons between various drugs and balance these with clinical information. The evidence condemning isoflurane is not supported by the references, which are paediatric case reports rather than fetal exposure. Few would consider isoflurane unacceptable, despite not being ideal; nor would desflurane or sevoflurane be avoided. References after 17 are muddled and do not apply to the text. This needs full review. In addition there are some odd choices of reference – e.g. the case report by McCarroll on remifentanil and peripartum cardiomyopathy is used to justify a comment about anticonvulsants, and ergometrine is discussed using a reference about craniotomy (or – all perhaps the McCarroll case? – but this would still be inappropriate). Again, suggesting that remifentanil is safe for the developing brain is premature if based only on mechanistic action considerations. Likewise use of dexmedetomidine, quoting a single case report! Please discuss mechanisms but don’t generalise. It would make more sense to discuss other drugs, some of which were surely used in the patients, in a more logical sequence (no information provided about GA technique for CS, but presumably oxytocin must have been used, possibly also nitrous oxide?). A restructure of the Discussion section with different headings should be considered. Please do not draw conclusions about safety based on a 7 patient case series.