The authors investigated functional connectivity (FC) changes during different time points in one mouse brain with the lesion to hippocampus. The study is very interesting and informative in several ways: they tracked longitudinal variations of FC through 3 weeks after the lesion was induced; they investigated three different stages of epilepsy; they introduced a network synchronization measure NCI which takes into account interactions between all electrodes; they divided frequencies into low (1-14Hz) and high (25-70Hz) frequency bands, in which they found interactions revealed through common neighbours; NCI was reflecting Correlation results in low frequency band. Even though the study is the first step to understand dynamics and (probably in the future the mechanism) of epilepsy using functional connectivity tools, I have few concerns. First of all since it is a case study, we are looking only at one animal data. We have to keep it in mind. The three time points: initial insult, latent period and chronic epilepsy are described as the interval of interest. Identification of interictal states are described in methods, but in the results this information was not taken into account. How number of seizures were distributed in different stages and how it could influence changes in FC? In the experimental protocol part when the injection is explained there is a mistake "saline or KA were delivered". It was only one mouse, so I suppose that only Kainic Acid was injected (and not saline, was mostly used for control condition). Since T-test is performed on a small sample size, it would be good to calculate also the effect size. In the results part the sentence starts "We analysed NCI across brain regions..." and then authors talk about correlations from electrodes in hippocampus, that is in C analysis, but not in NCI. Personally for me the results are very interesting, especially at DPI 0. We would expect to see differences in connections RH to RC, and from there RH with other regions in case of hippocampus damage, but its not described in the discussion at all. Methodologically paper is very good, though some physiological explanations or hypothesis in discussion would be useful. For example, why correlations remain strong despite the lesion in RH with LH in low freq; and between LH and LC in high frequency? This article is acceptable, although these minor corrections should be made.