In this manuscript, the Hollister and Stachelek outline the functionality and use of the lakemorpho R package. The package includes a number of tools that allow users to calculate morphological, including a some generally complex metrics that are not easy to recreate using existing functionality in available spatial packages. Packages such as these go a long way to preventing the constant re-inventing of the wheel by graduate students and other researchers in generating code to calculate these metrics. This package is a significant contribution to the field and this paper does a reasonable job of describing the package. I have a few minor suggestions that I think will improve the manuscript and applicability of the package. Some of these metrics are not immediately intuitive to most readers. It would be super useful to have a figure, maybe with a series of panels, that shows the reader what each of these metrics are on some example lakes where it matters. This would be great to have accompanying the section “Lake Morphology Functions”. There needs to be a description of what the option ‘pointDens’ means. Does it have units? Is it relative to the projection or independent of it? Further, while this may be difficult, would it be possible to show the sensitivity of output metrics to pointDens for complex lakes? It would be great to know if there was a reliable metric that could be used, perhaps a default informed by the total lake area or SDF? Such a default or heuristic would be really useful to the purported use here (calculations on a large number of less-studied lakes). Basically, if I use this on 1 million lakes at the continental scale, I really need an informed way to pick that pointDens value. Right now, this package has depth-related calculations for lakes which do not have observed bathymetry. It would be really useful if the package could be generalized to use observed bathymetry rasters in the calculation of max and mean depth. Such data are increasingly available (e.g. http://bathybase.org ). A lot of 1-D hydrodynamic models need an estimate of the hypsometric curve. It would be great if an additional function could be included that would use either an estimated bathymetry or a provided bathy raster (see earlier comment) and output the lake’s hypsometric curve. Very useful in hydrodynamic modeling. Here are a few additional publications you might consider referencing. At the moment, references to existing lake morphological literature is a little thin. Especially check out other work of Hkanson as he’s a morphology master. Hkanson, L. (2005), The Importance of Lake Morphometry for the Structure and Function of Lakes 1 Dunalska, J. a. (2011), Impact of morphometric and catchment variables on summer organic carbon richness in deep temperate lakes 2 Read, E. K. et al. (2015), The importance of lake-specific characteristics for water quality across the continental United States 3 I look forward to using this useful tool! 