Siwo et al . give a detailed report of their entry to the DREAM promoter activity prediction assessment, conducted in 2011. The paper describing the results of the assessment appeared in 2013 (Meyer et al .), and the entry from Siwo et al . (“FiRST”) was the top-performer overall. Meyer et al . gives few details about the specific methods, mentioning only that the FiRST entry used an SVM and did not use TF binding site motif information. Here it is clarified that FiRST is a simple method that uses only part of the sequence and the most prominent features were about nucleotide content. Because it is perhaps a little eye-opening (even embarrassing, depending on one’s point of view) that the best method in the assessment is so simple, this paper is an important footnote to Meyer et al . but it could be fleshed out further to get at what is going on. My suggestions for revisions are to give more detail about the properties of the sequences used and the relationship to performance. FiRST predicts from only the 100 bases of sequence upstream of the translation start (which was considered as part of the promoter by DREAM; I note this is not “upstream of the gene” as described by Siwo et al . in the methods section), and that their predictions were dominated by the effect of a simple measure of G content. Siwo et al . report that they did worse at predicting the synthetically mutated promoters (this was apparently not true overall across methods as reported by Meyer et al .). In Meyer et al ., adding tf binding information to FiRST improved performance. The authors mention this, but the most important reason that FiRST does poorly at predicting the synthetic mutations seems to be that most of the mutations (seems to be 29 out of 33, based on Table 1 of Meyer et al .) are not in the 100 bp window used. That is, because in most cases these synthetic sequences were (as I understand it) identical in features to other examples while having different activities, for the purposes of FiRST, they could only introduce prediction errors. In light of this fact the rest of the speculation about why performance varied in this way seems extraneous. It would also be useful to see more detailed information on the sequences used (e.g., the G content or other features), and the prediction error in each case. How well does one predict using G content alone? This might all be reconstructed from the data supplement helpfully provided, but the authors should consider providing the analysis. It also seems reasonable to ask for more details about the performance of other sequence windows. The main other missing piece from this paper is any discussion or evidence that the method works beyond the narrow confines of the DREAM setup. Even for the RP genes, does it make a useful prediction, that increasing the G content of RP promoters in that 100 bp window will decrease promoter activity? I am fine with leaving this as “future work” but it would be worth mentioning. Figure 2B is apparently the same as part of Figure 1E from Meyer et al ., except FiRST is not marked (actually there is a small difference in the values plotted; the combined score for FiRST looks closer to 2 than the 1.87 reported and plotted in Meyer et al .). The authors should clearly cite Meyer et al . in the figure caption as the source of the data for this figure, or simply point the readers to Meyer et al ., or else explain where the data came from if not from Meyer et al .