The paper “Exploring machine learning: A bibliometric general approach using SciMAT” by Rincon-Patino et al. presents an overview of areas of machine learning applications. The study is conducted using science mapping analysis with the SciMAT tool. A bibliography containing “machine” and “learning” keywords over the 10-year period (2007-2017) was extracted from Scopus. This period was split into six smaller periods, and the state of machine learning in each period was illustrated by two figures, strategic diagram, and selected thematic network. The paper is well written. The following recommendations are intended to improve the readability and message of the paper. Strategic diagrams may not be familiar for users who aren’t familiar with the SciMAT tool. Thus, the description of strategic diagrams given at the beginning of the Results section is better to be placed to the legend of the first figure. Also, clarify the meaning of “the basic and transversal themes.” Furthermore, the description of the lower-left quadrant, “the emerging or declining topics,” is confusing, it should be one or the other. Although the study claims to present a longitudinal analysis of the development of machine learning areas, it is the analysis and the description of individual time periods, presented on individual figures. I am missing the compare-and-contrast view of the analysis, which would have been possible if the figures would be presented side-by-side. Given the good readability of the strategic diagrams, it is perfectly possible to combine them into one figure. The same can be done for the selected thematic networks, by making edges shorter, thicker, and fonts - larger. It is unclear whether the manuscript is about the overview of machine learning fields, or the tool SciMAT and the science mapping analysis. Besides simply describing what the results are at each time period, it would be good to have some conclusions about the longitudinal trends of the field. Although the rationale for choosing the non-equal smaller periods in understandable, the periods themselves should be better defined. At the very least, state that the presented periods are inclusive, that is, 2007-2009 spans the 3-year period. Better, adopt (MM/DD/YYYY-MM/DD/YYYY] notation. Figure 1 shows the growing number of documents containing “machine” and “learning” keywords. However, it is known that the number of publications per year grows by itself. It would be more informative to show the proportion of published documents that contain machine" and “learning” keywords. The usefulness of representing the proportion of publications can be illustrated with the following R code: library(MDmisc) # devtools::install_github('mdozmorov/MDmisc') library(ggplot2) p - get_pubmed_graph("machine learning", yearstart = 2007, yearend = 2017, normalize = TRUE, xlab = "Year", ylab = "Proportion of all publications") p ggsave("pubmed_machine_learning.png", p, device = "png", height = 4) 