 Correct this grammar: with the total number teacher who agreed to partake in the study being 133 teachers in the intervention group and 145 teachers in the control group. Should be: with the total number of teachers who agreed to partake in the study being 133 teachers in the intervention group and 145 teachers in the control group. With a nested design, teachers within schools and schools being assigned to condition, the required number of teachers needed would be greater than the number apparently calculated. I suggest software such as Optimal Design. https://www.theanalysisfactor.com/sample-size-randomized-trials/ Only one alpha coefficient is reported but it is apparent that there are five subsclasses. Coefficients should be calculated for each separately, unless there is statistical evidence that they all load on one factor. No such evidence is provided. I appreciate that the questionnaire was made available. It is not clear if a pre-test and post-test were given, or if just a post-test was given. It sounds like there might have been a pre-test (baseline is mentioned), but it is not clear. Significance should be p.05, not 95% (this was correctly noted in the tables, but not in the narrative). The data presented in Table 3 is very promising; however, a one-way ANOVA with repeated measures or MANOVA would have been a more appropriate analytic method. Also, it is a bit bothersome to have t values presented some of the time and Z values the rest of the time. If consistency cannot be maintained, it should be explained. Tables 3 and 4 present results that could be combined. The second paragraph of the discussion includes a wordy rehash of the results paragraph about the same topic. I think the discussion should focus more on interpretation of results. There really is not a treatment and a control group. Both sets of teachers are exposed to an intervention; therefore, both groups are treatment groups. They are just different in the format with which they received training. There really is no control group and it is misleading to call the group that received paper instruction as such. I would change the title of the paper to fit this reality. 