The manuscript is written in a good structure and presents useful data including the rate of anti- Toxoplasma antibodies (IgG and IgM) in sera of pregnant women referred to hospitals of two districts in Pakistan. The manuscript however requires some corrections and modifications as follows: The authors should consider that “toxoplasmosis” is not necessarily “illness or disease” as such they have mentioned in many parts of the manuscript. Toxoplasmosis is an infection which is mostly latent and does not lead to disease or illness in most of immunocompetent individuals. Also, some other issues in the Introduction are scientifically susceptible, e.g. toxoplasma acquisition in fetuses during delivery (mentioned in the 3 rd paragraph of the Introduction); to my knowledge, this issue is not documented in the literature. The basis of data arrangement, analysis and discussion about percentage of Toxoplasma gondii antibodies in different age groups (Table 1) is not valid. For this issue, all 500 study cases must be primarily divided into different age groups, then the percentage of seropositivity (IgG, IgM, IgG+IgM) in all initial samples of each group should be calculated and consequently compared and analyzed. There is no scientific reason to indicate possible relation between Toxoplasma infection and contact with animals like caw, buffalo, goats, and dogs, except for cats which are a definitive host of Toxoplasma and shed oocysts. The only way of passing Toxoplasma infection from these animals to humans, is ingestion of undercooked meats or rarely through contact of open wounds with meats contaminated with bradyziotes, but not other types of contact with these animals or their wastes. So, this variable (animal contact) is not wise to be included in the manuscript and is recommended to be removed from all parts of the manuscript. Miss-citation is the case for some Toxoplasma facts in the manuscript. For example, cerebral toxoplasmosis is referred to Kristiah (2009), which is not the right citation; while it was originally reported and discussed by other researchers, i.e. Luft and Remington (1988 1 ) and Luft and Remington (1992 2 ). English writing correction is required in some parts of the manuscript text. 