In this method article, van Tol et al . explain two techniques to determine the activity of potential meiosis-specific promoters. They applied both to test 14 promoter sequences that were selected because they correspond to genes with a meiotic function or with high expression levels in meiocytes. The first technique is based on the use of a GFP reporter system to visually detect the chromocenters and the second involves the negative selection marker VirD5, which interacts with kinetochores and disturbs cell division. Both strategies might provide important tools for meiosis studies. However, I agree with the other reviewers and consider some of the results presented are not completely clear. In the first paragraph of the introduction there are some statements that need to be revised. The authors state “female meiosis takes place in carpels”: it is more accurate to say that it occurs in the ovary. Later in the text “…upon completion of meiosis (male meiocytes) give rise to four haploid pollen cells”: please consider that after telophase II the PMC gives rise to a tetrad of four microspores. After that, each microspore undergoes two subsequent mitotic divisions to produce one vegetative cell and two sperm cells in the mature pollen grain. At the end of the paragraph, “four haploid pollen cells that are physically attached to each other”: please consider that in dicotyledonous male meiocytes cytokinesis occurs when both meiotic divisions are finished. Do the authors refer to the fact that cytokinesis has not yet taken place at the end of meiosis, and hence the physical connection? The interpretation of the “meiocytes” shown in Figure 4 based on a smaller number of chromocentres is not correct, I agree with the other reviewers on this. The authors should consider that the nuclei of most cells exhibit a chromocenter pattern ranging from 4 to 10 (mean ∼8) (Fransz et al ., 2002 1 ; Del Prete et al ., 2014 2 ). The comment in the text about Figure 4C: “confirming that these cells were either haploid, or that chromocenters were in close proximity” should be more specific, as the authors should know whether the images correspond to meiocytes in the first or second meiotic division. In general, there is no appropriate quantification for the results about the GFP patterns displayed by the different promoters. Five plants (according to the caption in Table 2) have been analyzed. Did they present the same phenotype? Some variability would be expected because it is possible that more than one transgene is introduced during the transformation with Agrobacterium , plants are analyzed in heterozygous condition (T1), and transgenes have been introduced in different regions (with a different epigenetic regulation) of the genome. The way of presenting the images in Figure 5 is quite confusing. In addition to taking into account the cell type, images should be grouped considering the genetic backgrounds to which they belong. Regarding the strategy based on VirD5 expression, the “unexpected” result for pSMC1 is actually logical, since SMC1 is indispensable for sister chromatid cohesion, chromosome condensation and DNA repair, not only in meiotic cells (Lam et al., 2005 3 ). Seed quantification in siliques of transformants expressing VirD5 under control of pZYP1A and pSPO11 is necessary. In addition, a cytological analysis would be useful to determine the effect of the presence of VirD5 on meiotic chromosome segregation. As the authors state “interference with meiotic chromosome segregation by VirD5 could still allow for the generation of a small fraction of balanced gametes with 5 chromosomes”. This could easily be confirmed with a simple cytological analysis. Aneuploidies (which are tolerated in Arabidopsis) could be the cause of the different size of the seeds in transformants expressing VirD5 under control of pSPO11 . Was this difference in seed size observed in the case of pZYP1A ? In conclusion, the results of the two strategies are only coincident for only one of the 14 promoters analyzed ( pSPO11-1 ). Using the 1803F-GFP system, the activity of pSPO11-1 resulted in GFP foci in male meiocytes and VirD5 expression under control of this promoter did not affect vegetative development, but produced a reduction in the seed set. In summary, the strategies presented in this paper could be interesting in determining the meiotic activity of the promoters. However, it would be necessary to improve the experimentation associated with more detailed cytological observations, proper analyses and quantitative analyses of the different observed parameters (GFP foci, seed set content) in several plants. Nevertheless, these methodologies should be combined with information about tissue-specific expression levels and functional analyses of the genes tested. 