Patel et al. study the anti-infective properties of Psidium guajava leaf extract, against five different pathogenic bacteria. They use C. elegans as a model system to study the anti-infective efficiency of P. guajava leaf extract formulated from three different extraction methods. Overall this is an exciting paper, validates the traditional use of guava leaves for medicinal purposes and also a possible mechanism. The topic is important, and this paper adds something new to the pharmacology field. The key finding of this study is that the water and hydroalcoholic extracts prepared using microwave-assisted extraction method could successfully attenuate the virulence of different pathogenic bacteria and also exhibit anti-infective property towards C. elegans . I do not have any significant concerns or comments on the manuscript. However, there are some minor comments to improve the manuscript readability and understand the experiments. The manuscript needs a more relevant background to understand the significance of the manuscript. It would be useful to state why the authors have specifically used three extraction methods that are used in the paper over several extraction methods available in the field. Under In vivo assay for anti-infective activity section, the sentence ‘ Pathogenic bacteria were incubated with GLE for 22-24h (48h in case of S. marcescens and S. aureus ) at 37C (28C for S. marcescens ). Following incubation, OD764 of the culture suspension was equalized to that of the DMSO control. ’ is highly confusing so please rewrite with precise details. The sentence ‘ Number of live vs. lead worms was counted daily for five days by putting the plate ’ should be written as ‘ Number of live vs. dead worms was counted daily for five days by putting the plate .’ In Figure 1B, please use consistent symbol shapes for each data set. Graphs in Figure 2 are too small and crowded (it is difficult to appreciate the results), so please consider increasing the size of graphs or using different symbol shapes or think of presenting the data in bar graph format. Please include the data for positive controls [catechin (50 μg/mL) and gentamicin (0.1 μg/mL)] in Figure 1 and 2. Please provide scientific background for using catechin and gentamicin as positive controls. The sentence ‘ At least one concentration of GLE was found to modulate pigment production in all the four pigmented bacteria (Figure 3; Dataset 1: Underlying data). This extract did not inhibit bacterial growth heavily, and hence can be expected to exert lesser selection pressure on susceptible bacterial populations. ’ is difficult to understand so please consider rewriting with clear statements. The results of Figure 3 need more discussion in further details in the context of published literature. 