The research article entitled Molecular Dynamics Simulations of the Temperature Induced Unfolding of Crambin Follow the Arrhenius Equation by Dalby and Shamshir shows how the Molecular Dynamics simulations of crambin unfolding do follow the Arrhenius equation. It is addressing an interesting point as that Molecular Dynamics simulations of protein folding is used to exhibiting an non-Arrhenius behaviour and protein unfolding follow an Arrhenius equation, it is widely accepted. Testing if it is true is a really nice and interesting work. In the article, there is a comprehensive explanation of study design, methods and analysis. The conclusions are well explained and justified on the basis of the results, Furthermore, the authors have made the data fully available, including the scripts to reproduce their work, being able to be revised by the author. That point makes the work more trustable and robust. As a consequence of that, the manuscript is recommended to be approved. However there are some minor changes and comments that the authors may consider to improving the study. The authors stated that "The Arrhenius equation has been used in solid-state chemistry calculations but currently no studies have tested whether it is valid in MD simulations of protein folding". This phrase should be rewritten and clarified, because as it is written, it seems that this is the first time that the Arrhenius equation is used in protein folding simulations and thats not true because its usage is widely established in protein folding. To gain statistical significance, the authors performed 10 replicas, which is a good number. However more replicas changing the force-field, for instance using Amberff99SB-ILDN, would be a good option to gain more statistics and at the same time ensure to avoid the force-field dependence of the results, as in folding/unfolding processes it is very relevant (see for instance Lindorff-Larsen et al ., 2012 ). Simulations with one or two more force-fields, performing 10 replicas for each one, would be appreciated. To explore if the protein is unfolded or not, three different metrics were employed. One of them is the increase of the root mean squared deviation (RMSD) to 0.4nm from the crystal structure. Why 0.4 and not another value? There are some references to that in the literature or it is just an observed trend in the simulations? If it is an observed trend, would change varying the force-field. In Shimada et al. , 2001 , they identified important structural regions of Crambin. Some of them are used by the authors as unfolding indicators, although the aminoacid numbers are not exactly the same. Thus, I wondering if helix 1 (residues 6-18,sequence: SIVARSNFNVCRL) could be also a good indicator of Crambin unfolding with the employed PDB structure, and if it is, if there is a reason to not be used. As the authors stated longer simulations of 40ns or even longer should show a more realistic and picture of Crambin unfolding. It is true that it constitutes a considerable additional computational time, but will probably result in stronger and more sound results. Thus I encourage the authors to do it, at least, in the future.