 Summary . Authors proposed a compartmental SEIR model for the spread of Hepatitis B Virus (HBV). Attention is given to formulated with considerations of different populations of individuals the role of HBV vaccination of new born babies and the treatment of infected individuals. The model analysis mainly concerns the local stability of the disease-free equilibrium (DFE). To the question “Is the rationale for developing the new method (or application) clearly explained?”, my answer is “No” . Indeed, there is some literature on the subject of HBV where age-structured model for the transmission dynamics of HBV is proposed with a focus on intervention options such as vaccination, prevention of HBV perinatal infections and treatment. See for example Djidjou-Demasse et al . (2016) 1 , Zhao et al . (2000) 2 , Zou et al . (2010) 3 4 and references therein. To the question “Is the description of the method technically sound?”, my answer is “No” . Well, authors derived two basic properties of the model dynamics: the existence of a DFE and the local stability. However, the manuscript is suffering from a lack of originality compared to the existing literature on the similar subjects. Moreover, according to the title of the manuscript, “Mathematical model and analysis of hepatitis B virus transmission dynamics”, it was expected to have more analysis materials in the manuscript. To the question “Are the conclusions about the method and its performance adequately supported by the findings presented in the article?”, my answer is “No” . Authors stated that "we use an infectious disease model to understand the impact of HB vaccination and treatment on the dynamics of HBV transmission and prevalence". However, through authors analysis it is far from clear how they highlight the impact of vaccination and treatment on the HBV dynamics. As a general comments, it is quite surprising how the authors tackle the question of vaccination of new babies without structuring the host population by age (or by age groups). As a conclusion I Not Approved this paper for indexing. 