Christian Mulder’s “Pathogenic helminths in the past: Much ado about nothing” reveals some basic problems with the research presented by Piers Mitchell in “Human parasites in the Roman World: health consequences of conquering an empire. Parasitology”. The critique recognizes that the conclusions of the study are overblown and points to errors in methods and theory. I read Mitchell’s work and concur with Mulder. Mitchell does not approach the problem from the perspective of the science of archaeology nor the science of parasitology. Mulder suggests that Mitchell did not control for false parasitism through spread of eggs through the environment. In the science of archaeology, as applied to parasitology, concentrations of parasite eggs per ml or gr are calculated by researchers. These calculations document the distribution of eggs through strata within pits and across ancient village landscapes. This leads to statistical identification of transmission points. When these archaeological egg accumulations are verified as fecal deposits via ancillary pollen and seed analysis, then fecal contamination “hot spots” are defined. Dating of these points can lead to very solid information about emergence and control of geohelminths. This has been demonstrated archaeologically by the references of Fisher and Trigg’s work below. Secondly, the geohelminth life cycle of ascarids seems to be misunderstood by Mitchell who asserted that people could have been infected in Roman baths. I have a paper that has just been published addressing rigor in archaeological parasitology. This highlights the sort of issues such as false parasitism noted by Mulder. I believe that Mulder is spot on with regard to Mitchell’s assertion. I strongly recommend this work for indexing and I would hope that Mulder includes references to the work by Fisher’s team and Trigg’s team. The work by Trigg is in press and can be obtained via Heather Trigg or Steve Mrozowski. Useful References: Fisher et al. (2007) 1 Trigg et al. (2017) 2 Reinhard (2017) 3 