This article provides a comprehensive overview of how to query, download and analyze data from large cancer consortia using R and Bioconductor. Overall, I find it a useful contribution to the field, and it illustrates many of the use cases that will likely be of interest to other researchers. However, as it currently is, I find that it suffers from a few problems that I think that the authors could relatively easily fix. Most importantly, it should be asserted that all the code actually runs. For example, the code in listings 2 and 4 will not run since the functions are capitalized in the wrong way, and the code in listing 7 will not work since the "lastDate" variable is not defined. Also, the session info does not seem to correspond to the same session as was used in the workflow since, for example, the RTCGAToolbox package is not listed as being loaded. Also, as the code is currently provided (in listings, with row numbers), I could not find a way to directly cut and paste it into an R session. Given the amount of code included in this workflow, it would be good if that could be resolved. Since the workflow contains a lot of code, it would be useful to add a bit more comments, explaining what each code chunk, and each part of a chunk, is doing. Moreover, the different code chunks have different formatting styles, and it would be easier to read if this was harmonized. For example, comments are formatted differently, spaces are used inconsistently, and even within a listing (e.g., listing 2) the function calls use different formatting (with or without named arguments). Finally, not all code chunks are in "listings", and it is not clear to me why. Throughout the text, the authors should also make sure to be consistent in terms of capitalization. In several places there are differences in capitalization between the text and the code (e.g., GDCquery_Maf()), or between different places in the text. There are also discrepancies in whether function names are italicized or not. The function GDCquery_clinic is referred to as GDCquery_clinical in the text. Within one section, the AAIC is spelled out as "Array Array", "Array-array" and "array-array". Just after listing 2, it is stated that you can use "rowRanges to gets the range of values in each row" of the SummarizedExperiment object. This should be clarified, since it returns a GRanges object describing the features in the rows. The "p-value corrected FDR" should also be replaced by e.g. "corrected (or adjusted) p-value" or "FDR". Bioconductor should be capitalized. The "broadinstitute website" should be changed to "Broad Institute website" and include a link. The "nce" is not defined as far as I could see, and the sentence just before the "Retrieving known interactions" seems unfinished. It is not clear to me how the information that "There are 3,941 unique interactions between the 2,901 differentially expressed genes" was obtained, since the function in the code chunk above is not run until later. It would be easier to get an overview of the text of the headers were more consistent. For example, the gene regulatory network section has subheaders that are larger than the main section header. Finally, as mentioned by one of the other reviewers, the paper would benefit from modifications to the text in order to make it more readable. There are many grammatical errors, long and complicated sentences, and sentences that are unfinished and thus difficult to understand. I believe that if the authors can make sure that all the code in the workflow runs as expected, and the text and code is clarified and harmonized throughout the manuscript, this can be a very valuable addition to the literature.