Summary of the Manuscript: Genome assemblies of ten strains of Vibrio cholerae were generated from public sequence data. The assembled contigs were analyzed for gene content, insertion sequence content, SNPs content, etc. Summary of the Review: This reviewer is uncertain whether this manuscript contains publishable information. The experiment seems to be a repeat of a previously published experiment, using the same data exclusively. This experiment may have been designed as a test of the reproducibility of that previous study, but it is not presented as such. The Results section lists several ways that this study confirms findings in several previous publications but it leaves unclear what is novel. The Conclusions section of this study focuses on a different topic that was hardly addressed by the study: whether bioinformatics can be applied to genomic sequence, particularly in Uganda. Major Revision: The conclusions as stated are not supported by the data. Please refer to the conclusions section of the Abstract as well as the entire Conclusions section of the manuscript. These sections present a finding that researchers, particularly researchers in Uganda, can use bioinformatics to study cholera. If that truly was the research question, then the manuscript needs a new title and the report should be presented as a case study, N=1. In fact, the focus of the work seems to be cholera. If so, then the conclusions must pertain to cholera. If this was regionally the first study of its kind, then a sentence to that effect could be warranted in the Discussion section. This manuscript needs to clarify whether this was a re-analysis of a previously published whole-genome sequencing project. The relationship to that previous study is easy to miss. Several sections are misleading in this regard. The Title refers to “Whole-genome sequence analysis” which usually includes sequencing. The Abstract refers to “The 10 sequenced strains” rather than “Ten previously-sequenced strains.” The Introduction says, “sequencing remains a less desirable option for most scientists in Uganda”, without pointing out that no sequencing was performed for this study. The Methods section says, “the whole-genome sequencing data was deposited in NCBI’s SRA with accession SRP136117” but that was the data of Bwire 2018; as a previously published fact, the deposition is not appropriate for this manuscript to report. The manuscript must distinguish its novel findings from confirmations of previously published findings. This issue is addressed broadly in the Discussion section but not specifically in the Results. For example, the Results section says, “… all the 10 sequenced strains were found to carry virulence-associated genes. These included MakA, ctxA, ctxB, carA, carB, trpB, clpB, ace, toxR, zot, rtxA, ompW, ompR, gmhA, fur, hlyA, and rstR.” No prior work is cited there. The text fails to point out that the Bwire 2018 paper already reported that “All 63 isolates tested positive for ompW, toxR, and ctxA …” based on similar analysis of the very same sequencing reads. The manuscript needs to explain why the re-analysis is worthy of publication. The Bwire 2018 paper already reported that the ten samples were Illumina-sequenced and assembled with the SPAdes software. The authors of that study posted ten assemblies at NCBI under BioProject PRJNA439310 and analyzed them in their publication. This manuscript presents ten assemblies of the same data using Unicycler (which uses SPAdes). Are the new assemblies different? Did the re-analysis highlight any flaws or shortcomings of the previous study? Did the re-analysis reveal anything new? Minor Revision: In the Discussion, this study is self-described as a “cross-sectional study” which implies a look across samples from one timepoint. However, this study looked at three outbreaks over two years. Thus there was opportunity to include longitudinal and geo-spacial population analysis. This opportunity should be addressed in discussion, if possible. I presume the reads from the ten samples were assembled separately, but this is not stated in the Methods and not illustrated in Figure1 . The phrase in the Abstract, “… in the strains”, should be “… in 10 strains isolated in Uganda” or similar. Basically, you cannot refer to “the” strains before saying which strains. Within the Abstract, the background says one goal was to describe phylogeny by SNP-analysis but the abstract has no further mention of this. Either omit this from the background or include something about it in the results of the abstract. The inline citations use notation like “Bwire 2018” but the references are numbered and listed in order of citation. This makes it hard to find the reference for a citation. Could the authors adopt one convention or the other? 