Achinko and colleagues utilize publicly available data to identify important genetic pathways that may drive Ebola virus and could be used as targets for intervention. However, the analysis as presented raises some concerns that the authors should address and clarify. Background: The introduction needs to emphasize the potential relationship between LCK and EBOV. Many of these opening paragraphs appear to be making the case and speculating on future research instead of setting up why we think that LCK should even be considered. The main aim of the paper is embedded in the results section and should be moved to the introductory paragraphs. The link between glycoprotens and LCK and Ebola virus is also not explained, which is the motivation of the analysis. Methods: The authors use data from the publicly available GEO website and they aim to look for an association between the viral envelope gylcoprotein and post-signaling response in cells. They suggest that they are restricting their analysis to EBOV--but the list of profiles ranges from hepatitis C to measles to dengue viral infections. Did you filter out samples from viruses not related to EBOV? If you are only focusing on EBOV then a search of geo profiles would return only 12 samples (however 34 samples are included in this research study). This discrepancy confuses the manuscript - what are we looking at? What does a difference in Rmean samples mean given that we are looking at a full spectrum of genes? It is also not clear how you can evaluate the differences in gene expression at the cellular level when you have different tissues and thus heterogenous cell composition. And the genes you list range from 8,000 to 154,000--which when merged together are likely to create a bias. How do you account for this heterogeneity and bias from different studies and different depths of coverage and cell types, and viruses? The authors also refer to EBOV as a chronic viral infection. Many of us consider it an acute infection as well. Is the focus of this manuscript on samples from people who survive EBOV and then persist with infection? Or on those with acute infection? And how does that change the conclusions of the paper and the title when you are considering intervention? For methods of the principal components--what is this biplot telling us - its very difficult to interpret, and more confounded by the 34 samples vs. 12 samples. Additional clarifications on the background, methods, type I and type II mRNA, importance and relevance of the genes identified and LCK are all critical. Some of these can be clarified by a figure that outlines the immunologic pathway in primates and what is actually known vs what is hypothesized, and then more details in the text explaining the logic. We appreciate the knowledge on mice, but how does this translate to humans and why is it relevant? These issues raise concerns about using this type of data without careful consideration for issues of heterogeneity and bias. Please address these issues. 