The article proposes usage of a recursive form of Louvain method while including the PageRank of nodes to make graph partitions or detect biological 'modules' which are then evaluated through the DREAM Challenge evaluation tool PASCAL to determine how many of the identified modules were significant w.r.t. GWAS experiments conducted by the DREAM Challenge organisers. The paper has been well written and all the technical details have been elaborated quite well by the authors, thereby suggesting that the method is reproducible and can be extended as per the suggestion of the authors to have a consensus disease module identification technique. The authors provide a good introduction to Louvain method explaining its non-deterministic nature and limitations such as resolution limit for which it needs to be used in a recursive fashion to detection modules of length k ([3,100]). Moreover, they explain well how PageRank is used along with the Louvain method. The only issue that I have is with the experiment section where the authors perform an additional 100 new runs and claim that they can obtain theoretically 81 significant modules. This is not correct way of evaluation as the authors are using the test set and tuning their hyper-parameters on the test set. In order to have a generic model, the authors can tune their model parameters on the training set and use the same for each test set network rather than tuning the results on test set. The authors do indicate this when they say that in future work they will focus on developing a module 'score' to predict if a module is significant or not. A major issue here is the non-deterministic nature of Louvain method which will result in different partitions every time the code is run. Hence the idea of having a 'consensus between restarts' is also interesting. Finally, it would have been better if the authors add information about the biological content of the modules that they have discovered and for which GWAS traits were the modules enriched in a given population. That analysis would complete the paper from a biological standpoint also. 