The current manuscript by P.C. Dinas et al., describes the association of fat mass profile with the mRNA levels of natriuretic peptide receptor-A (NPRA) in the subcutaneous adipose tissues (SAT) of medication-free healthy individuals. The major goal of the present study was to determine the association of NPRA mRNA in SAT with fat mass (FM), fat-free mass (FFM), body mass index (BMI), and arterial blood pressure in 32 volunteers with average age of 36 years. The subcutaneous adipose tissues biopsy was done by surgical procedures. The authors report that NPRA mRNA was negatively associated with % FM as well as BMI. Based on the present findings, the authors suggest that NPRA signaling mechanism might play a critical role in the control of fat mass accumulation. The results of the current study are interesting and critical in understanding the versatility of the NPRA signaling mechanisms in the health and disease; however, there are some concerns, which need to be considered to improve the contents of this manuscript. The present study establishes a link between NPRA mRNA, % FM, and BMI. The results indicate that atrial and brain natriuretic peptides (ANP, BNP) and their cognate receptor NPRA might play a vital role in lipolysis. Thus, it could have been a logical extension to determine the hormone-sensitive lipases. Although, ANP and BNP have been shown to act as the lipolytic hormones and also to affect energy use and metabolism in adipocytes, thus their actions seem to be associated with hormonal stimulation of lipases (Sengenes et al., 2003 1 ; Lafontan et al., 2008 2 ). It would be helpful that these issues and limitation might be discussed in the manuscript. The ethnicity of the Greek subjects under the study should be indicated and if there is any limitation that could be mentioned. The study is based on the small number of subjects and the limitations might also be indicated. The cGMP- dependent protein kinase 1 (CGK1) phosphorylates perilipin-1, a hormonal-regulated lipase that initiates lipolysis (Sengenes et al., 2003; Lafontan et al., 2005 3 ). Nonetheless, it has been suggested that the potent lipolytic function of ANP and BNP seems to be restricted to primates (Sengenes et al., 2002 4 ; Engeli et al., 2012 5 ). Intriguing was the finding that a lower concentrations of ANP and BNP seem to be associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and metabolic consequences, thereby, ANP-BNP/NPRA/cGMP axis might regulate fat oxidation to prevent obesity and glucose intolerance (Wang et al., 2004 6 ; Wang et al., 2007 7 ; Mitsuishi et al., 2008 8 ; Miyashita et al., 2009 9 ). These paradigms and issues of the ANP/NPRA/cGMP signaling could be discussed. Interestingly, ANP-BNP/NPRA signaling axis has been shown to induce a browning of white adipocytes in humans, which seems to be physiologically significant (Enerback, 2010 10 ; Collins et al., 2014 11 ; Liu et al., 2018 12 ). A brief discussion on this aspect of ANP/NPRA signaling mechanisms might be helpful. The previous findings have suggested that NPRA acts as a determinant of insulin sensitivity; however, the upregulation of natriuretic peptide receptor-C (NPRC) decreases the glucose tolerance in obase subjects, which seems to repress ANP-BNP/NPRA signaling axis and thereby the lipolytic effects of ANP was completely rescued in Npr3 (coding for NPRC) gene-knockout mice (Bordicchia et al., 2012 13 ). The significance of these previous findings and the relationship to the current work could be discussed in the current manuscript. The conclusions of the present study are based on the findings in male gender. The limitations on the inclusion of female gender should be mentioned. I have read and reviewed the manuscript and believe that I have the expertise to evaluate and state that the current work is of an acceptable scientific quality. Indeed, there are some concerns in the manuscript, which are summarized above. 