This study by Amin et al . accessed the effects of memantine (NMDA receptor blocker marketed as an Alzheimer’s disease medication) on hippocampal histology and functions in diabetes model rats. The authors presented interesting data. Both of their functional and histological results showed severe impairment in pathological groups, and memantine partially alleviated these impairments in some cases. However, in the non-diabetic group treated with memantine, impairments similar to the pathological groups were observed. Thus, the potential benefit by memantine was only evident in diabetic conditions. While there are interesting observations in the study, it also raises concerns regarding the experiment design and data interpretation. Major concerns: While the authors claimed memantine effectively improved nearly all quantitative test scores in both type I and type II diabetes groups, some improvement data upon the type I group were actually lacking. The authors only compared the type I diabetic rats treated with insulin to type I diabetic rats treated with both insulin and memantine, but did not compare untreated type I diabetic rats to memantine treated type I diabetic rats. Thus, based on the presented data, it is very difficult to access the effects of memantine alone on type I biabetic hippocampal function and histology. While the paper concludes that memantine significantly improved the type I diabetic pathology, the data presented showed only very marginal improvements by memantine on top of insulin (especially Figure 2, 4, 5). These differences were statistically significant only because of the extremely small standard deviations in the data. Minor concerns: Some wordings describing effects need to be changed. Specifically, the last paragraph of page 7 says “Administration of memantine to the non-diabetic group had less beneficial effects…” In fact, that treatment severely impaired all functions tested, instead of just being “less beneficial”. The SDs in many of the graphs are very small. It would be a lot more informative if statistical significance levels of p0.01 and p0.001 were included in addition to the mere p0.05. This would help the readers to appreciate the statistical strength of the conclusions. 