This article describes an experiment performed to characterize the background signals in a particular combination of three commercially available research tools: a protein macroarray on PVDF membranes used in conjunction with two antibodies used for detection. As no first antibody or serum was used in this experiment, all the signals could be attributed to unwanted, unspecific reactivity of the detection antibody combination used. A list of genes was generated from these signals that is proposed as a reference database of for other researchers. In general, the approach is scientifically sound and feasible. Background reactivities may limit antibody-based assays and need to be accounted for. So performing a control experiment without serum or first antibody on a protein array and with just the detection antibodies makes perfectly sense to control for unspecific binding. The title of the paper is appropriate, the abstract gives enough information on the setting. The background information about the antibodies is described in enough detail. However, the narrow focus of the paper and a number of technical issues limit the quality of the paper and its utility for the readership. Major issues The experiment was performed only once. Consequently, the reliability of the results will be limited. Only one specific combination of a protein macroarray with two consecutive detection antibodies was analyzed. It remains unclear, whether the results obtained would apply to other lots of the antibodies or whether they are specific for a certain preparation, limiting the benefit of this protein list as a reference database and also limiting the replication of results by other groups. The authors suggest that their results may also apply to other protein array systems. This claim needs substantiation, especially in the case of E.coli proteins derived from high-throughput cloning that do not show authentic posttranslational modification patterns and often contain extra amino acid sequences that may cause unspecific binding. The paper discusses cross-reactivity with human Ig genes. A sequence analysis of the other cross-reactive proteins with IgY and rabbit Ig sequences may provide evidence for the mechanisms behind this phenomenon, expanding scope and depth of this so far rather descriptive study. Minor issues Antibody concentrations should be given explicitly, e.g. as g/ml rather than as dilutions. The procedure of signal quantification and scoring needs to be described in more detail. The description states "Positive signals were localized according to the manufacturer’s protocol" - what exactly was done to identify positive signals? The pictures provided show varying background intensities as well as a number of very dark spots that do not appear in the analysis. Which algorithm was used to include or exclude signals? How were the different signal intensities attributed to the score values 1, 2 and 3? It would be interesting to know why this specific combination of two detection antibodies was used here: a polyclonal anti-chicken IgY antibody produced in rabbit and then a polyclonal goat anti-rabbit IgG antibody conjugated with alkaline phosphatase. Was there no conjugated anti-chicken antibody available? Every additional antibody will add to the number of unspecific reactions, so using just one instead of two may help reduce background. The abstract does not provide a conclusion on whether the antibodies should be used in a particular setting (see Article Guidelines For Antibody Validation Articles). 