 General Comments Modern genomics, especially with the emergence of high-throughput next-generation sequencing, is generating data at such a rapid rate that new tools for organizing, visualizing, sharing, and integrating heterogeneous data in the context of scientific information are needed for scientists to efficiently use these published data. The Chaussabel group has recently developed an interactive data browsing and visualization web application, the Gene Expression Browser (GXB), to address this problem. In this data note, Dr. Rinchai et al. report a compendium of ninety-six curated human monocyte transcriptome datasets from GEO spanning a broad range of diseases, cell types, and experiments. These datasets were then uploaded to the Gene Expression Browser for exploratory data analysis and dataset validation. The Gene Expression Browser should prove very useful for investigating large datasets; however, I have several questions and comments regarding the curated data itself: Title: The novel aspect and apparent emphasis of this data note is using the Gene Expression Browser to more easily explore the curated ninety-six datasets. But the current title emphasizes the key information on fostering the knowledge discovery. Please consider rephrasing it by focusing on the monocyte datasets and web application. Introduction: As the Gene Expression Browser has been described in detail previously, the emphasis of this data note should be on the curated data. It would be helpful to discuss the motivation for creating this particular compendium of monocyte transcriptome datasets as well as the intended use of the curated data given the breadth and heterogeneity of diseases, cell types, and experiments that it includes. Methods: 1. Please elaborate more specifically on how the datasets were curated. What were the eligibility criteria for inclusion into the compendium? 2. The table summarizing the published data can difficult to read due to its landscape orientation. Consider rotating the table from a landscape orientation to a portrait orientation. 3. In the right pie chart of Figure 2, there are twelve datasets studying primary monocytes; however, datasets classified as in vitro stimulation, infection, and monocyte subsets may also contain primary monocytes. Better categorization is needed. 4. Data validation is critical for verifying that a dataset is acceptable for use. The authors mention performing dataset validation but do not report the related results or summary of their validation. On page 9, the process of assessing contamination by other leukocyte populations using surface markers should be done carefully as CD14 + monocytes do share surface marker CD4. 5. In Fig. 3, it is unclear whether the orange bar plot is referring to CD4 + T cells or CD4 + cells in general. They are different cell types.