 Overview The paper presents: 1. a couple of improvements over the method in the authors' previous 2015 paper on multiplexed modularity, and 2. the application of this improved method to the Disease Module Identification DREAM challenge. Method The paper adequately describes the incremental improvement of the general method over the previous paper regarding the following. 1. The algorithm randomly selects one of the moves improving the modularity at every stage. I assume this helps the method to arrive at different local minima for each run, thereby improving its performance on the nonlinear modularity surface. 2. The incorporation of edge and graph weights into the definition of modularity. Both of these points are well justified, and presented in adequate detail. The only minor detail that is missing is that Equation 1 does not include the resolution parameter. Results and Performance Evaluation The improvement in performance due to randomization is presented in Figure 1, while Figure 4 presents evidence of improvement due to the graph (layer) weights. The improvement due to edge weights is not presented, but it logically follows that any network model wherein edges with larger weights are likely to form within modules will show improved performance under a weighted definition of modularity. The authors did not have control over the DREAM challenge evaluation, but a reader might have a few questions regarding the performance evaluation. For example, if the judging criterion is the number of significantly GWAS associated modules, does the score improve by dividing one large disease associated module into two, if they both are still significant? Presentaion Other than the missing resolution parameter, the method is adequately presented. There were a few minor issues with language. For example: 1. The second paragraph of the abstract should end with "the number of trait and disease communit ies detected." 2. While describing the method of simulating the missing data, another form of the word should be used instead of " ... we randomly withdrawn vertices of each layer ..." The authors provide source code for both the latest version, and also the version that was used for the DREAM challenge. It would be helpful if the authors also provide, if those are readily available, the scripts that were used to run the DREAM and simulated data for the results presented. This will help answer minor questions regarding details like filtering etc. Conclusion and suggestions I think the method described by the paper is scientifically valid and its presentation is adequate, other than the minor issues raised above. Some of the important questions that may be pursued further are related to the selection of the graph weights. Currently, the weights are selected arbitrarily using the relative performance of the individual networks on predicting the disease modules. Could there be a more systematic manner of weight selection based on both the congruency with what's known of the true modules and the relative redundancy in the various layers? 