The manuscript introduces a new R package, MXM, that offers a variety of feature selection algorithms in regression models. The new package presents relevant contribution to the toolbox of feature selection algorithms by covering more types of target variables than most existing packages, accommodating data with small or big sample sizes, and providing additional functionalities and utility features. The manuscript also demonstrates the usage of several functions in the package by analyzing real data. Regarding the presentation of the manuscript, I share the same concern with reviewer Thodoris that the acronyms in the paper come with poor explanation. Although several of the acronyms are explained in Table 4 and Table 6, most of appearances of these acronyms have no reference to these tables or explanations. This makes the paper unnecessarily hard to read. Secondly, I think the demonstration of the usage of the package could be more informative with more interpretations. For example, how can we interpret the p-values, adjusted R-squares, and deviance in the results of the model fittings? High level descriptions of the algorithms behind the demonstrated functions could also help the reader better understand the results. Below are comments to specific places in the manuscript: The 3rd paragraph in Introduction mentions that statistical tests (likelihood ratio, Wald, permutation based) can be plugged into the feature selection algorithms that work with small sample sized data. The aforementioned tests traditionally rely on large sample theory. I wonder what adjustments are needed to accommodate small sample sizes? Tables 1, 2, and Figure 1 shows statistics of target variable types supported by a number of R packages. What algorithm was used to identify the types of target variables accepted by an R package? What does “multiple datasets” mean as in “Only 2 (1.08%) R packages teat the case of FS with multiple datasets ...” (last sentence of Paragraph 1 on Page 5)? I find the last paragraph on Page 5 particularly uneasy to read due to the acronyms used without explanation. Some of these are later explained in Table 6 while a couple are not (e.g., MMHC). I think it would be helpful to make a comprehensive table explaining the algorithm acronyms used in this paper, and refer to the table here. In the last paragraph on Page 5, there are multiple places that compare algorithms in terms of “(predictive) performance”. I think it would be more informative to clarify what performance metrics we are looking at. In Paragraph 5 on Page 6, the manuscript states that “SES ... returns multiple (statistically equivalent) sets of predictor variables ...”. What does statistically equivalent mean? What does the package name, MXM, stand for? The second last paragraph on Page 6 is a bit confusing to me. The paragraph starts with pointing out computational efficiency as a disadvantage of MXM. However, this is followed by explaining why gOMP is efficient, and pointing out that SES and MMPC scales better and run faster than LASSO package. These seem like advantages in computational efficiency. In Paragraph 2 of “FS-related functions” section: for MMPC and SES, storing the results from one run and passing it to subsequent runs can lead to significant computational savings. Are there savings because the trained models serve as good starting points in the subsequent runs? On Page 9 in the output of MXM::fbed.reg, there are p-values associated with each selected variable. How can we interpret these p-values? It seems that these p-values are not adjusted for the extra degrees of freedom from feature selection. Below are some minor suggestions/typo fixes: In Abstract – “The R package MXM is such an example, which offers ...”: It’s unclear to me what “such an example” refers to. It’s clearer to state “The R package MXM offers ...” directly. Second paragraph in Introduction: “For example, packages that accept few or specific types of target variables.” → “For example, some packages accept few or specific types of target variables.” (make it a complete sentence.) In “MXM versus other R packages” section: “... can treat at least one type of target variable, ...” → “... can treat at least k types of target variables, for k = 1, 2, ..., 8, ...” In the last paragraph on Page 5, does “BN” refer to Bayesian network (which also appears in the same paragraph)? In Paragraph 5 on Page 6 – “... making it one one of the few FS algorithms ...”: remove the extra “one”. In Paragraph 6 on Page6 – “MXM is using an efficient memory handling R package.”: please cite the package. Last Paragraph on Page 7: “generalised” → “generalized” to be consistent with other places in the paper. First paragraph in Section “Use cases”: the argument “test” refers to the type of regression model to be used. Why not name the argument something like “model type”? Some of the citations are not easily distinguishable from footnotes. e.g., citation 21 for Rfast on Page 8 and footnote 7 are both superscripts. Paragraph 2 on Page 11: “gOMP on the other has ...” → “gOMP on the other hand ...”. First paragraph on Page 12 – “YouTube video streaming applications applications”: duplicate “applications”. 