There is an urgent public health need to understand HIV/AIDS disease transmission globally especially in areas where war and conflict continues and resources to address communicable diseases are limited. This paper is the first to my knowledge to shed light on a growing HIV epidemic especially in correctional facilities in different prisons and jails in Pakistan. The study design provides opportunities for future research to understand HIV/AIDS transmission in correctional facilities. However, I would have much appreciated more literature on the characteristics of offenders prior to incarceration. The findings while not generalizable were instrumental in helping readers understand high-risk behaviors among people who inject drugs and people who engage in same-sex behaviors. Perhaps, the next step of this study might be to conduct a qualitative study exploring the lived experience of inmates living with HIV/AIDS in remote correctional settings in Pakistan The conclusion points researchers in the right direction. We have a limited understanding of HIV prevalence and HIV risk-taking behaviors of offenders in Pakistan and other areas. We need to do more in understanding HIV prevalence in correctional settings, but also discuss opportunities for prevention intervention programs. Perhaps, a section on implications or future research in the conclusion section should be included. Here are potential articles to consider for this section: Scott, D. P., Harzke, A. J., Mizwa, M. B., Pugh, M., Ross, M. - Evaluation of an HIV peer education program in Texas prisons 1 . Solomon, L., Montague, B. T., Beckwith, C. G., Baillargeon, J., Costa, M., Dumont, D.,Rich, J. D. - Survey finds that many prisons and jails have room to improve HIV testing and coordination of postrelease treatment 2 . Valera, P., Chang, Y., Lian, Z. - HIV risk inside US prisons: A systematic review of risk reduction interventions conducted in US prisons 3 . Lastly, the manuscript would greatly benefit from proof-reading and addressing grammatical errors throughout the article. 