 General comments This is an observational study not reported according to the STROBE criteria and lacks a flow-chart explaining inclusion and exclusion criteria. No pre-specified end-point is provided other than “changes in the endometrium and ovaries of female breast cancer patients”. An end-point has to be clearly defined and measurable. The sample size is difficult to follow including the prevalence of endometrial thickness but not any pre-specified hypothesis on change of thickness in relation to TAM therapy. The sample size calculations seems to be based on the difference between pre- and postmenopausal patients, not any effect by TAM. Abdominal ultrasound for measuring endometrial thickness is not state-of the-art which makes it difficult to compare the results to previous publications. If abdominal ultrasound is the method of choice in Iraq it would have been interesting to add data on its performance in relation to transvaginal assessments. The availability of abdominal ultrasound for BC patients is not presented nor is there any data on any additional interventions caused by this ambitious ultrasound program. Are all BC patients on TAM offered abdominal ultrasound in Iraq? And if not, is there enough data from this study to recommend/abstain it as a routine surveillance. Specific questions to be addressed when assessing original research papers Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? No, it does not adhere to the guidelines of presenting observational studies (see p1-3) and the reference list is outdated (far too old publications). Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? See p 1-3 Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? I have not found any report on abdominal US so this makes it difficult to replicate the study, albeit the method might be appropriate if data on its accuracy compared to transvaginal US could be provided – either as a reference or by own data. If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? See sample size comments, otherwise I cant assess it. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? OK Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? The conclusion is sound but should clearly state that intense surveillance of ET by US doesnt seem to prevent any gynaecological disorders and thus intensive follow-up schemes has no place as a clinical routine. 