The authors carefully reviewed the epidemiology of tics and Tourette syndrome and explained the need for more sensitive, broadly applicable screening tools. To address this need, they have developed a 10-minute video that shows nearly 100 tic examples and then asks a brief screening questionnaire. The introductory section could benefit from some reference to the Avon study, which is considered landmark, as it was the only prospective, population-based study on prevalence of chronic tic disorders in a birth cohort (Scharf JM et al, . 2012). The video has already been improved with input from the first round of reviewers. In order to avoid overwhelming or confusing the layperson, non-tic hyperkinetic disorders are appropriately left out. The emphasis was appropriately on improving sensitivity, so that potential tic disorders can be identified and further screened by a researcher or clinician. However, there still was one instance where the video appears to have sacrificed sensitivity and waded into murky waters. This is where examples of repetitive behaviors that are not tics (because they are compulsions) were given. Repetitive hand washing was a great example. However repeating a movement a certain number of times “because it feels right” may not be an appropriate example. Compulsions are performed to relieve anxiety, however compulsive tics are performed in order to relieve an urge (which can include evening out or repetition.) There is still equipoise about how to classify compulsive tics, therefore; in order to maintain sensitivity of the instrument, this clip might best be modified to use a more classic example of a compulsion (i.e., checking that the lights are off or the door is locked, even though you’ve just checked.) There are a couple of concerns about the diagnostic utility of the questionnaire at the end of the video. Question #10 on the screening interview at the end of the video (“Have you ever done things over and over like:)”) gave 2 apt examples (“obscene gestures” and “patting yourself”) but there rest are habits that are probably not specific enough for tic disorders. These include “twisting your hair,” “scratching your foot inside your shoe” or “adjusting your clothes.” Unless there is data to support these behaviors as being specific to tic disorders, the examples in this question might be appropriately replaced with behaviors that are more specific to tic disorders. Examples might include, “repeating words or phrases,” “flicking your fingers” and “poking or hitting yourself.” Another concern is that the questionnaire appears to be designed according to DSM-IV criteria, likely because the project was started before the DSM-V criteria for TS were finalized in 2013 (American Psychiatric Association, 2013 http://dsm.psychiatryonline.org/doi/10.1176/appi.books.9780890425596.dsm01). DSM-V removed the requirement that one year of tics be present consecutively during childhood (a total of one year must be present, but it does not need to be continuous, i.e. it can be separated over time). DSM-V also removed a 3-month tic free period as exclusion for the diagnosis of TS. This video appears to specifically ask about the 3-month tic free period. If it is going to be used to screen according to current DSM-V criteria, then this question should be removed. The discussion aptly points out how poorly specific a brief interview with children can be for diagnosis of tics (with 37.5% being missed even after 2 hours of observation by an expert.) The discussion could be improved in two ways. First, it could point out an additional potential value of this video beyond screening the public for tics. Along these lines, it could be useful in training researchers and even their staff to conduct broad scale assessments of tics. For example, the Monroe County study at the University of Rochester (Kurlan R et al,. 2001), trained technicians using 25 different video examples of tics before they went on to conduct a total of 1596 interviews of school children. They found a much higher prevalence of chronic tics, TS, and tics NOS than other epidemiological studies using less sensitive methods have (18.5 % of children had at least some form of tic, and 7% were found to have TS). This is much higher than other epidemiological research, but used a more sensitive (yet less specific instrument). A second improvement to the discussion would be, following the limitations section, a conclusion that proposes next steps. For example, a validation study could be proposed. Additionally, further improvements to the instrument could be considered (in the future) to create educational tools aimed at improving diagnostic sensitivity of clinicians (and researchers) and raising awareness about tics in the general population (particularly minorities that are hard to reach, and may be under-diagnosed.) References 1. Scharf JM, Miller LL, Mathews CA, Ben-Shlomo Y: Prevalence of Tourette syndrome and chronic tics in the population-based Avon longitudinal study of parents and children cohort. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry . 2012; 51 (2): 192-201.e5 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. American Psychiatric Association: Neurodevelopmental Disorders. 2013. Publisher Full Text 3. Kurlan R, McDermott MP, Deeley C, Como PG, et al.: Prevalence of tics in schoolchildren and association with placement in special education. Neurology . 2001; 57 (8): 1383-8 PubMed Abstract Competing Interests: In the past 12 months; I have received speaking and/or consulting fees from Teva, Lundbeck, and the Tourette Association of America (TAA). I have received Center of Excellence program funding from the TAA and research support from the Arizona Alzheimer's Consortium, Adamas, Axovant, Intec, Neurocrine, Teva, US World Meds, Kyowa, Michael J Fox Foundation, and the NIH. The TAA provides education to a broad audience, and advocacy for individuals impacted by Tourette syndrome. Neurocrine and Teva are developing tic-suppressing treatments for Tourette syndrome. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Shprecher DR. Reviewer Report For: VISIT-TS: A multimedia tool for population studies on tic disorders [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1518 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10427.r16867 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1518/v2#referee-response-16867 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 01 Nov 2016 Kevin J Black , Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, USA 01 Nov 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I am very appreciative of Dr. Shprecher's thoughtful comments. We envisioned VISIT-TS being used primarily for screening, a setting in which sensitivity was more of a concern than ... Continue reading I am very appreciative of Dr. Shprecher's thoughtful comments. We envisioned VISIT-TS being used primarily for screening, a setting in which sensitivity was more of a concern than specificity, so we were trying to be inclusive. Still, in retrospect, I think overall I agree with the suggestions on compulsions and other repetitive behaviors. The comment about DSM-IV-TR is correct, but we chose to leave in the 3 questions about timing ("many times a day most days," "kept happening over a period of a year or more," and no 3-month period without tics). We argue that the 3-month question can simply be ignored for DSM-5, and my colleagues and I (at least) are still interested in DSM-IV-TR diagnoses. Nevertheless, to best fit DSM-5, which removed the "many times a day ... nearly every day" requirement, we probably should add a question like, "Was your first tic at least one year before your most recent tic?" Similarly, we may consider changing the age of onset question to ask for a(n approximate) age rather than a dichotomous yes or no regarding before age 18. My read of the science is that the age limit should probably be around age 21-25, and the TSSG criteria required age 21 rather than 18 [1]. The comments on the introduction and discussion are also helpful. Again, thanks. [1] The Tourette Syndrome Classification Study Group. Definitions and classification of tic disorders. Arch Neurol . 1993 Oct. 50(10):1013-6. [Medline] . I am very appreciative of Dr. Shprecher's thoughtful comments. We envisioned VISIT-TS being used primarily for screening, a setting in which sensitivity was more of a concern than specificity, so we were trying to be inclusive. Still, in retrospect, I think overall I agree with the suggestions on compulsions and other repetitive behaviors. The comment about DSM-IV-TR is correct, but we chose to leave in the 3 questions about timing ("many times a day most days," "kept happening over a period of a year or more," and no 3-month period without tics). We argue that the 3-month question can simply be ignored for DSM-5, and my colleagues and I (at least) are still interested in DSM-IV-TR diagnoses. Nevertheless, to best fit DSM-5, which removed the "many times a day ... nearly every day" requirement, we probably should add a question like, "Was your first tic at least one year before your most recent tic?" Similarly, we may consider changing the age of onset question to ask for a(n approximate) age rather than a dichotomous yes or no regarding before age 18. My read of the science is that the age limit should probably be around age 21-25, and the TSSG criteria required age 21 rather than 18 [1]. The comments on the introduction and discussion are also helpful. Again, thanks. [1] The Tourette Syndrome Classification Study Group. Definitions and classification of tic disorders. Arch Neurol . 1993 Oct. 50(10):1013-6. [Medline] . Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 01 Nov 2016 Kevin J Black , Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, USA 01 Nov 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I am very appreciative of Dr. Shprecher's thoughtful comments. We envisioned VISIT-TS being used primarily for screening, a setting in which sensitivity was more of a concern than ... Continue reading I am very appreciative of Dr. Shprecher's thoughtful comments. We envisioned VISIT-TS being used primarily for screening, a setting in which sensitivity was more of a concern than specificity, so we were trying to be inclusive. Still, in retrospect, I think overall I agree with the suggestions on compulsions and other repetitive behaviors. The comment about DSM-IV-TR is correct, but we chose to leave in the 3 questions about timing ("many times a day most days," "kept happening over a period of a year or more," and no 3-month period without tics). We argue that the 3-month question can simply be ignored for DSM-5, and my colleagues and I (at least) are still interested in DSM-IV-TR diagnoses. Nevertheless, to best fit DSM-5, which removed the "many times a day ... nearly every day" requirement, we probably should add a question like, "Was your first tic at least one year before your most recent tic?" Similarly, we may consider changing the age of onset question to ask for a(n approximate) age rather than a dichotomous yes or no regarding before age 18. My read of the science is that the age limit should probably be around age 21-25, and the TSSG criteria required age 21 rather than 18 [1]. The comments on the introduction and discussion are also helpful. Again, thanks. [1] The Tourette Syndrome Classification Study Group. Definitions and classification of tic disorders. Arch Neurol . 1993 Oct. 50(10):1013-6. [Medline] . I am very appreciative of Dr. Shprecher's thoughtful comments. We envisioned VISIT-TS being used primarily for screening, a setting in which sensitivity was more of a concern than specificity, so we were trying to be inclusive. Still, in retrospect, I think overall I agree with the suggestions on compulsions and other repetitive behaviors. The comment about DSM-IV-TR is correct, but we chose to leave in the 3 questions about timing ("many times a day most days," "kept happening over a period of a year or more," and no 3-month period without tics). We argue that the 3-month question can simply be ignored for DSM-5, and my colleagues and I (at least) are still interested in DSM-IV-TR diagnoses. Nevertheless, to best fit DSM-5, which removed the "many times a day ... nearly every day" requirement, we probably should add a question like, "Was your first tic at least one year before your most recent tic?" Similarly, we may consider changing the age of onset question to ask for a(n approximate) age rather than a dichotomous yes or no regarding before age 18. My read of the science is that the age limit should probably be around age 21-25, and the TSSG criteria required age 21 rather than 18 [1]. The comments on the introduction and discussion are also helpful. Again, thanks. [1] The Tourette Syndrome Classification Study Group. Definitions and classification of tic disorders. Arch Neurol . 1993 Oct. 50(10):1013-6. [Medline] . Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 27 Jun 2016 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Plessen KJ and Hagstrøm J. Reviewer Report For: VISIT-TS: A multimedia tool for population studies on tic disorders [version 2; peer review: 3 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1518 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7752.r14613 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1518/v1#referee-response-14613 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 12 Jul 2016 Kerstin J. Plessen , Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen,  Copenhagen, Denmark; Child and Adolescent Mental Health Centre, Mental Health Services - Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark Julie Hagstrm , Child and Adolescent Mental Health Centre, Mental Health Services - Capital Region of Denmark, Copenhagen, Denmark Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7752.r14613 In the article “VISIT-TS version 2: A multimedia tool for population studies on tic disorders” by Vachon, MJ, Striley, CW, Gordon, MR, Schroeder, ML., Bihun, EC, Koller, JM, and Black, KJ, a new method of classifying tics by lay persons ... Continue reading READ ALL 