This manuscript deals with the prevalence of low back pain in teachers at the University of Nairobi and analyzes the relationship between the incidence of low back pain and some variables taken as risk factors. In general, the manuscript was well written, and the study was well conducted, with a consistent statistical analysis and a good discussion. I only have a few minor comments and suggestions. Page 4 - Sample size: Unfortunately, the calculated sample size could not be guaranteed. Given the possibility of sample loss in most studies, why did the authors not start the study with a larger sample than that calculated here? Page 4 - Study variables: I think it would be interesting if the authors could justify the choice of the study variables/factors analyzed here. I think some other factors are, in some extension, more important than that cited here. For example: office chair design is important, but I think the number of hours of sitting work is more or as important as office chair design. Some comments about this would be welcome. Something like "teachers spend most of their time working in a sitting position, thus we considered the chair design as a risk factor for LBP", for example. However, a question can be raised: why not evaluate the number of hours of sitting work? Conceptual framework in Figure 2: I recommend emphasizing that those relationships presented in Figure 2 are a conception of the authors that motivate the choice of the "risk factors" presented here. Those relationships may be different in other conditions, or for other populations, or even other authors may interpret those relationships in a different way. Page 5 - Figure 2 captions: I recommend not using this term here: "causal diagram". We cannot say that those factors are causal factors of LBP: the cause-effect relationship between them and LBP cannot be guaranteed. Furthermore, the relationships presented here are a personal interpretation of the authors. Other authors may establish a different relationship between the factors presented here. For example: for the authors, the level of stress is a risk factor for LBP, but, perhaps, LBP increases the level of stress, especially for a teacher who works seated most of the time. Page 6 - 4.2 Risk factors for LBP: I suggest changing this subsection to something such as "Variables studied as risk factors for LBP". There are other variables that may be related to LBP, and some variables studied here may not be considered risk factors for LBP by other authors. Page 7 - Last paragraph: The interpretation here is somewhat speculative. However, the level of physical activity for each age group can be verified. The authors have this information. This information would be welcome and would support the interpretation raised in that paragraph. 