The article “Needle lost in the haystack: multiple reaction monitoring fails to detect Treponema pallidum candidate protein biomarkers in plasma and urine samples from individuals with syphilis” focuses on developing targeted proteomics based assay to detect and validate potential biomarkers of Treponema pallidum infection. The manuscript is well written, the rationale behind the work is justified, and the methods section is detailed. I would suggest few points as following: Please add the details about participant consent and study approval by the Institutional Review Board (IRB). Why only 4 urine samples were analyzed? Which protein marker(s) supposedly should be detected in urine? And which one(s) in plasma? Please consider adding the details and rationale. Authors have used microflow for the experiments on quadrupole, which has lower sensitivity. Perhaps targeted experiments using a nanoflow setup, as was done for experiments using orbitrap, will get better sensitivity. The synthetic peptides were added after SPE clean-up. Why weren't they added before SPE to determine losses? Please supply more information on how LOD was calculated; it was based on the dilution series? The readers can use the explanation of calculations, if provided. The spiking experiments should have been done in real matrix? Please comment more on PTP selection? Are they unique? What about labile residues? Was anything done to look at the methionine oxidation? Deamindations? etc. The synthetic peptides were 95% pure. Were they quantified? (AAA?) The paper makes an interesting list of its shortcomings in the discussion, which is helpful. A lot of the critique is already self-proclaimed.The overall conclusion of manuscript is: "A lot of effort and fine-tuning of sample prep/method development will be needed for biomarker discovery and validation." Biomarker validation is time-consuming and challenging, perhaps some orthogonal experiments should have been done (such as western blotting) to be able to know if the global data acquired using spectral-count was good enough before moving on to the MRM experiments. Nonetheless, authors have done a great job in discussing the shortcomings and in writing the paper. 