It is a well-written study protocol. The need to have an auditory training program designed for the elderly is critical and very important. The authors are addressing this need by developing a special auditory software. I approve the protocol; however, I do have some comments for improving the study. Most of them are minor and can be handled easily. My two main concerns (explained below under the method section) are related to the participants ‘age and adding a speech perception test at the beginning of the experiment (as a screening tool for measuring the participant's qualification). Introduction: The introduction is short, but it may be related to the Journal specification for the study protocol. Some concept needs to be explained briefly: neural slowing, plasticity, the theoretical framework of temporal processing’, speech perception difficulties, how were these difficulties were measured in the past Some references need to be added. The authors advised to re-read the introduction and add the appropriate references. I am reporting several here, however, the authors need to check the introduction again: For example: The first paragraph of the introduction (the first 2 sentences): ‘One of the most important issues in today’s world is the phenomenon of aging’. ‘With advancing age, the prevalence of chronic diseases increases’. Third Paragraph: ‘There are many potential biological reasons for the elderly’s slower responses, such as reduced myelin integrity, prolonged nerve recovery, reduced brain connections, and reduced neural synchrony’ and the next sentence: ‘Perceptual and neurophysiological studies have shown that central auditory processing is also impaired by hearing loss and aging.’ Sex paragraph: 'Substantial evidence suggests that humans, with or without hearing loss, can increase their ability to perceive spectral and temporal features of acoustic stimuli through auditory training exercises.' Objective/Aim The last paragraph of the introduction is related to the objective. This needs to be re-written. The main objective of the project needs to be presented more clearly. Can the authors formulate one or two hypotheses for their project? Method section: Inclusion criteria: Numbers 3 and 4 can be combined. Number 5: why 3 months, based on which studies. It will be highly necessary to include one speech perception test (in silence and in noise) for selecting the participant. In fact, not all the participants would have an important speech understanding difficulty in noise. Can the speech perception be measured before enrolling in the project? Since the authors will run a basic audiological evaluation to determine the hearing loss degree, adding a speech test (even a screening one), will be so beneficial. Participant's age: I am a little concerned about the participant’s age range, it is an important factor. A 60 years old participant will not have the same auditory capacity (Peripheral and central) compared to a 75 yrs old. Do you have any distribution limits? I mean how would the authors control this potential situation: 10 out of 12 participants are 60 yrs and only 2 are 75 years in the experimental group. I understand that we cannot control all the variables, however, can we concentrate on 70 to 75 yrs population instead of having this large age window (especially for the elderly that each year would bring some kind of declines in their capacity) Testing the Auditory training’ effect: Before, immediately and one month after. Can we evaluate the performance three months later as well to be sure about the long-term effect? Authors mentioned that the training sessions will be monitored via phone or video call, is it for each session? How the authors can be sure that the participants will be practicing 30 to 40 minutes per session (not more or less), is there any way to detect the duration of the practice. Discussion: Authors mentioned that age-related hearing loss not only influences the physical and emotional activities of the elderly but also affects their social activities and reduces their quality of life. Is it possible to add a questionnaire evaluating some of the emotional, social, and/or daily communication patterns? 