Thank you for asking me to comment on this paper. I can only speak from the point of view of patients and carers. The main problem is that of confidentiality of data, and some patients are worried about this. The authors acknowledge that this could be a problem (a sixth excuse). Anonymising data is of course essential, but 'small risks remain'. Remember the case of the anonymous male with back problems who was written about in an American medical journal and turned out (without too much detective work) to be President Kennedy? Personally I don't care tuppence who knows that I have had breast cancer - it's in the public domain anyway. But some conditions people would not wish to be known about: abortions, STD, some mental illnesses, and so on. If data are anonymised that is usually sufficient safeguard, but in epidemiological studies unique postcodes are a giveaway. I am a member of the Public Panel of the FARR Institute in Scotland, and we have debated the matter of Big Data at length. We have a system here called SHARE, where if you are happy for your data to be used for research you sign a form, obtainable from your GP's surgery. This also gives permission for the residue of blood samples taken for routine purposes to be used for research. Most people are happy, but some are not, even given the guarantee of anonymity. However, this system gives permission for data culled from healthcare registries to be used for research: it does not as far as I know include data from trials already conducted. This to me is a new idea, and it raises different issues. FARR talks about 'safe havens' for data, so that personal details cannot be shared and anonymity is guaranteed. It seems to me that if data already gathered for research are to be released to researchers other than the original investigators, this raises an entirely new issue. It would mean that consent forms should be revised so that they take account of the possibility that data will be shared with others at a later date. It is important to make it clear that healthcare data are not the property of the researchers who have only borrowed them: they belong to the patient. Therefore, if data are to be made more widely available, the patient needs to give consent. This means that consent forms need to make this explicit, and all other data used for research, for instance epidemiological studies that do not require active co-operation from the patient, need to have blanket consent from patients, who should be encouraged to complete a SHARE form. Personally, I like to know what researchers are going to do with my data. My husband and I were ‘consulted’ as members of a patient reference group about a stroke trial (he has had a stroke), and we both felt that it should not have gone ahead: the rest of the patient group thought so too, but it went ahead anyway. I don’t know how it got through Ethics. The relevance for this paper is that patients do have a right to say what their data are going to be used for. If they don’t approve of the trial, then they won’t let their data be used. If they have given permission initially for a study that they approve of, and the proposal is to share the data further, should they not be given a say in what their data are to be used for subsequently? Once Big Pharma get their hands on the data who knows what will become of it. This makes the sharing of data more complicated, but I believe it should be done, and that this article needs to take account of these issues. I also have some minor copy-edit suggestions: Abstract: “[…]competitors might reach different conclusions[…]” The seven incentives not to share: “[…]for employers and funders to recognise that judging researchers is core business that should not be outsourced to the arbitrary and corrupt publishing process.” The seven incentives not to share: “This cannot be in the interest of patients, who clearly want to know whether the treatment is effective or not […]” The seven incentives not to share: “There are no insurmountable technical reasons for not sharing and publishing data.” 