This protocol seeks to understand whether visual-cognition influences gait performance and visual sampling behaviour in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Overall the protocol is well written and the details provided are sufficient to replicate the study. The sample sizes are good for gait and eye tracking data analysis. The tests used for evaluation of cognition and visual spatial ability are validated and appropriate tests. However, there are several methods and/or analyses the authors should consider in their protocol that will help to address their aims. In addition, there are several minor additions that the authors should also consider. Major points: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the filed of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 Minor points: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. References 1. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, et al.: Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) . 2011; 63 (12): 1706-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Reed-Jones RJ, Dorgo S, Hitchings MK, Bader JO: WiiFit™ Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture . 2012; 36 (3): 430-3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Reed-Jones RJ. Reviewer Report For: A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson’s disease: impact of cognition and response to visual cues [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :1379 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7889.r11401 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v1#referee-response-11401 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 24 Mar 2016 Sam Stuart , Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK 24 Mar 2016 Author Response We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response (A) Major Points: Q: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the field of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. A: The four-point calibration procedure has been developed by the manufacturer and we are unable to increase or decrease the number of points used. We agree that it may increase the accuracy of the calibration with more points, but this has yet to be investigated. We calibrated the eye tracker to the dimensions of the gaitlab where the individuals would walk, which meant that the calibration was as large as possible. This was done by placing four cones with markers on top in the area to be walked through, which were used as the four points for the calibration. Q: For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. A: Examining areas of interest is certainly a topic for future investigation in this field of research. However mobile eye-tracking technology is not capable of automatically performing area of interest analysis with sufficient accuracy for our purpose. Currently only frame-by-frame manual analysis of the area of interest data is possible, which with large numbers of participants and trials can be time consuming. Our recent mobile eye-tracker accuracy and reliability article ( Stuart et al. , 2016a ) also showed that during walking the device (i.e. the cross hair on the field camera, that signifies where an individual is looking) can be up to 8 degrees off target, which can be the difference between looking at an obstacle and not looking at one. This does not affect the temporal data, as eye movements are still detected regardless of location of the cross hair on the field camera, but may impact area of interest analysis. Therefore the current study will focus on the temporal data, specifically saccade frequency during gait. Q: Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 A: The contribution of cognitive and visual functions to visual sampling will be investigated based upon our a priori hypothesis that cognitive and visual functions, as well as demographic features will be associated with visual sampling (specifically saccade frequency). This will be done using multiple linear regression, performed in four separate steps; Step 1: Demographics (Age, UPDRS III, MoCA, GDS-15) Step 2: Cognition (Attention, Executive function, Visuo-spatial ability, Working memory) Step 3: Visual Functions (visual acuity, contrast sensitivity) Step 4: Visuo-cognition (combination of all of the variables in the above steps) Variables entered into the steps will be determined through univariate and bivariate analysis. Variables that best represent each cognitive outcome will be used within the analysis.Text has been added to the statistical analysis section which describes this analysis. Structural equation modelling (SEM) will be used to examine our a priori model of visuo-cognition in gait in PD (For a review pertaining to the model see; ( Stuart et al. , 2016b ). This model will examine the inter-relationships between cognition, visual function, visual sampling (saccade frequency) and gait in PD. This technique is an ideal statistical method for assessing a priori hypotheses, as it allows for hypothesised interactions to be represented within the model. SEM also provides direct and indirect relationships between variables, which are not provided by regression analysis. This has been added to the statistical analysis section of the article. Minor points: Q: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. A: The study aims with specific analysis are now provided within the statistical analysis section of the article. Q: The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. A: A brief summary table for all participant demographic and clinical features is now provided within the article; Table 3. There are no individuals within the study that had Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response (A) Major Points: Q: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the field of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. A: The four-point calibration procedure has been developed by the manufacturer and we are unable to increase or decrease the number of points used. We agree that it may increase the accuracy of the calibration with more points, but this has yet to be investigated. We calibrated the eye tracker to the dimensions of the gaitlab where the individuals would walk, which meant that the calibration was as large as possible. This was done by placing four cones with markers on top in the area to be walked through, which were used as the four points for the calibration. Q: For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. A: Examining areas of interest is certainly a topic for future investigation in this field of research. However mobile eye-tracking technology is not capable of automatically performing area of interest analysis with sufficient accuracy for our purpose. Currently only frame-by-frame manual analysis of the area of interest data is possible, which with large numbers of participants and trials can be time consuming. Our recent mobile eye-tracker accuracy and reliability article ( Stuart et al. , 2016a ) also showed that during walking the device (i.e. the cross hair on the field camera, that signifies where an individual is looking) can be up to 8 degrees off target, which can be the difference between looking at an obstacle and not looking at one. This does not affect the temporal data, as eye movements are still detected regardless of location of the cross hair on the field camera, but may impact area of interest analysis. Therefore the current study will focus on the temporal data, specifically saccade frequency during gait. Q: Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 A: The contribution of cognitive and visual functions to visual sampling will be investigated based upon our a priori hypothesis that cognitive and visual functions, as well as demographic features will be associated with visual sampling (specifically saccade frequency). This will be done using multiple linear regression, performed in four separate steps; Step 1: Demographics (Age, UPDRS III, MoCA, GDS-15) Step 2: Cognition (Attention, Executive function, Visuo-spatial ability, Working memory) Step 3: Visual Functions (visual acuity, contrast sensitivity) Step 4: Visuo-cognition (combination of all of the variables in the above steps) Variables entered into the steps will be determined through univariate and bivariate analysis. Variables that best represent each cognitive outcome will be used within the analysis.Text has been added to the statistical analysis section which describes this analysis. Structural equation modelling (SEM) will be used to examine our a priori model of visuo-cognition in gait in PD (For a review pertaining to the model see; ( Stuart et al. , 2016b ). This model will examine the inter-relationships between cognition, visual function, visual sampling (saccade frequency) and gait in PD. This technique is an ideal statistical method for assessing a priori hypotheses, as it allows for hypothesised interactions to be represented within the model. SEM also provides direct and indirect relationships between variables, which are not provided by regression analysis. This has been added to the statistical analysis section of the article. Minor points: Q: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. A: The study aims with specific analysis are now provided within the statistical analysis section of the article. Q: The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. A: A brief summary table for all participant demographic and clinical features is now provided within the article; Table 3. There are no individuals within the study that had Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 24 Mar 2016 Sam Stuart , Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK 24 Mar 2016 Author Response We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response ... Continue reading We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response (A) Major Points: Q: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the field of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. A: The four-point calibration procedure has been developed by the manufacturer and we are unable to increase or decrease the number of points used. We agree that it may increase the accuracy of the calibration with more points, but this has yet to be investigated. We calibrated the eye tracker to the dimensions of the gaitlab where the individuals would walk, which meant that the calibration was as large as possible. This was done by placing four cones with markers on top in the area to be walked through, which were used as the four points for the calibration. Q: For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. A: Examining areas of interest is certainly a topic for future investigation in this field of research. However mobile eye-tracking technology is not capable of automatically performing area of interest analysis with sufficient accuracy for our purpose. Currently only frame-by-frame manual analysis of the area of interest data is possible, which with large numbers of participants and trials can be time consuming. Our recent mobile eye-tracker accuracy and reliability article ( Stuart et al. , 2016a ) also showed that during walking the device (i.e. the cross hair on the field camera, that signifies where an individual is looking) can be up to 8 degrees off target, which can be the difference between looking at an obstacle and not looking at one. This does not affect the temporal data, as eye movements are still detected regardless of location of the cross hair on the field camera, but may impact area of interest analysis. Therefore the current study will focus on the temporal data, specifically saccade frequency during gait. Q: Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 A: The contribution of cognitive and visual functions to visual sampling will be investigated based upon our a priori hypothesis that cognitive and visual functions, as well as demographic features will be associated with visual sampling (specifically saccade frequency). This will be done using multiple linear regression, performed in four separate steps; Step 1: Demographics (Age, UPDRS III, MoCA, GDS-15) Step 2: Cognition (Attention, Executive function, Visuo-spatial ability, Working memory) Step 3: Visual Functions (visual acuity, contrast sensitivity) Step 4: Visuo-cognition (combination of all of the variables in the above steps) Variables entered into the steps will be determined through univariate and bivariate analysis. Variables that best represent each cognitive outcome will be used within the analysis.Text has been added to the statistical analysis section which describes this analysis. Structural equation modelling (SEM) will be used to examine our a priori model of visuo-cognition in gait in PD (For a review pertaining to the model see; ( Stuart et al. , 2016b ). This model will examine the inter-relationships between cognition, visual function, visual sampling (saccade frequency) and gait in PD. This technique is an ideal statistical method for assessing a priori hypotheses, as it allows for hypothesised interactions to be represented within the model. SEM also provides direct and indirect relationships between variables, which are not provided by regression analysis. This has been added to the statistical analysis section of the article. Minor points: Q: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. A: The study aims with specific analysis are now provided within the statistical analysis section of the article. Q: The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. A: A brief summary table for all participant demographic and clinical features is now provided within the article; Table 3. There are no individuals within the study that had Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response (A) Major Points: Q: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the field of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. A: The four-point calibration procedure has been developed by the manufacturer and we are unable to increase or decrease the number of points used. We agree that it may increase the accuracy of the calibration with more points, but this has yet to be investigated. We calibrated the eye tracker to the dimensions of the gaitlab where the individuals would walk, which meant that the calibration was as large as possible. This was done by placing four cones with markers on top in the area to be walked through, which were used as the four points for the calibration. Q: For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. A: Examining areas of interest is certainly a topic for future investigation in this field of research. However mobile eye-tracking technology is not capable of automatically performing area of interest analysis with sufficient accuracy for our purpose. Currently only frame-by-frame manual analysis of the area of interest data is possible, which with large numbers of participants and trials can be time consuming. Our recent mobile eye-tracker accuracy and reliability article ( Stuart et al. , 2016a ) also showed that during walking the device (i.e. the cross hair on the field camera, that signifies where an individual is looking) can be up to 8 degrees off target, which can be the difference between looking at an obstacle and not looking at one. This does not affect the temporal data, as eye movements are still detected regardless of location of the cross hair on the field camera, but may impact area of interest analysis. Therefore the current study will focus on the temporal data, specifically saccade frequency during gait. Q: Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 A: The contribution of cognitive and visual functions to visual sampling will be investigated based upon our a priori hypothesis that cognitive and visual functions, as well as demographic features will be associated with visual sampling (specifically saccade frequency). This will be done using multiple linear regression, performed in four separate steps; Step 1: Demographics (Age, UPDRS III, MoCA, GDS-15) Step 2: Cognition (Attention, Executive function, Visuo-spatial ability, Working memory) Step 3: Visual Functions (visual acuity, contrast sensitivity) Step 4: Visuo-cognition (combination of all of the variables in the above steps) Variables entered into the steps will be determined through univariate and bivariate analysis. Variables that best represent each cognitive outcome will be used within the analysis.Text has been added to the statistical analysis section which describes this analysis. Structural equation modelling (SEM) will be used to examine our a priori model of visuo-cognition in gait in PD (For a review pertaining to the model see; ( Stuart et al. , 2016b ). This model will examine the inter-relationships between cognition, visual function, visual sampling (saccade frequency) and gait in PD. This technique is an ideal statistical method for assessing a priori hypotheses, as it allows for hypothesised interactions to be represented within the model. SEM also provides direct and indirect relationships between variables, which are not provided by regression analysis. This has been added to the statistical analysis section of the article. Minor points: Q: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. A: The study aims with specific analysis are now provided within the statistical analysis section of the article. Q: The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. A: A brief summary table for all participant demographic and clinical features is now provided within the article; Table 3. There are no individuals within the study that had Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 2 VERSION 2 PUBLISHED 30 Nov 2015 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 Version 2 (revision) 24 Mar 16 read Version 1 30 Nov 15 read read Rebecca J Reed-Jones , University of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, Canada Rodrigo Vitrio , Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Canada Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2016 Reed-Jones R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 04 Apr 2016 | for Version 2 Rebecca J Reed-Jones , Department of Applied Human Sciences, University of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, PE, Canada 0 Views copyright © 2016 Reed-Jones R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The authors have addressed the suggestions made by the reviewers well. The methods are clearly laid out. In addition, the section describing how each analysis addresses a particular aim in the study is nicely written. I believe the protocol as outlined will provide interesting data that will contribute significantly to current literature regarding vision and cognition during gait in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Reed-Jones RJ. Peer Review Report For: A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson’s disease: impact of cognition and response to visual cues [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :1379 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8311.r13070) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v2#referee-response-13070 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2015 Vitório R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 10 Dec 2015 | for Version 1 Rodrigo Vitrio , Sun Life Financial Movement Disorders Research & Rehabilitation Centre, Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, ON, Canada 0 Views copyright © 2015 Vitório R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions In this paper, S. Stuart and colleagues present an elegant and thorough protocol for testing visuo-cognition during gait. Authors aim to examine the contribution of cognition and vision in gait in Parkinson's Disease (independent roles and interaction between both functions), and the role of visuo-cognition in gait in Parkinson's Disease. The novelty of current study is taking into consideration the combined and interactive impact that cognitive and visual function impairments have on gait in Parkinson's Disease. To date, previous studies in this field have investigated the independent contribution of cognition and vision to gait in Parkinson's Disease. The described experimental design, including controls and methods, is totally adequate. Although the current version does not report the results, my expectation is that this study, once complete, will impact the field. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 24 Mar 2016 Sam Stuart, Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK We thank the reviewer for their time and comments. View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Vitório R. Peer Review Report For: A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson’s disease: impact of cognition and response to visual cues [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :1379 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7889.r11399) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v1#referee-response-11399 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2015 Reed-Jones R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 07 Dec 2015 | for Version 1 Rebecca J Reed-Jones , Department of Applied Human Sciences, University of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, PE, Canada 0 Views copyright © 2015 Reed-Jones R. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (1) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions This protocol seeks to understand whether visual-cognition influences gait performance and visual sampling behaviour in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Overall the protocol is well written and the details provided are sufficient to replicate the study. The sample sizes are good for gait and eye tracking data analysis. The tests used for evaluation of cognition and visual spatial ability are validated and appropriate tests. However, there are several methods and/or analyses the authors should consider in their protocol that will help to address their aims. In addition, there are several minor additions that the authors should also consider. Major points: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the filed of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 Minor points: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. References 1. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, et al.: Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken) . 2011; 63 (12): 1706-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Reed-Jones RJ, Dorgo S, Hitchings MK, Bader JO: WiiFit™ Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture . 2012; 36 (3): 430-3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. reply Respond to this report Responses (1) Author Response 24 Mar 2016 Sam Stuart, Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK We thank the reviewer for their time and comments which we believe have improved the manuscript. Please find below a list of reviewer comments and our reply. Comments (Q) Response (A) Major Points: Q: Is the 4-point calibration matrix for the eye tracker sufficient? The accuracy of eye trackers increases with the number of points used in the calibration. Some indication as to the accuracy of using only four points should be made. In addition, what was the size of the calibration field used? The calibration field should be as large as the field of view intended for the activity. In gait, the visual field is relatively large and therefore making the calibration field as large as possible is important. A: The four-point calibration procedure has been developed by the manufacturer and we are unable to increase or decrease the number of points used. We agree that it may increase the accuracy of the calibration with more points, but this has yet to be investigated. We calibrated the eye tracker to the dimensions of the gaitlab where the individuals would walk, which meant that the calibration was as large as possible. This was done by placing four cones with markers on top in the area to be walked through, which were used as the four points for the calibration. Q: For visual sampling dependent variables, I would recommend the addition of examining areas of interest. In addition to whether participants are moving their eyes (how much, how often and how quickly), WHAT they are looking at is also of value. This is particularly relevant to the research question of understanding the influence of cognition as WHAT they are looking at may give you an indication of attention to particular objects or areas that may or may not be relevant to the task. For example, some work done by Shirley Rietdyk that was presented at ISPGR in Seville showed some interesting results of increased obstacle collisions when young adults looked off the travel pathway. A: Examining areas of interest is certainly a topic for future investigation in this field of research. However mobile eye-tracking technology is not capable of automatically performing area of interest analysis with sufficient accuracy for our purpose. Currently only frame-by-frame manual analysis of the area of interest data is possible, which with large numbers of participants and trials can be time consuming. Our recent mobile eye-tracker accuracy and reliability article ( Stuart et al. , 2016a ) also showed that during walking the device (i.e. the cross hair on the field camera, that signifies where an individual is looking) can be up to 8 degrees off target, which can be the difference between looking at an obstacle and not looking at one. This does not affect the temporal data, as eye movements are still detected regardless of location of the cross hair on the field camera, but may impact area of interest analysis. Therefore the current study will focus on the temporal data, specifically saccade frequency during gait. Q: Given the number of visual spatial and cognitive tests used to assess these domains, would a more sophisticated regression model be more valuable? The use of principal component analyses (PCAs) or separate hierarchical linear regression models could examine the interrelationships of the variables. Details on these types of analyses that may be useful can be found in the following papers. Pua YH, Liang Z, Ong PH, Bryant AL, Lo NN, Clark RA. (2011) Associations of knee extensor strength and standing balance with physical function in knee osteoarthritis. Arthritis Care and Research 2011;63(12):1706–14. doi: 10.1002/acr.20615 1 Reed-Jones RJ, et al. WiiFit TM Plus balance test scores for the assessment of balance and mobility in older adults. Gait Posture 36(3):430-3. doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.03.027 2 A: The contribution of cognitive and visual functions to visual sampling will be investigated based upon our a priori hypothesis that cognitive and visual functions, as well as demographic features will be associated with visual sampling (specifically saccade frequency). This will be done using multiple linear regression, performed in four separate steps; Step 1: Demographics (Age, UPDRS III, MoCA, GDS-15) Step 2: Cognition (Attention, Executive function, Visuo-spatial ability, Working memory) Step 3: Visual Functions (visual acuity, contrast sensitivity) Step 4: Visuo-cognition (combination of all of the variables in the above steps) Variables entered into the steps will be determined through univariate and bivariate analysis. Variables that best represent each cognitive outcome will be used within the analysis.Text has been added to the statistical analysis section which describes this analysis. Structural equation modelling (SEM) will be used to examine our a priori model of visuo-cognition in gait in PD (For a review pertaining to the model see; ( Stuart et al. , 2016b ). This model will examine the inter-relationships between cognition, visual function, visual sampling (saccade frequency) and gait in PD. This technique is an ideal statistical method for assessing a priori hypotheses, as it allows for hypothesised interactions to be represented within the model. SEM also provides direct and indirect relationships between variables, which are not provided by regression analysis. This has been added to the statistical analysis section of the article. Minor points: Q: The aims are stated clearly, however when it comes to the methods there are a large number of tests described. Reading through the tests in the methods it is not clear what these will be used for and how they address the aims of the research. Perhaps within the aims section an additional sentence or two that indicates how each aim will be tested would help the reader to follow along with the tests described in the methods more clearly. A: The study aims with specific analysis are now provided within the statistical analysis section of the article. Q: The authors provide details on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for participants. However, for the PD participants, a summary of the demographics of the participants in the study should be provided. In particular, the distribution of HY stages in the group, the distribution of medication versus DBS, versus a combination of the two. A: A brief summary table for all participant demographic and clinical features is now provided within the article; Table 3. There are no individuals within the study that had Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS). View more View less Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. reply Respond Report a concern 
 
 Reed-Jones RJ. Peer Review Report For: A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson’s disease: impact of cognition and response to visual cues [version 2; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :1379 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7889.r11401) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v1#referee-response-11401 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "A protocol to examine vision and gait in...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v2&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v2" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Stuart S et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v2/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379",
 templates : {
 twitter : "A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson\u2019s disease:.... Stuart S et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1379/v2"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson\u2019s disease: impact of cognition and response to visual cues", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Study Protocol", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: A protocol to examine vision and gait in Parkinson\u2019s disease: impact of cognition and response to visual cues", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/7320/8311")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "8311");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "11399": 17,
 "11400": 0,
 "11401": 30,
 "11402": 0,
 "13070": 12,
 "13071": 0,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "bab36ada-998b-4cf0-b2b5-ccde845a00bb";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 