This is a well written manuscript. However, I have a few comments that may help strengthen the manuscript. In the introduction, the authors state that Depression related to child bearing can develop either during pregnancy (prenatal depression), after birth (postnatal depression) or both (perinatal depression)". The word both is hanging, consider both periods . Still in the introduction, the authors state: The main psychological and psychiatric predictors of prenatal depression are history of mental or anxiety disorder". This is confusing, since anxiety disorder is a mental disorder. Consider correcting to read: The main psychological predictor of prenatal depression is a history of mental disorders. In the methods, the study lacks a description of study procedures, specifically: Were the questions administered through interviews, or self reporting? Were the tools translated, what language was used, who administered the tools, where was this done in the hospital, a private room perhaps? In the methods, kindly clarify if the social provisions scale and the composite abuse scale were translated and validated for the setting. Have they been used in this setting? Under statistical analysis, the authors describe the categorization of ages "Since inclusion of age as a continuous variable was insignificant in the univariable analysis, it was categorized into three groups: 18–25 years, 26–29 years and 30–34 years and reassessed for significance as a categorical variable." What informed this categorization and where were the women older than 34 years included? In the discussion: the authors state "Age did not significantly influence the likelihood of prenatal depression in this study. However, other studies have revealed that age is a significant predictor of prenatal depression owing to the fact that young pregnant women are likely to be financially unstable and may not be socially and psychologically prepared to cope with pregnancy demands and this may predispose them to depression". The authors may need to elaborate or postulate why this study found no association with age, seeing that other studies have found some link. What is a possible explanation. Perhaps the age range of your sample was not wide enough? Similarly to alcohol and substance use, kindly give an explanation for the negative findings. Under limitations the authors state "The results from this study are generalizable to similar settings in other low- and middle-income countries." I believe the authors meant not generalizable. Please correct. Also include limitation that this study was a facility based study as opposed to population based. We know majority of depressed ladies may not go for antenatal care, hence some bias in sample selection. The conclusion can be considered an over reach. It appears as if the authors did an intervention study that identified these specific interventions to work while instead they have simply identified risk factors in a small non generalized population. I believe the conclusion should call for more research around specific risk factors identified (violence and social support and how it relates to prenatal depression). This study goal was not to screen nor examine the interventions postulated in the conclusion but to identify predictors/risk factors. Also results were not generalizable. Consider including future studies on the same for a larger more generalizable studies with these predictors included or more studies that replicate similar findings to establish these predictors. Perhaps also test interventions that can address this predictors. 