This subject is one that is close to my heart, and on reading it I recognised all of the issues and challenges that the authors have described. The paper is an honest account of the realities faced by "teaching-focused" academics in Life Sciences, and is well written and presented. I have selected "approved with reservations" for the following reason: the authors rightly state, "The vocabulary and style of pedagogical literature can be quite different than that of bioscience, and the lack of immediate peers can make engaging with the literature more challenging. Not only does this make current research harder to interpret and implement, but it acts as a hurdle to preparing manuscripts when authors are less clear about the expectations of journal editors and their audience; something which we experienced ourselves when writing this paper." In addition, identifying relevant literature is also a challenge. I believe that the paper would be strengthened by the addition of relevant pedagogical literature, and ask the authors to consider inclusion of the following papers to strengthen their argument: Rox, T., Olsson, T. Mrtensson, K. (2007) Scholarship of Teaching and Learning as a strategy for institutional change, in Enhancing Higher Education, Theory and Scholarship, Proceedings of the 30th HERDSA Annual Conference, Adelaide, 8-11 July 2007: pp 487 available online at: http://www.herdsa.org.au/wp-content/uploads/conference/2007/papers/p233.pdf [accessed 26/03/2015] This paper explores the role of the scholarship of teaching and learning for institutional change, and the importance of local and external networks, both of which were touched upon in the paper. Kreber, C. (2005) Reflection on teaching and the scholarship of teaching: Focus on science instructors, Higher Education, 50, 323-359 available at http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10734-004-6360-2 [accessed 26/03/2015] Carolin Krebers work surrounds the importance of reflective practice. This paper concentrates on science instructors, and so is particularly relevant for this paper, although Carolins other work is also relevant. Again, reflective practice was discussed by the authors, and the inclusion of this paper strengthens the argument. The final suggestion I have is the case studies. I like them very much and feel that they bring the paper to life, but at the moment they feel like an appendix. I would advise that you move them forward into the body of the paper, as they highlight some of the challenges and issues that you have talked about in general, but as you experience them as individuals. Moving them forward in the paper also allows you to then discuss them in the conclusion section. I enjoyed reading this paper very much, and your experiences as early-career academics resonated with my own, and colleagues experiences. Thank you very much for writing this paper, and I hope my suggestions will strengthen your argument.