Scientific paper "Global Open Data in Agriculture and Nutrition (GODAN) Initiative partner network analysis” addresses important aspect of Open Data in Agriculture and Nutrient. It describes and analyses survey, which was provided by GODAN among its members. It give overview about collection and utilisation of Open Data by GODAN member. It give basic statistic of different types of GODAN members and also their role in Open Data Chain. From this point of view review is well provided. What is missing is to put this paper into broader content. In some parts it has more form of reports, then scientific paper. Analysis of literature is relatively poor and it is mainly focused on previous GODAN analysis without clear reference. There are also mistake in links from text to references (more in end of paper). There exist number of research activities focused on Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrient, but the results of review are not compared with this research. Due near focus only on interpretation of survey, there are missed information about some global initiatives like for example GEOSS (which cooperate closely with GODAN) and which is partly focused on Open Data for Agriculture. What is also missing in survey is focus on type of data. This is important due the fact, that for example satellite data (Landsat, Sentinel) are now currently biggest source of Open Data for Agriculture, which are broadly used. Statistic are well elaborate, but in some cases samples are relatively poor and it could be also influenced, that samples are taken only from GODAN members. But on other side is clear, that it is not easy to collect such information. Probably will be also good to mentioned in article question of data privacy. It is partly addressed in Conclusion, but without clear explanation. It is clear that not all data could be open due privacy, but it is not mentioned clearly. In relation to this I would like also recommend to compare open data and shared data. This play important role for example in Precision Agriculture, where number of applications is based on combination of Open Data (for example satellite, and data, which are shared like private farming data). Conclusion is analysing results of survey and presenting importance of analysis, for other GODAN activities. However is a little generic, it will be good to stress some important activities and source, which could be used for future for GODAN activities, and also how better target activities in certain regions. In conclusion about data infrastructure (page 8) is not clear if discussion is about infrastructure for Open Data or generic Data Infrastructure. From the text seems, that more about generic data infrastructure. There are in conclusion also wrong links to references. For example reference 11, which is in text related to Precision Agriculture is focused on previous Genomic. Then Reference 12 related to Precision Agriculture is mentioned in text in relation with Data Ownership (please check this). It is also not clear, if the reference 12 "Precision agriculture and the future of farming in Europe Scientific Foresight Study" is really relevant to the topic of Data Infrastructure, resp. Open Data Infrastructure. I would like recommend to modified this article and put it into broader content of Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrient and also clarify some not clear statement in Conclusions. 