In this manuscript, the authors were supposed to examine the relationship between the "relative prolixity" and the CiteScore , an index reflecting the journal quality. They found that articles published in journals with higher CiteScore have lower relative prolixity. There are, however, many major problems with the hypothesis and the methodology used. Major Problems: The relative prolixity was defined “as the ratio between the number of characters and the number of citations contained in the introductory section of original articles.” The definition was based on the assumption that increasing the number of characters would increase prolixity, which might be correct, and that citing any reference would make the text more informative, which is correct but NOT relevant to the hypothesis of this study. In fact, although citing any reference would add some information, the number of citations does not necessarily reflect the amount of information conveyed in an article. There is no evidence indicating that the number of citations in the Introduction is associated with the information provided by an article, to the best of my knowledge. Most of the information conveyed in an article is presented in the Results section. Therefore, reasonable surrogates for the amount of information conveyed in an article would be the number of figures in Tables, the number of curves, number of columns in a bar chart, number of points in a scatter plot, number of p values presented (number of hypotheses tested), to name just a few. As all the conclusions were made based on an invalid index, the study has neither internal nor external validity. In Statistical Methods, the authors should have considered correction of p values reported for multiple comparisons made. Having extreme values would increase the absolute value of the correlation coefficient. This should be considered in interpreting the results presented in Fig. 2. Minor Problems: The Spearman’s rho is not reported. There is no definition for “obscurity.” The authors should thus not comment on the obscurity of articles. In journalism, we usually refer to journals with the highest CiteScore as Q1, not Q4. In this manuscript, the authors did categorize in an opposite way. As Richard Smith, the former Editor of BMJ , has pointed out, many authors do not read the instructions for authors of journals at all, no matter how detailed they are. 