 Title: When I first read the title, I found it confusing. It wasnt until I read the abstract that I understood the purpose of the paper. I suggest changing the word to , due to or . Abstract: Clear and concise, a good summary of the article Introduction: Well written and covers the relevant introductory subject matter. I suggest a couple of changes to Paragraph 5: Firstly, the second last sentence does not make sense. Maybe change it to something like "For example, if early preventative efforts had been funded to prevent invasion of the rusty crayfish ..., $6 million USD in fisheries harvest revenue during the 30 years since invasion may have been protected... I also suggest changing the word in the last sentence to something like . I suggest one change to Paragraph 6: Merging the first two sentences. Methodology, results and discussion: These sections are well written and deal well with uncertainties associated with predicting invasion impacts a piori . I have one concern. I dont understand how the authors have dealt with invasion consequences over time. Usually, invading populations follow a logistic function over time. From what I read, the authors have calculated the cost at full invasion, rather than the costs over time of growing green crab populations. I am not sure whether the values for reduced revenues are annual values, or total values over a time period. If they are annual values, and if I have not misunderstood the study, the authors need to present them as year -1 values and justify why they did not consider a net present value over time. If they are values that consider invasion over time, the authors need to clearly specify the time period and their discounting methodology. Table 1: I suggest removing the grand total value from the Avg. $/kg column and including it a new row named something like Weighted average. Conclusions: I suggest the conclusions specify clearly that there will be costs associated with preventing or containing invasion, and that these results need to be considered by government and industry in the knowledge of whether it is most cost-effective to fund prevention of green crab invasion or other more pressing alternatives. I am not sure the authors can state Preventing or reducing the effect of high-impact species invasions should be a priority as these invasions have direct economic impacts and a range of indirect effects on ecosystem function. Perhaps it can be altered to something like Preventing or reducing the effects of high-impact species invasions should be considered by government as a potential priority, as these invasions 