Review report for article entitle “Hermaphroditism in the white spot grouper Epinephelus coeruleopunctatus (Pisces: Serranidae) harvested from Padang City waters, Indonesia”. Overall, this article has displayed originality in the work and the outcome of this work adds benefit to the area of the research. This article is presented well with cohesiveness. However, editorial suggestions should be addressed by the author. Below, the basis for suggestion followed by some special editorial concern by section. Title: The title is short, informative and well constructed. Abstract: Suggestion: Information regarding on how sex differentiation was performed should be written. Introduction: The introduction has provided quality relevant information particularly with regard to hermaphroditism. Suggestion: The introduction required to include relevant information specific to sex differentiation by using gonad identification followed by relevant references. Methods: a) Please provide specific instrument that used to measure the total length and body weight. b) Gonad measurement was performed but there is no gonad weight data in the result section. c) Microscopic observations of the gonad is not clearly describe. d) "The data were analyzed descriptively" the statement is not clear which data referring to in this article. Please be specific Results: a) Length and weight frequency distribution class in the table 1 and 2 is not clearly defined. b) Set data or the number of the sample is too small. c) It is stated that the occurrence of sex transformation in hermaphroditic fish is species dependent and strongly influenced by environmental factors. The author should include the environment report in the study area. This environment report will give another perspective on this study. Conclusion: To conclude the finding that the female differentiated at 183mm and sex changed to male occurred at 302 mm is too “early” because is based on the length and weight. It is better to include histological, endocrinological or event molecular study in this article. References: Suggestion: delete ref #27 