The work from Niels van Tol et al. presents two strategies to assess promoter activity in Arabidopsis meiosis. The identification of promoters with expression specific to meiosis is of interest to the field. However, some limitations in the techniques used and in the experimental designs impaired the conclusions drawn by the authors. Specific comments: Page 7, Figure 4B: What is the rational to use RFP signal as control of autofluorescence for the GFP signal? These two signals have different excitation and emission wavelengths and the RFP signal will not provide any information on how much autofluorescence passing through the GFP filter is detected. A wild type plant without GFP protein is the best control for GFP autofluorescence. Page 7, Figure 4A and 4B: It is unclear to me whether the cells labelled with GFP are meiocytes or not. It is also unclear at what stage of meiosis the cells are. It is important to use a chromatin dye here, e.g. DAPI. – see below for more comments on this Page 7, Figure 4C: It is not apparent that we have cells with 10 and 5 chromocenters. It seems to me that there is a range of chromocenters from 3 to 10 – this would support the idea that the number of chromocenters doesn’t necessary reflect the ploidy content but rather reflects specific stages in the cell cycle. Page 7, Figure 4D: On the 2 zoom-in images (2n=10 and n=5), it seems to me that none of the two cells presented are meiocytes. Page 8 - “this dropped to approximately five GFP foci in meiocytes” - I don’t understand the idea that cells with less chromocenters are meiocytes. The interest of using this technique is to test for promoter activity in meiocytes. However, the authors have not fully demonstrated that they can identify meiocytes in their assay. The authors seem to suggest that the number of chromocenters could help differentiate between meiocytes and somatic cells but the authors are not referring to any paper to support their claim. The authors then suggest that a cell with fewer than 10 chromocenters is either “haploid or that chromocenters were in close proximity”. The authors didn’t comment on the latter possibility and its implication with meiosis, which makes their explanation unclear. The former possibility is that cells are haploid. On the images in figure 4B, the cells seem widely spaced out, ruling out that cells are at dyad-tetrad stage and so if the cells are haploids, there are post-meiosis and the technique is no longer suitable to assess for promoter activity in meiocytes. More worrying, the authors show two cells on the the 2 zoom-in images (2n=10 and n=5) in figure 4D. In figure 4D, both cells are somatic cells – the change in chromocenter number likely reflects a change in the somatic cell cycles but there is no meiocyte and no post-meiotic cell on the 2 zoom-in images provided here. There is also no evidence that one of the two cell has reduced ploidy content. Since the technique described by the authors is intended to test promoter activity in meiocytes, it is thus essential to accurately differentiate meiocytes from somatic cells. Unfortunately, Figure 4 shows no clear evidence for presence of meiocytes. I suggest the authors to include a chromatin dye - meiotic chromatin is very distinctive and more structured (with formation of the meiotic chromosome axis) that somatic chromatin. Page 10 and Table 2: It is surprising that most promoters from known meiotic genes give no signal. What meiotic stages were used for the analysis? How are the data comparable and how can we accurately assess the sensitivity of the technique if we cannot clearly state the stage of meiosis? This can easily be resolved by adding a chromatin dye to the tissue preparation. If some of the preparation had immature germ cells then the data presented in Table 2 would be inaccurate and not showing promoter activity in meiosis. It is important that the authors address this major point of concern and demonstrate that the analysis was done on meiotic cells at the same stage (ideally prophase I since the authors used promoters from protein-coding genes important in prophase I of meiosis). Chromatin-stained prophase I of meiosis are very distinctive from later stages of meiosis or from somatic cells and the analysis will be more straightforward. Figure 6: I don’t see the rational for not adding a scale bar for each image. The entire figure is unclear and there is no explanation in the text to help me understand the figure. The data presented here seems to have limited interest and doesn’t add more support to the conclusions drawn by the authors and therefore the figure could be removed. Page 11. The VirD5 expression system is supposed to test promoter activity in meiosis – as suggested throughout the text and in the title. However, in my opinion, this system tests promoter activity during plant life cycle (reproductive) but it will not give indication on cell specificity. The authors acknowledged this limitation in the discussion (p14). The system is based on the reduction of plant fertility, but many reasons could cause this phenotype other than defects in meiosis: defect in the tapetum, post meiosis defects, pollen or ovule viability defects…and therefore, I would describe the system as a method to test promoter activity in floral tissues, irrespective of the cell type. Page 11 “unexpected for pSMC1, which is more or less a meiosis specific promoter based on available gene expression data”. This is not entirely accurate. SMC1 is a well characterised core component of the cohesin ring complex and is expressed in every cells. There are substantial published data studying smc1 mutant phenotype showing pleiotropic effects. This raises some concerns on the validity to use the expression data for the work presented here. Table 3: Comparing ratio of expression is not informative – the authors should report values of expression for meiocytes and somatic cells separately. What is the definition of reduced fertility? The authors need more clarity here. Is it a quantitative or a qualitative assessment of plant fertility? Page 12 “ quality of seeds” - what does this mean? The authors should use more technical words. Page 12 “ all positions in the silique … seeds”. The authors should use a more quantitative methodology. The observations should be better described for the all section on “VirD5 expression under control of meiosis specific promoters pZYP1A and pSPO11-1” and the claims made by the authors lack scientific support. I suggest the authors to count the number of seed-set per silique “As the flowers did not show any obvious…” The authors cannot exclude an effect downstream meiosis. A lot of meiotic promoters are active in pollen and because the analyses of pZYP1 and pSPO11-1 specificity in Figure 5 and Table 2 are inconclusive, we cannot rule out this possibility “pSPO11-1 is likely to be a very meiosis-specific promoter with at most …” This is a vague statement with no scientific support. What about the implication of other cell types in the reproductive system? “Pollen production as well as viability were indistinguishable from wild type plants…”. This data suggests that male meiosis is normal, meaning that this technique is not suited to specifically assess gene expression in meiocytes. “It might have been that female gametogenesis was partially distorted but further experimental …” This is quite elusive. The authors are claiming to develop a technique to test for promoter activity in meiosis specifically. Unfortunately, it seems that the VirD5 system isn’t specific to male meiosis. The authors should investigate female meiosis if they want to demonstrate that their technique can actually be used to test for meiotic promoter activity. Figure 8 is vague. The technique used for Figure 8A is arbitrary. The authors could analyse the data using a quantitative methodology, e.g. seed set per silique, silique length, variation between samples and plants, statistical test... Figure 8B: I don’t understand what the interest is to present this figure. If the authors want to show that the seeds have different sizes, it is not apparent on the photos. Figure 8C: It seems that the plants on the left panel with virD5 have slightly retarded growth compared to the plants on the right with the GFP system. The authors should comment on this observation, which may suggest that pSPO11-1 isn’t meiotic specific. Page 13 “ We have described two novel strategies to … expression in meiocytes” The authors need to provide more scientific evidence to support this claim for the reasons mentioned above, or re-phrase their claim - e.g. virD5 system could be used to assess floral expression specific while the GFP-based method could be used in complement to assess for cell type specificity Page 14 “ GFP foci localized to the pericentromeric … ploidy determination” – This statement is not entirely accurate. Centromeric clustering can reduce GFP centromeric foci without changing ploidy level. Page 14”GFP signals in meiocytes could … progenitor cells” – This sentence is not clear and need some clarifications. 