 Overall: This is an important contribution for the discussion around the regulation of cannabis in Thailand. However, the paper has several major problems and should be thoroughly revised. Point-by-point: The abstract uses causal language (“Cannabis does appear to not cause community conflict or crime”), which is inappropriate given the study design and sample. "cannabis use […] has been associated with outbreaks of illegal drug use” is absolutely not a finding of this study and should be removed altogether. I am not sure if cannabis use still has the steepest increases globally or if cocaine is leading. In any way, the most recent UNODC World Drug Report should be cited. The second sentence is not logically connected to the first, as medical use is legal in many countries and thus not driving illegal use rates. I would recommend to distinguish between recreational and medical use instead. “In addition, among employed workers, those using illicit drugs (including cannabis) are more likely to be fired”. I imagine this is more due to the legal status rather than attributable to cannabis use. It should be stated whether Kalasin is renowned for illegal or legal, i.e. medicinal, cannabis cultivation. It is unclear what kind of patients were included in the study. Were they admitted to hospital because of cannabis use problems? What kind of diagnoses did they meet? The term “cannabis users” seems inappropriate, at least for the smaller sample of 45 persons, as they all perceive to be addicted to cannabis. It is unclear how many of the original sample have been asked to participate in the in-depth study. Refusal rates should be reported. “Laypeople” should be defined. I suppose this means a general population sample of non-users? It is not specified how healthcare personnel was recruited. "symptoms […] of cannabis use” is incorrect and leads to a medicalization and stigmatization of use per se. See also comment above if the study refers to users or persons with CUD. The content of the diary should be specified in more detail and the length of assessment is currently missing. It is not clear to me how exactly the burden of disease, i.e. DALYs, were calculated. An example and reference for calculation should be given. It is not clear to me how exactly economic losses were calculated. What was the reference for calculating losses (e.g. no illness/always working)? I suggest to align terminology with the health economics literature, referring to direct (e.g. medical) and indirect (e.g. productivity losses) costs. Also, state that intangible costs were not assessed. I understand that a wealth of information was collected in the study and it is hard to summarize all data analyses but this section is really slim and insufficient, making it impossible to reproduce this study. I don’t understand what data were collected from community leaders and healthcare professionals. How were they analysed? Generally, I am missing estimates of uncertainty for all results. Further, I would recommend to add descriptive tables for each section (demographics, health, economics, social). An average of 1g per use occasion is quite unusual for Western countries. If available, please state the average THC content in available cannabis products in Thailand. A “mean loss of 0.78” is not clear and should be specified. Interestingly, …” This should be removed as it is judgemental and actually, before the background of evidence regarding gateway drugs, not surprising. As extensive data on medical records were collected, I would expect more data presented in the paper, at least in a form of a descriptive table. For the economic impact section, the corresponding time frame and the specific sample (all 261 or 45 participants) should be explicitly mentioned. It should be reported how many of the persons had how many legal problems/encounters in which time frame. This would help to contextualize the “economic losses”. If baht are converted to USD, the year of date of conversion should be mentioned. The stigma results cannot be interpreted if no reference was given (e.g., mean point, range, results for other conditions/risk factors). Also, how can a stigma scale be an indicator for addiction? This should be removed altogether: “This indicates a moderate level of addiction.” "The study analyzed the effects of cannabis use and found that cannabis is not a gateway to the use of other additive drugs”. No, this was not the aim of the study, nor was it really investigated. This sentence is misleading and should be removed. Also, this finding (if it was a real finding) is not in contrast to a large body of research on this topic. Citing the findings from Lev-Ran regarding risk of depression among cannabis users seems out of context. It is not clear why this study was cited here. Instead, results of the study should be discussed in context of the literature. 