This article describes a new package, BiocWorkflowTools, that is designed to allow authors to write a manuscript in a single R Markdown file and then easily submit the manuscript to both F1000Research and Bioconductor, two platforms with different submission requirements. The goal is to reduce the risk that versions of the manuscript published in both places will begin to inadvertently diverge. The package addresses an important and somewhat general problem in scientific publishing, which is how to keep multiple versions of a published article in sync through the revision and publication process. The article is well-written and describes the use of BiocWorkflowTools clearly. I have several major and minor comments on the article. These mainly request clarification or expansion of the points made in the manuscript, and none should stand in the way of the article’s acceptance. Major comments As the article is brief, it does not provide instructions for the many associated steps that could be necessary to use the package, such as how to structure an R package, set up an Overleaf account, write in Markdown, write in LaTeX, and use git (both locally and remotely). It would seem reasonable, though, to assume that the target audience for the package will already have these skills. While I understand the problem that the package is attempting to solve, I might also question the wisdom of a publication strategy that requires this package at all. That is, I question whether it’s a good idea, even with this package, to attempt to duplicate nearly identical content across two platforms. I can see the value added by having an article published on the F1000 platform, but is the value of being able to execute the embedded code blocks really worth the trouble of duplicating the entire article on Bioconductor? As an alternative, although it would take more effort, what about having Bioconductor scrape the HTML from F1000 (or finding a way to access the article text in a structured format) and extract code blocks when the manuscript occasionally needs to be executed? This would add burden on the Bioconductor side but would allow authors to only worry about a single public document. I’m curious as to why the package developers chose to go through LaTeX and Overleaf for F1000 submission rather than the Word route (e.g., by converting R Markdown to Word and then having authors submit the Word version to F1000). I would be slightly concerned that involving another third party (Overleaf) increases the potential for the package breaking in the future due to changes to the Overleaf API, Overleaf’s default package list, the LaTeX packages themselves, F1000’s relationship with Overleaf, etc. In comparison, the DOC/DOCX format is relatively stable. I was more enthusiastic about the Overleaf workflow until reading all of the caveats and warnings surrounding the appropriate approach to making revisions in Overleaf, and how that can cause the very problems the package is designed to prevent. Would it be possible to add a function to the package that would automatically check for synchronization between the F1000 and Bioconductor versions of an article (this would likely involve web scraping as mentioned above)? If the two versions did go out of sync, it will likely be very difficult to detect that divergence. Does the package correctly handle all of the issues described in the abstract in the conversion from Markdown to LaTeX, including “floating figures, cross-references, literature references, and author affiliations”? How does this package work under the hood? In particular, is pandoc a dependency and can this package be understood as a kind of pandoc wrapper that handles the special cases listed above? Minor comments There is an incorrectly written Markdown link that is currently appearing as “[Bioconductor website] ( www.bioconductor.org )” - I believe the leading “http://” will be needed for this to render properly as a link. Awkward wording - “Ideally submission of a workflow is to both Bioconductor and F1000Research” could be “Ideally a workflow is submitted to both…” There appears to be a duplicated line that appears both inside and outside of a code block: “ BiocWorkflowTools::uploadToOverleaf("MyArticle") ” Do I understand correctly that the F1000 editors will make comments in an R markdown file that appears on Overleaf, but then expect revisions to occur in LaTeX? This seems to be an unusual setup, just confirming that it’s correct. 