Using the example of murine ketohexokinase (Khk), the authors present an analysis of the limitations of a current alignment-free approach (Salmon) to isoform-level quantification using RNA-seq data. In particular, using publicly available data sets, primarily from the Mouse BodyMap project 1 , the authors show that transcript quantification using Salmon is highly sensitive to the specified reference transcriptome. These results are corroborated using qRT-PCR measurements of relative isoform abundance across several mouse tissues included in the study. The authors apply two approaches to modify the commonly used GENCODE annotations for Khk to obtain improved estimates of isoform abundance using Salmon. First, the authors consider removing an annotated transcript, Khk.RI, with low support in unique exonic regions. Second, the authors modify the original annotations by trimming all 5' and 3' differences between isoforms. The authors show that with these two procedures, the resulting isoform estimates are more consistent across library protocols and across experiments - comparing against data from a separate study of mouse tissues 2 . The advantage of removing weakly supported isoforms is in line with previous work which showed the benefits of prefiltering isoforms for false discovery rate control in studies of differential transcript usage 3 . The conclusion is the need for "manual curation" of transcript annotations to improve quantification by current alignment-free approaches, and no general approaches are provided for improving all annotations. This is fine, as providing general guidelines (aside from careful review of isoform annotations) does not appear to be the purpose of this article. Overall, the paper provides an interesting and detailed analysis of a single gene that complements the growing literature on challenges in isoform-level quantification with RNA-seq. However, a few issues should be addressed before the paper and the analysis can be considered complete. These issues and a few other minor points are described below. Major Issues It appears that all gene-level analyses were carried out using gene count tables obtained using the QoRTs software, presumably based on the original ("naive") GENCODE transcript annotations. However, as one of the references cited by the authors points out 4 , isoform-level quantification provides improved estimates of gene expression over simple count-based approaches. I am curious to see how the Salmon-based estimates (using tximport) of gene-level expression 1) compare with the QoRTs count tables, and 2) change with modifications to the transcript annotations. While the modified annotations appear to improve isoform-level estimates, it is also important to verify that they do not reduce the accuracy of gene-level estimates. This would further confirm the "reliability of gene expression", as described by the authors. In the analysis of Salmon-based isoform quantification results, the authors claim that "inspection of the junction reads and coverage tracks revealed discrepancies between quantification estimates and expected results for several tissues." How were the expected results determined? From the text, this appears to be based on visual inspection of the coverage plots. However, per-base coverage can be tricky to visually interpret due to biases in RNA-seq data, e.g. sequence specific bias and fragment-level GC bias 5 . Ideally, the definition of "expected results" should be made more concrete, e.g. using a metric such as the expected bias-corrected junction coverage as in Soneson et al., (2018) 6 or quantification of exon coverage as in Figure 1C. Regardless, the wording should be updated to more clearly state what constitutes "expected results" and how they were determined. While the authors claim that "differences in 5' and 3' end annotations between all isoforms ... were not reflected on our coverage tracks," this does not appear to be true. In fact, there appears to be a clear difference in TSS coverage between tissues (Figure 3B). Notably, differences in 5' coverage appear to correspond to differences in coverage of the Khk.Skip splice junction (in agreement with GENCODE annotations). Additionally, clear TSS coverage differences were also observed and noted in the exon-level count analysis (Figure 1C), further supporting the presence and importance of TSS differences. The problem appears to be a mis-annotation of the 5' start site for the KhkC isoform (see Figure 1C where liver and kidney, two tissues with high KhkC preference according to RT-qPCR analysis, show significantly lower coverage in alternate start sites E01-E03). In light of these observations, the decision to completely trim all 5' and 3' differences seems rather extreme, and referring to the trimmed annotations as a "correction" of the gene models may not be accurate. Especially since such a trimming would result in the complete loss of the differential 5' behavior discovered earlier in the manuscript. This is particularly important as others have shown that start and termination site differences are the primary sources of isoform differences across human tissues 7 . More justification and careful discussion of the limitations of this general trimming procedure are needed. Rather than a "correction", this appears to be a particularly aggressive modification that works in this setting because all isoforms differ by more than just the trimmed 5' and 3' regions (and not because "differences were not reflected on our coverage tracks", as stated in the text). In modifying the GENCODE annotations, the authors use two steps. First, the removal of unexpressed transcript annotations, and second, the trimming of 5' and 3' differences. Figure 4D-F shows that simply removing the Khk.RI isoform from the annotations actually reduces the agreement between the two data sets, while additionally trimming 5' and 3' ends appears to greatly improve agreement. Have the authors considered how estimates change by applying the 5' and 3' trimming procedure without removing the Khk.RI transcript from the annotations? From the current analysis, it is unclear how much removing Khk.RI is improving the final result (with trimming), because these changes are not additive. While details are included for the Khk A/C-/- negative control mice, details on the non-control mouse tissue samples used for RT-PCR and qRT-PCR analyses are missing. How were these samples obtained and matched with the publicly available Mouse BodyMap RNA-seq data? This should be described in the Methods section. Minor Issues The authors claim that alignment-free transcript quantification methods have "provided the possibility to quantify each individual transcript", and that "this task is often impossible to complete using traditional count approaches." However, several methods for transcript quantification predate alignment-free methods, including some referenced later in the same section (Cufflinks, casper, FlipFlop), among others (RSEM, eXpress). It is also unclear what is meant by "often impossible." The wording in this section should be clarified. It is unclear what "one common approach" is referencing at the beginning of the second paragraph describing differential gene expression (DGE) analysis. This is particularly jarring as the previous paragraph ends with noting the challenges of studying "complex events such as splicing or isoform usage switch". DGE analysis does not address these questions. The authors claim that "DESeq2-tximport and sleuth [incorporate] estimates of inferential variances obtained during the quantification". While this is true of sleuth, I do not believe this is true of DESeq2-tximport. If it is, an appropriate reference should be added (none of the currently cited references describe this feature). Additionally, the reference linked to DESeq2-tximport (reference 22 in the article) 8 describes benchmarking several DGE methods to scRNA-seq data, and is a primary source for neither DESeq2 nor tximport. The more relevant reference would seem to be (reference 20 in the article) 4 which describes the tximport software package. It is unclear what is being referred to by "these configurations", when claiming "no systematic evaluation of the impact of these configurations has been conducted." The figure referenced in ".. hardly any detectable expression of the transcript (Figure 2B ...", should be "Figure 2C". It would also be helpful if the exon ID from the figure (E012) was also included in the text for easier reference. Description and axes of Figure 3C,D should be corrected to reflect the fact that KhkA and KhkC estimates are actually (KhkA + KhkA.C) and (KhkC + KhkA.C) estimates, as described in the text. In the Results section, "junctionSeq" should be stylized "JunctionSeq" for consistency. Throughout, "Genecode" is probably meant to be "GENCODE" (or "Gencode"). 