This paper presents a study of different simulation methods to investigate different modification of dCMp in base pairs or dsDNA and their influence of the surrounding structure. Disparate statement in the abstract please modify/clarify: The same modifications within double-stranded GCG and ACA trimers exhibit rather larger structural effects versus but these leave the overall helical shape of DNA essentially intact. larger changes but DNA shape of helix intact? Please clarify statement in introduction: Fascinatingly, such modifications may be heritable despite not affecting DNA sequence, although the mechanism(s) by which this could be achieved are currently unknown. In respect to enzymes (e.g. DNA methyltransferase) known to transfer methylation from parent to daughter strands? Please enhance figures for clarity. A: Fig 1: numbering of atoms, full name of modifications, example GC WC base pair geometry and info on parameters role, rise twist etc. B: Fig. 2-5 7: please keep coherent direction of sequences e.g. GC/GC (5) in Fig. 2 vs Fig. 4 GC/CG, or coherent naming of modification: Fig. 2 no indication which nucleotide is modified, Fig. 4: C, Fig. 5: (5-mC), if mis-understood please clarify. C: Please give more detail in each of the Figure caption (e.g. construct, reference structure Fig. 7). D: Fig. 7: what is the reference along with experimental values for methylated C are the values shown here the X-ray structure values or the X-ray Structure values optimized with QM/MM for the WT? if it is the optimized data, than I suggest to add the experimental data uncorrected as well. It is difficult to estimate the significance of the changes in structural parameters between different cytosine modifications or different simulation methods, as there are no errors/standard deviations are presented. I would suggest using a set of X-ray/NMR structures with the same sequence and/or modifications to create a standard deviation for the different parameters to give the analysis more significance (than I can estimate if a difference of 0.03 is of importance or not: Formyl has a larger effect overall, lengthening N3H1-N1 and O2H2-N2 H-bonds and hence reducing binding by over 3 kcal/mol. Difference in h-bond length from wtC is 0.025 and 0.049, respectively seems very small, but if all GC wc bp are within of 0.01 distance, this would be significant). Important for: Table 12 as well important for Fig. 2-5 7, please adjust. Describe structural/distortion findings in structure/sketches. E.g.: largely due to a strong H-bond between the HO of hydroxymethyl and O6 of guanine (HO = 1.770 for a better understanding of how the structures are supposed to look like. Formality: p5 first sentence Following Zubatiuk et al .37, should be Following Olson et al .37, OR Following Zubatiuk et al . 14 , More information on the Methods and Materials would be appreciated: E.g. How extensive where the simulations/optimizations? What were the energy cutoffs?... 