I have been asked to comment on the opinion article ” Grand challenges for global brain sciences ”. I was not present in the meeting at Johns Hopkins in April 2016, which provides the basis for the report, but at the follow-up meeting at Rockefeller in September 2016, and in the meeting at United Nations in February 2017. The reason for this global initiative is the fact that great investments in neuroscience have been made through primarily the Human Brain Project of the EU, the US Brain Initiative, and the Japanese Brain Mind Initiative. In addition, there are advanced plans in a similar vein in several countries, including China, Korea, and Australia. The report argues for collaboration between the different initiatives, and it would seem clear that one should strive for complementarity between the initiatives. Essentially, what would seem important is to create a collaborative spirit, rather than a competitive mind set. The conclusion as presented is that the different projects chosen should be feasible in a 10-year perspective, be significant in the context of basic and clinical neuroscience, an inclusive , that is involved as many research communities worldwide as possible. With a global perspective it is clear, that the human and infrastructure capabilities vary markedly in different parts of the world. It may be worthwhile to consider that some aspects of neuroscience (like computational neuroscience) can be conducted even under conditions when advanced experimental equipment is not available. The members of the Johns Hopkins meeting ended up supporting three main challenges (original text in italics), as summarized below: ”Challenge 1: What makes our brains unique? Both within and across species, brain structure is known to exhibit significant variability across many orders of magnitude in scale, including Anatomy, Biochemistry, Connectivity, Development, and gene Expression (ABCDE). It remains mysterious how and why the nervous system tightly regulates certain properties, while allowing others to vary. Understanding the design principles governing variability may hold the key to understanding intelligence and subjective experience, as well as the influence of variability on health and function.” I suppose the title infers that the question of what makes the human brain unique in comparison with that of other vertebrates should be in focus. What appears central in this context is the capacity to acquire language, because this allows us not only to interact regarding what goes on at a given moment, but also to discuss what happened many years ago, or different plans for the immediate or distant future. This possibility is something that other primates and mammals cannot enjoy (in some species, there is a complex behavioral repertoire for communication that can be individualized, but it is far from the human language). We can, however, assume that the neural circuits involved in motor learning in mammals have been tinkered with to provide this novel skill to produce the different words as in speech, and not unlikely there may have been a gradual development of this skill on the evolutionary line from the chimps to humans (Cro-Magnon). The language capability has been extended through the ability to transmit information in the written form, a critical addition for transmission of culture. Another aspect is the human cognitive ability to reason, which is unmatched among vertebrates. The many different areas mentioned in the quote above seem to include almost any type of neuroscience, rather than what makes the human brain unique. I believe focus is needed. “Challenge 2: How does the brain solve complex computational problems? Brains remain the most computationally advanced machines for a large array of cognitive tasks - whether navigating hazardous terrain, translating languages, conducting surgery, or recognizing emotional states - despite the fact that modern computers can utilize millions of training samples, megawatts of power, and tons of hardware.” The human brain is unique in many aspects, but at the same time, we must realize that many of our fellow vertebrates are much more skillful in a variety of tasks. Consider for instance a bird navigating back to its nest of last year in the Northern hemisphere starting near the South Pole, the motor skills of a cheetah hunting for a prey, or an owl hunting down a mouse when it is pitch dark, a monkey swinging itself from branch to branch in an arboreal environment, an eagle identifying a prey from very high altitude, or a dog sniffing for detecting explosives. In understanding the neural bases of these complex behavioral skills, a variety of animal models will be useful. They are interesting in their own rights, but they may also unravel the neural bases of similar mechanisms in humans. What may characterize the human nervous system is the versatility in inventing novel skills like those of a piano virtuoso or juggler or just writing in long hand. The astounding energy efficiency is another unexplained fact – the brain with its billion of cells does only demand some 30 watts or so. ”Challenge 3: How can we augment clinical decision-making to prevent disease and restore brain function? Psychiatric and neurological illnesses levy enormous burdens upon humanity: impairment, suffering, financial costs, and loss of productivity.” Clearly, the whole medical area is important, and no less than one third of the costs for health care in Europe are due to diseases of the brain, whether psychiatric, neurological, or geriatric in nature. This entire field is of course of crucial importance, and any solution to the many chronic diseases will of course be a gift to mankind. Consider for instance the possibility that we would find a therapy for Alzheimer’s in an early stage, or treatment of MS or Parkinson’s! However, also for this challenge no 3, there is a lack of focus. To summarize I find these different challenges to represent very important aspects of basic or clinical neuroscience, but on the other hand, the areas are formulated in so broad general terms that they actually represent the larger part of the current research panorama. This would mean that the initiatives would primarily provide additional research support for neuroscience in general. Progress results, however, often from focused initiatives regarding particular functions of the brain or disease mechanisms. The current initiatives in Europe, the US and Japan have so far mainly focused on developing tools and infrastructure for research. This can be important in itself, but it is only when these tools are used for research that scientific progress is made. It would therefore be important, in the reviewer’s mind, that a set of crucial and solvable scientific problems will become in focus for the Brain initiatives in a ten year perspective.