In this study, Grabski et al. use molecular docking techniques to define a second binding site for the LasR autoinducer molecule, 3OC12-HSL. The researchers use several computational platforms to confirm that 3OC12-HSL binds to a "bridge" domain that links the ligand binding domain and the DNA binding domain in LasR. I am no expert in computational modeling or docking. I have some familiarity with the tools used in this study and I do not find them particularly compelling in "this new finding", especially calling what they do "machine learning." Otherwise, the methods were quite detailed and well-written. The authors have some factual errors in their introduction. They seem to imply that there are three LuxI/R QS systems in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. That is not the case. They entirely omit the PQS system in their introduction. Furthermore, it is not entirely clear why they focus on HCN in the introduction. They never come back to it and it is not the focus of the study. It seems irrelevant. During the introduction they mention that LasR requires its AI to fold, function, and dimerize. Next, they state they're interested in studying LasR in the monomeric state. There is no evidence that LasR exists as a stable monomer on its own, let alone plays any functional role. Inexperience with docking simulations aside, it's particularly intriguing to discover that there might be a second AI binding site. The statistics seem fine. Docking a hydrophobic molecule with a protein that contains a hydrophobic patch will result in a positive result. That doesn't necessarily mean that the interaction occurs in nature. Furthermore, the primary binding site for 3OC12-HSL is a mixture of hydrophilic interactions with the lactone head group and hydrophobic interactions with the acyl tail. The residues defined as the second binding site do not appear particularly hydrophilic to account for stabilizing the lactone head group. How do the authors account for this discrepancy? Additionally, there is no hydrophobic "core" that stabilizes the tail in its entirety. Simply put, I think there is too much solvent exposed surface on 3OC12-HSL for this binding to occur. Can the authors compare the canonical binding site to the secondary binding site in this regard? Furthermore, what role does this second binding site even play? LasR has been purified in the presence of excess 3OC12-HSL and the ratio is 1 LasR:1 AI. How do the authors reconcile this? There needs to be additional biochemical or cell-based assays performed to a) show that this second binding site actually exists and is not an artifact of the limitations of molecular docking and b) determine what its potential role is. It would be an interesting exercise if the authors performed similar docking experiments with other LuxR-type proteins with their partner AI. Would they get the same results? While I am sure the data are sound, I am not convinced of its relevance or importance in the context of LasR signaling. There needs to be some other data to prove that the second binding site is biologically relevant. 