Graphically representing coordinate-based chemical spaces requires some type of dimensionality reduction. One method involves the use of similarity matrices treated as data matrices that are subsequently subjected to principal component analysis (PCA). The first two or three PCs are then used as a basis to graphically depict the chemical space. Although this approach works reasonably well, the size of chemical spaces that can be treated is somewhat limited, since the PCA transformation requires diagonalizing a matrix whose dimension is equal to the number of molecules in the chemical space of interest. The work of Naveja and Medina-Franco seeks to overcome this limitation by building a lower dimensional representation of chemical space in a stepwise manner using “backwards” or “forward” procedures. While the method has the potential for accomplishing their goals, it does not in my estimation provide a sufficiently rigorous test of the approximations that are the foundation of their approach. For this reason additional work needs to be done before their method can be applied with confidence. My objection is based on the authors’ use of the first 2 or 3 PCs as the ‘gold standard’ for representing of the entire chemical space, and as a basis for all subsequent comparisons of the approximate chemical spaces. I would at least like to see what percent of the total sample variance is accounted for by these PCs. If it is an insignificant amount, then approximating these PCs by whatever method will not produce a sufficiently accurate model of the chemical space and their model will have to be improved. The true ‘gold standard’ is the original set of column vectors in their data matrix from which the PCs are obtained. This will produce the ‘true’ distance between ‘molecular points’ in the full dimensional chemical space, but because of its very high dimension computing distances in the original chemical space can be a problem. An alternative is to carry out the PCA and choose a larger subset of PCs (say 6 or 8) that do account for most of the sample variance and then use these in the correlation or error analysis. 