The paper by Masengi et al. reports that periodic hypobaric hypoxia up-regulates cytoglobin and neuroglobin levels and affects AChE activity in the brain. The study is potentially interesting but needs extensive revision to reach the level of acceptance. Major criticism : The model used cannot be referred to as an “intermittent (hypobaric) hypoxia”. In fact this is periodic (or repetitive) hypoxia. Intermittent hypoxia is a mode when lasting hypoxia is interrupted by brief episodes of normoxia, and this phenomenon is widely studied worldwide. The mode of ascending the altitude looks puzzling: very fast elevation to a height about 10 km (speed is about 1.5 km/min that can itself produce many side-effects), and strange dynamics of the whole procedure. The feasibility of such model must be proved and explained to the reader. The authors refer to unpublished PhD thesis of Mulyawan (2012), as well as to the poster at The 1st Asian Researcher Symposium at the Universitas Indonesia-Depok, that cannot be accepted as reliable justification of the model. Neither the negative effect of single exposure nor the protective action of the repetitive exposures was demonstrated or even convincingly cited. The only reference to unpublished PhD thesis of Farhan (2016) reporting some cognitive improvement is not enough. Interpretation of the results needs much attention, e.g. no statistic differences with control are seen following AHH for Cygb and Ngb but authors write: "In this research, Cygb and Ngb expressions of AHH group were decreased compared to normoxia". Similarly, no differences in Cygb and Ngb expression where detected between IHH2x and IHH3x, therefore it cannot be interpreted as “especially IHH3x”, etc. Methods section, page 3, “After treatment…” - It is unclear at what time after hypoxic exposures the tissue samples were obtained. In case if the samples were taken immediately after hypoxia (that is 1 h from the onset of hypoxic trial) it is possible that it is not enough time to see the changes at the level of proteins. This might account for no changes revealed after single HH episodes (termed AHH). In this case it is a methodological failure. Minor questions: Fig. 5 is redundant; it litters the article and should be removed. It adds no information. Some concern arises regarding the data on AChE activity and their interpretation. It is incorrect to conclude on the changes in cholinergic system based only on the parameter examined. We would recommend to additionally examine the AChE localization and its isoform composition. A rate of synthesis (ChAT activity) vs. degradation (AChE activity) processes should be also kept in mind. In addition, AChE performs actions other than degradation of Ach, e.g. is involved in cellular adhesion processes which play roles in neuroplasticity and neuroprotection. The language style and grammar should be thoroughly edited. 