This paper by Parrinello et al. , presents the experience of applying the Italian version of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement’s Global Trigger Tool (GTT) for screening for adverse events (AEs) to a random sample of medical records for hospital discharges from June 2015 to June 2018 for all 44 public hospitals in Sicily. The authors have done a nice job of describing their overall experience with the GTT and focused on the quantity and type of triggers which helped identify adverse events. There were a few issues where some further explanation would clarify the methods and results, and aid the reader in evaluating the contributions of this paper. In addition, there were a couple of minor editing points: In my first reading of the paper, I was confused by Table 2. It is not clear how a trigger could be associated with AEs more often than it is detected. This happened with C03, C04, C08, etc. Table 3 presents some of the same information, but labels the second column as AEs with triggers. To evaluate the effectiveness of GTT as a screening tool, it is useful to see both what percent of records with a specific trigger had an AE as well as how many AEs were associated with that trigger. The authors should clarify in Methods how they identified AEs (role of physician, why record without a trigger was reviewed) and clarify whether results they present are based on the count of AEs or the percent of records with AEs (or both). I’d recommend both, as in Table 1. The first paragraph of the results states that 18,008 records were reviewed, but only 14,706 were analyzed. The authors should explain why the records were excluded, to show they did not bias the results. A flow chart might help. They also state that 7 CRs had AEs without triggers. My understanding of the GTT method is that only records with triggers are reviewed for AEs. Please explain how these AEs were found. The first paragraph under “Rates of triggers” in the discussion, which should be moved to the Results section, refers to significant differences. The method of testing these statistics should be added to the “Statistical analysis” section of the Methods. There were several typos or minor errors: P3, Methods, Review team: 71-person team (?). Table 1, lines 2 vs. 4 and lines 3 vs. 5: not clear what the differences are. How do we get different %’s? Figure 1: style of sensitivity line in graph does not match that of label. Table 5: Procedure complication has an asterisk, but no explanation. Figure 2: typo (EA) in 3 rd label. P9: surgery-elated (?). After reading the manuscript, it appears that there are two main questions that can be answered from the results: How does patient safety in Sicily, based on the GTT, compare to other published studies? Can we learn anything from the analysis of the triggers that can help us improve the review process? The first question is addressed in the discussion (page 4). Adding a confidence interval to the reported rate from this study (6.6%) would clarify that these hospitals are as good or better than other reported rates. The most important conclusions I would draw from the trigger analysis is that few AEs were identified by isolated triggers and many isolated triggers are not associated with AEs. Although not highly useful for identifying AEs, some isolated triggers may be direct measures of “near misses”. I would restructure the results and discussion to emphasize these points. Overall, this is a good description of a broad-based standardized implementation of the Global Trigger Tool. The authors have presented suggestions for making improvements to the method. 