The article shows an analysis of the available biological data on the 400 compounds of the Malaria Box set trying to understand if there is any correlation between favorable parasitological properties and undesirable unspecific or toxicity aspects. Most of the data have been retrieved from Van Voorhis et al., 2016. Some of these data have been produced by GSK and this reviewer is one of the co-authors. Statistical analyses reveal some correlations that would allow prioritization of phenotypic hits based on the most desirable antimalarial compound profiles. Reviewer finds conclusions very interesting specially those related to the potential misleading information provided by malaria assays carried out at high concentration of compound. Principal Component Analyses shows strong correlation between toxic effects in human cells and antimalarial activities produced at the highest compound concentration, suggesting these antimalarial effects not being specific for parasites. Identification of a single principal component capturing most desirable properties of malaria box compounds is an important result and could be the basis to rank compounds in larger datasets. There are some additional points that could help to improve current version or be considered for potential follow ups. Author describes the most desirable properties for novel antimalarial compounds but comment that how these properties are linked to each other is not clear. However most of them (speed of action, activity against different stages of Plasmodium, propensity to select for resistance, etc) are strongly influenced by antimalarial target. So, mode of action (MoA) should be a clear link among the different properties and compounds displaying similar MoA should show similar properties. Reviewer agrees that pharmacokinetic aspects of antimalarial compounds (e.g. long half life), are structure based and should be much less related to antimalarial MoA. Despite there is still a lack of understanding on the antimalarial targets of phenotypic hits there is already some information at this regard. I suggest author to include in the analysis current knowledge on mode of action to identify those targets providing the most desirable antimalarial properties. This would be specially interesting if the analysis is expanded to larger datasets. Conclusions based on resistance evolution should be put in the context of the small number of compounds with available results. Larger sets of data would be needed to confirm this trend. Nevertheless reviewer agrees with poly-pharmacology and general toxicity as two of the main properties that negatively influence selection of resistance. 