Dr. Pawan Kumar has performed simple yet and interesting experiments trying to understand a fundamental assumption in the field of DNA biophysics. However, the following are the questions I would like to post to the author for further clarification. A common methodology that is employed during plasmid preparation is denaturation by NaOH followed by renaturation with acetic acid. The experiments performed in this article seem to be reproducing the same and is on expected lines. The reference of a basic textbook such as TA Brown's Gene Cloning should be provided. Enzymatic digestions performed in this study are done in the presence of NaOH in a number of cases, where the pH of the solution would be ~13 going by the concentrations given by the author. At this pH will the enzymes HindIII, S1 nuclease and Exo1+AP function at all? Since, the bands observed in these gels in the presence of NaOH is used as an observation to support the hypothesis of the study. This is a concern that must be addressed by the author. In Fig 1d, the author claims that S1 nuclease digests single stranded DNA in the right most lane (7th from left, 1st lane ladder) while double-stranded remains intact. Going by this argument, why hasn't the enzyme chewed up the NaOH denatured DNA (hmP19) band in the 6th lane? Additional point is that, the gel isn't capable of providing the information of what is the nature of the hmP19 band. It could very well be that the tertiary structure of the puC19 is altered in the presence of NaOH with Watson-Crick pairs remaining to a significant extent forming something like a super-supercoiled state of DNA. The assumption that hmP19 is a single stranded state seems a little far fetched with only gel based assays. One thing that I am unable to wrap around is that, if the two single strands are indeed not paired by Watson-Crick rules, then what is the author suggestion regarding the re-annealed DNA? How are they bound together? In similar line, it would help if the author gives some plausible models on what could hold the strands together that might pave way to more experiments. Minor comments: Please keep the units of concentration constant across the manuscript (some places use molar while other places use normal). If Greek letters could be input, I would strongly recommend have them placed in the right places (for instance, DH5alpha) 