The authors present a study looking for predictive factor of blood loss following PCNL from a single institution for 85 patients over a 1-year period. It’s interesting data in that while most relevant published studies were carried out retrospectively, this study is prospective. The primary endpoints were changes in hematocrit level and blood transfusion requirement over an early postoperative period. Overall, the paper was written concisely with a good methodology to track blood loss level. I would recommend some revision enumerated below: General comments Besides grammatical errors, there are some misspelled words. Abstract In the Result, a percentage of intra and postoperative transfusion should be 2.3%, not 23%. It may be helpful to add a conclusion to the abstract. Introduction No specific comments. Material and Methods Were all patients included in this study consecutively? How was stone burden assessed by means of imaging? Was it measured from CT-scan, plain film, or IVP? How was a hematocrit level measured? Was it from a full blood draw or just fingertip needle sticks crude measurement? What was an algorithm of decision for perioperative blood transfusion in this study? Did the authors make a judgement based on a “specific” cutoff point of the most recent blood count (at 12, 24, 36, and 72 hours after PCNL) or make a decision subjectively? There should be a systematic methodology in this issue because it significantly affected transfusion rate and volume. Results How many patients were excluded from this study because of a conversion to open procedure? Were they converted from profound intraoperative bleeding? What were a mean BMI of patients, and distribution of hydronephrosis in this series? The authors have mentioned in the Introduction that they were risk factors for blood transfusion flowing PCNL. What was a distribution of renal access (upper/middle/lower/multi-tract) in this study? Did number of renal access tract affect blood loss or transfusion rate? In a multivariate analysis of variables and blood loss, was stone burden (p = 0.037) the only one factor that remained statistically significant? This data was not shown in Table 3. What were other variables included in the multivariate analysis and why did the authors include operative time (p 0.05) in this model? Discussion The authors mentioned a hematocrit cut-point of 30% from a Turkish study. Did the authors use the same cut-point for transfusion in this study? Transfusion rate in this series was relatively high (12.9%) and the authors have demonstrated a significant correlation between stone burden and blood loss. Could this high transfusion rate cause by a larger stone burden? This data (mean stone burden) was not shown in the manuscript. What is a clinical benefit of the mathematical equation to predict blood loss preoperatively? Could we use it to obviate blood request in some patients? Miscellaneous In Table 2, it may be more understandable to order presenting symptoms by percentages. In Dataset 1, why did the authors perform PCNL in some stones of 5 mm 2 size. Is it more reasonable to treat them with ESWL or flexible ureteroscopy. 