Han et al. suggest the creation of a moral growth mindset scale, which could make a significant contribution to the growing literature on growth mindset. The initial validity and reliability of this scale appears sound, and the inclusion of moral growth mindset (MGM) to the literature base seems evident. Despite the promise of this scale and the concept it captures, the article, as written, has some room for improvement. Most notably, the items themselves may benefit from further revision, more information is needed, especially on the various types of validity discussed in the article (e.g. convergent, divergent), and the writing could be clearer and more concise throughout. Detailed responses: Lit review One piece missing here is an argument for the significance of this scale. Why is moral growth mindset an important concept to measure? How does this measure add to existing literature (and existing measures on growth mindset + morality?) Were items for this scale taken from related scales (growth mindset?) Study 1 Elaborate on the “Implicit theory measure.” Be sure to say 1-2 sentences about this to help us understand its significance to the current study. Participants How were participants compensated? Class credit? Gift card? No compensation? (Ok, later in the next paragraph you mention class credit – I would mention in the first paragraph that participants were offered class credit to participate). To help clarify each portion of the study and make it easy for readers to find the information that wish, I would add a heading of “Procedure” that begins with the “Participants received a link to the qulatircs survey…” Analysis What is “underlying data” and where is it located? From the final sentence of your analysis section. Study 2 “In study 2, we tested THE correlation between…” (Add “the” to sentence). You mention the SONA system and how participants selected studies here – make sure to also include this recruitment information in study 1. Additionally, here you include information about the order of survey scales and demographics, which is also not in study 1. In general, there is different information here than in study 1 – I would align these participant sections to include the same relevant information. I would also, again, separate this into a clear “participants” section and a clear “procedure” section. Additionally: How long did it take participants to complete surveys? Were any attention check items included? Measures While these measures look great – we need to understand their inclusion. In the literature review portion of this article there should be discussion of each construct and why/how you expect it to relate to moral growth mindset. Why are these good choices for convergent validity? You mention that further details are available in “extended data” but I don’t see a way to access this. Is all the relevant information explaining the connection of these scales to moral growth mindset provided there? Additionally, did you test for divergent validity? Content validity? Construct validity? If not, why? Ok, some indication of a test for discriminant validity is presented in analysis, but this should be listed with the other measures above. Similarly, more information is needed here about why you expect this to be divergent from moral growth mindset. Discussion 1 st sentence: “We developed and tested….from youth participants.” These participants were emerging adults, correct? Not youth? I would elaborate heavily on this first paragraph. What does it mean that moral disengagement was negatively correlated with MGM? What does it indicate if MGM and growth mindset were discriminant? As this is a measure development paper, I would include a richer discussion of what you found and what it indicates for each type of validity. I’m not sure what you mean here in sentence two “In fact, the previous studies that developed and tested measurements for the mindset with diverse domains…” What is “the mindset”? Do you mean, that tested other types of domain-specific growth mindset? There is a lot of information about previous studies coming up here that should also be in the introduction/literature review section. This would be great to include so we know what you are expecting before the study is run. Then, here in the discussion, you can tell us if your predictions came out as expected or not. Paragraph 1 and 2 here are a little confusing. Be sure to start each paragraph with a general sentence that indicates what you found. Then, discuss each of your results that provides evidence for your statement, and conclude with a sentence that indicates to us the importance of these results. It feels like there are too many concepts included in each paragraph, and the writing is a bit confusing throughout. Last paragraph “However, there are limitationS” (missing s). Items These items all feel a bit too similar – Each asks if morality can or cannot be “improved.” Did you consider other items with different word choices? For example, even “You can always become a more moral person with better character.” Or “It is possible to grow in your character and morality.” These items are so similar that it feels hard to argue any differences between them. Additionally, if possible it’s always best to include simpler words over more complicated ones. For instance “substantially” could easily be “a lot” and “considerably” could also be “a lot.” More complex words tax the participants a bit more, and may make the sentences more difficult to digest, especially for those with lower readings levels or from less educated backgrounds. General notes There are a few places where the writing could be condensed or the use of alternate terms would improve ease of reading. For instance, an example of condensing would be: in participants, “Participants were recruited from an undergraduate subject pool. The pool consisted of students who were enrolled in educational psychology classes” could be condensed to “Participants were recruited from students enrolled in educational psychology classes.” A for instance of somewhere where alternate terms would be benefitial would be in: Results, “First, all consistency indicators indicated…” Instead of using “indicator/indicated” here I would recommend “First, all consistency indicators revealed…” Or, in the spirit of condensing/being more specific, I might suggest: First, the measure demonstrated at least acceptable reliability according to both cronbach’s alpha values and test-retest reliability.” Look for these types of instances throughout the paper with an eye towards condensing repetitive language and becoming more specific. 