In this opinion piece by Alonso, the hypothesis that animals in very colorful environments such as coral reefs, should not evolve cryptic coloration due to the impossible requirements of the myriad colorful backgrounds is proposed. Alonso also hypothesizes that animals that have putatively escaped predation pressures due to exaptations (such as the strong beaks of Macaws and the fast speed of hummingbirds) also will not rely on camouflage for protection. Most of the ideas presented here are hypotheses that have been presented before by Poulton in the late 1800's and Cott in his seminal book on animal coloration published in the 1940's. The field of animal coloration is deserving of a revisit to these ideas, however, I believe the current article needs more logical evidence before it can be accepted as a framework by evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration. The article is conveniently broken into two main hypotheses: 1) Hyper-visible World; and 2) Carefree World. The hyper-visible world needs much more support from previous research before being considered further. There are many examples of animals that use camouflage in coral reefs. A major issue with this article is that the author does not make distinctions between background matching and disruptive coloration, both of which are camouflage tactics. This article can be greatly strengthened by including the tradeoffs of background matching and disruptive coloration. Background matching is unlikely to occur in coral reef fish that are highly vagile, however, one would predict that fish that move around in a very heterogenous environment (e.g. a coral reef) would evolve coloration that obstructs the outline of the animal as well as impeding the judgement of speed by a potential predator. The author needs to add to this opinion to include this distinction as well as include this into the figure. Another concern of the hyper-visible world hypothesis is the assumption that animals will evolve camouflage before any other type of coloration (e.g. social and/or sexual signals). Alonso states that the diversity of flamboyant coloration is a Darwinian puzzle since strong selection pressures from predators should have selected against bright, conspicuous coloration. However, Alonso disregards one of Darwin's most influential books, The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex, in which Darwin describes how gaudy individuals can receive a fitness benefit from attracting mates. Of course, there are now many more hypotheses explaining gaudy appearances in animals ranging from mimicry to social communication. The author needs to address these other hypotheses and explain under what conditions the hyper-visible world will mask these needs for bright coloration. As for the second hypothesis, the Carefree World, this needs much more development and the author must cite empirical research stating that the animals of interest (e.g. the Macaw and hummingbirds) are not under predation pressures. The conclusion that Macaws are exempt from predation due to their strong beaks and claws seems premature without studies testing this. A study by Burger and Gochfeld 1 show that Macaws had many anti-predator behaviors that have evolved to reduce predation from eagles and hawks. Furthermore, personal communication with two experts in the field of hummingbird coloration, Melissa Meadows and Richard Simpson, have informed me that hummingbirds are predated upon by mantids and cats. Thus, I am reluctant to agree with Alonso's opinion on the carefree world as it is currently written. It is not beyond reason that some animals may have evolved bright coloration due to a lack in predation, I just think the current argument needs more corroboration. The concluding remarks are welcomed as Alonso includes the discussion of sensory drive and I think that sensory drive is very important in the topics discussed here, however, I don't think that sensory drive is a result of a carefree world or a hyper visible world as there are many examples where predators affect the evolution of coloration in animals with sensory drive (e.g. cichlids and guppies). I suggest that the author includes sensory drive into his hypotheses and I also believe that other forms of coloration such as the many types of mimicry, also deserve discussion. I appreciate the figure that the author provided but I have some reservations. First, the figure appears to say that physiological constraints drive the environment, which is confusing to me. Second, the two axes are different levels of analyses and thus the figure is difficult to interpret. The y-axis is physiological constraints, which is a proximate explanation, while the x-axis is the fitness benefit, which is an ultimate explanation. I am not stating that this is incorrect because I agree with the author that both explanations must be met for the proposed hypotheses to be possible, but much more explanation is needed to allow the reader to understand how the different levels of analyses are included. Lastly, I agree with the previous reviewers in that the optics of the water as well as the visual system of the different viewers needs to be incorporated. References 1. Burger J, Gochfeld M: Parrot behavior at a Rio Manu (Peru) clay lick: temporal patterns, associations, and antipredator responses. Acta ethologica . 2003; -1 (1). Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Seymoure B. Reviewer Report For: Evolution of bright colours in animals: worlds of prohibition and oblivion [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :115 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8965.r16149 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-115/v2#referee-response-16149 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 20 Oct 2016 Wladimir Alonso , University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil 20 Oct 2016 Author Response I thank the reviewer for his comments and stimulating discussion. Nevertheless, I must confess that when I received this feedback I was drawn to the comment that " Most of the ... Continue reading I thank the reviewer for his comments and stimulating discussion. Nevertheless, I must confess that when I received this feedback I was drawn to the comment that " Most of the ideas presented here are hypotheses that have been presented before by Poulton in the late 1800 ". I would appreciate if the reviewer could provide a more precise citation, as I have consulted Poulton’s 1890’s book “ The colours of animals, their meaning and use, especially considered in the case of insects ” and could not find anything similar to the ideas presented here. If there are other studies (or some part of that book that I missed) containing those, I would greatly appreciate this information as I went into great length to give credit to past studies. The fact that so many brightly colored animals are found in coral reefs has been addressed numerous times since Wallace – but not resolved yet, as discussed by the many authors cited in the introduction of this paper (we can also add this statement from Dr. Gil Rosenthal - one of the top researchers in this field- “ It’s something we don’t, as scientists, fully understand, or come close to understanding ” and “ It’s just such a beautiful part of nature that we don’t have an easy explanation for ” http://onlineissues.wherewhenhow.com/publication/?i=100968p=74 ). In fact, when I found that Cott formulated an idea similar to the “hypervisible word” for birds (but not for coral reef fish, as he believed -in consonance with Wallace’s and most current views- that in coral reefs bright colors have a camouflage role) I promptly cited and credited his insight. Therefore, I would be in fact quite surprised if the hypothesis presented in this manuscript has been published before. The reviewer also states that “ the current article needs more logical evidence before it can be accepted as a framework by evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration ”. I am struggling with this suggestion and what was meant by “logical evidence” in this context. I believe (and so do the other reviewers) that the framework presented is a useful one for guiding future research in this area, which in turn may provide evidence to support or refute this conceptual framework. Evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration of mobile fish in coral reef now have another biologically sound and falsifiable hypothesis (and an expanded theoretical framework) that can hardly be ignored - at least until (and if) rejected by enough empirical evidence or some biologic flaw be found in this one. The reviewer comments that “ the author does not make distinctions between background matching and disruptive coloration, both of which are camouflage tactics ”. Background matching is hard to achieve for moving background-matching objects - they would need to perfectly match their background and the background would need to be homogenous; whereas disruptive coloration tends to feature too many surface landmarks (e.g. contours and blotches), which provide perfect tracking cues on moving objects (George Lovell, pers. comm .. For an illustration of the latter principle, please see this video provided by George Lovell https://youtu.be/HEePyENN1HA ). Both mechanisms of attempting crypsis pointed out by the reviewer are therefore not effective for mobile fish in the heterogeneous and unpredictable coral reef environment. The reviewer cites Darwin’s explanation for the role of sexual selection in the evolution of bright color. Of course bright coloration can be beneficial for several biological reasons (species recognition, aposematism, aggressiveness - and of course, sexual selection). Such selective pressures are acknowledged in the current manuscript as the driving force behind the evolution of coral reef fish colors. But such coloring is not the point addressed here. This manuscript addresses the conditions that allow coral reef fish (or species like macaws and hummingbirds) to possess extremely bright colors and patterns (in response to those pressures), which are not seen in most other species of birds (and other many ecosystems apart from coral reefs). I agree with the reviewer that sensory drive is not a result of either a "Carefree World" or "Hyper-Visible World”. In fact, “sensory drive” is mentioned only as a complementary hypothesis related to the possibility of higher rates of sympatric speciation due to better opportunities of recognition when species are “free” from the demands/possibility of concealment. Moreover, "sensory drive" is not relevant to testing the hyper-visible world hypothesis against Lorenz’s or Wallace’s alternative. Therefore, as interesting as other forms of coloration and sensory drive are, there is not much room to follow the reviewer’s suggestion and expand their discussion. Regarding the Carefree World hypothesis, I welcome the presentation of empirical data by the reviewer aimed at challenging it, and I am glad to discuss those challenges. The fact that macaws have many anti-predator behaviors that have evolved to reduce predation from eagles and hawks does not refute the carefree world hypothesis: as anyone who has handled macaws knows, their strong beaks are an extraordinary defense (that most other birds don’t have) against predators - and so the evolutionary pressure for concealment might be relaxed to the point that other selective pressures for conspicuous patterns (sexual, species identification, etc) in terms of body colors (and possibly other features such as their noise vocalizations) have a bigger role than camouflage. But that does not mean that the selection against predators would be eliminated. Similarly, we don’t expect that sexual selection to be absent in animals with camouflage. The observation presented by the reviewer regarding hummingbirds is quite interesting - and I believe a good example where the framework I presented can help to understand the evolution of bright colors. The acrobatic and fast flights and take-offs (together with their tiny size) of hummingbirds make them an unworthy target for most predators in most situations - hence enabling them to live in a “Carefree World” most of the time. Nevertheless, as pointed out by the reviewer, Mantis and cats hunt hummingbirds. But the majority of predation is likely to occur when hummingbirds are feeding in flowers (or artificial feeders), or eggs or nesting hatchlings. In the feeding in flowers circumstances, the mechanics involved (with movement, unpredictable background and highly visible medium) a humming bird is impossible to camouflage. Therefore, in those particular instances what they face are actually the challenges of the “Hyper-Visible World”, where camouflage is simply not possible. And (again using the framework presented in figure 1 of the manuscript) we do have cases for hummingbirds where camouflage is much needed and possible (given the predictability of the background pattern). For example, nesting females who are stationary indeed develop camouflaged patterns. Again, those do not constitute “ ad hoc explanations”, but a framework from which clear predictions can be made and that can be tested both in the laboratory and in the field. The reviewer mentions that “ the figure appears to say that physiological constraints drive the environment, which is confusing to me ”. Such an inference would be confusing! However, the figure – and accompanying text – neither says nor implies this. The figure says “ The “Possibility of camouflage” axis springs from the environmental and physiological constraints of the signal transmission between predators and prey ”. That is, animals can be physiologically constrained (e.g. given the species evolutionary history, the evolution of certain body colors might be impossible), but they can also be constrained due to the characteristics of the environment (as is the case of coral reef habitats for mobile animals). Still regarding the figure, the reviewer comments that “ much more explanation is needed to allow the reader to understand how the different levels of analyses are included ”. The figure summarize and organize the ideas presented in the text under a theoretical framework, while attempting to be as visually-friendly and simple as possible (leaving the detail explanations for the body of the article). As such, the it risks being too dense, but I believe I succeeded in this task. In any case, I would be happy to answer and discuss any particular point that needs further clarification. The last observation of the reviewer “ that the optics of the water as well as the visual system of the different viewers needs to be incorporated ” was addressed in the evolving online discussion in answers to previous reviewer comments, though not perhaps in the main manuscript. In any case, I am glad to add here another reference on this matter which was published after the hyper-visible world hypothesis was formulated, showing that coral reef fish can have excellent vision - in fact even better than human vision ( http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/royopensci/3/9/160399.full.pdf ). This observation adds empirical evidence to the challenges that animals -mainly mobile ones- have in concealing themselves in or against a backdrop of a coral reef environment. I thank the reviewer for his comments and stimulating discussion. Nevertheless, I must confess that when I received this feedback I was drawn to the comment that " Most of the ideas presented here are hypotheses that have been presented before by Poulton in the late 1800 ". I would appreciate if the reviewer could provide a more precise citation, as I have consulted Poulton’s 1890’s book “ The colours of animals, their meaning and use, especially considered in the case of insects ” and could not find anything similar to the ideas presented here. If there are other studies (or some part of that book that I missed) containing those, I would greatly appreciate this information as I went into great length to give credit to past studies. The fact that so many brightly colored animals are found in coral reefs has been addressed numerous times since Wallace – but not resolved yet, as discussed by the many authors cited in the introduction of this paper (we can also add this statement from Dr. Gil Rosenthal - one of the top researchers in this field- “ It’s something we don’t, as scientists, fully understand, or come close to understanding ” and “ It’s just such a beautiful part of nature that we don’t have an easy explanation for ” http://onlineissues.wherewhenhow.com/publication/?i=100968p=74 ). In fact, when I found that Cott formulated an idea similar to the “hypervisible word” for birds (but not for coral reef fish, as he believed -in consonance with Wallace’s and most current views- that in coral reefs bright colors have a camouflage role) I promptly cited and credited his insight. Therefore, I would be in fact quite surprised if the hypothesis presented in this manuscript has been published before. The reviewer also states that “ the current article needs more logical evidence before it can be accepted as a framework by evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration ”. I am struggling with this suggestion and what was meant by “logical evidence” in this context. I believe (and so do the other reviewers) that the framework presented is a useful one for guiding future research in this area, which in turn may provide evidence to support or refute this conceptual framework. Evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration of mobile fish in coral reef now have another biologically sound and falsifiable hypothesis (and an expanded theoretical framework) that can hardly be ignored - at least until (and if) rejected by enough empirical evidence or some biologic flaw be found in this one. The reviewer comments that “ the author does not make distinctions between background matching and disruptive coloration, both of which are camouflage tactics ”. Background matching is hard to achieve for moving background-matching objects - they would need to perfectly match their background and the background would need to be homogenous; whereas disruptive coloration tends to feature too many surface landmarks (e.g. contours and blotches), which provide perfect tracking cues on moving objects (George Lovell, pers. comm .. For an illustration of the latter principle, please see this video provided by George Lovell https://youtu.be/HEePyENN1HA ). Both mechanisms of attempting crypsis pointed out by the reviewer are therefore not effective for mobile fish in the heterogeneous and unpredictable coral reef environment. The reviewer cites Darwin’s explanation for the role of sexual selection in the evolution of bright color. Of course bright coloration can be beneficial for several biological reasons (species recognition, aposematism, aggressiveness - and of course, sexual selection). Such selective pressures are acknowledged in the current manuscript as the driving force behind the evolution of coral reef fish colors. But such coloring is not the point addressed here. This manuscript addresses the conditions that allow coral reef fish (or species like macaws and hummingbirds) to possess extremely bright colors and patterns (in response to those pressures), which are not seen in most other species of birds (and other many ecosystems apart from coral reefs). I agree with the reviewer that sensory drive is not a result of either a "Carefree World" or "Hyper-Visible World”. In fact, “sensory drive” is mentioned only as a complementary hypothesis related to the possibility of higher rates of sympatric speciation due to better opportunities of recognition when species are “free” from the demands/possibility of concealment. Moreover, "sensory drive" is not relevant to testing the hyper-visible world hypothesis against Lorenz’s or Wallace’s alternative. Therefore, as interesting as other forms of coloration and sensory drive are, there is not much room to follow the reviewer’s suggestion and expand their discussion. Regarding the Carefree World hypothesis, I welcome the presentation of empirical data by the reviewer aimed at challenging it, and I am glad to discuss those challenges. The fact that macaws have many anti-predator behaviors that have evolved to reduce predation from eagles and hawks does not refute the carefree world hypothesis: as anyone who has handled macaws knows, their strong beaks are an extraordinary defense (that most other birds don’t have) against predators - and so the evolutionary pressure for concealment might be relaxed to the point that other selective pressures for conspicuous patterns (sexual, species identification, etc) in terms of body colors (and possibly other features such as their noise vocalizations) have a bigger role than camouflage. But that does not mean that the selection against predators would be eliminated. Similarly, we don’t expect that sexual selection to be absent in animals with camouflage. The observation presented by the reviewer regarding hummingbirds is quite interesting - and I believe a good example where the framework I presented can help to understand the evolution of bright colors. The acrobatic and fast flights and take-offs (together with their tiny size) of hummingbirds make them an unworthy target for most predators in most situations - hence enabling them to live in a “Carefree World” most of the time. Nevertheless, as pointed out by the reviewer, Mantis and cats hunt hummingbirds. But the majority of predation is likely to occur when hummingbirds are feeding in flowers (or artificial feeders), or eggs or nesting hatchlings. In the feeding in flowers circumstances, the mechanics involved (with movement, unpredictable background and highly visible medium) a humming bird is impossible to camouflage. Therefore, in those particular instances what they face are actually the challenges of the “Hyper-Visible World”, where camouflage is simply not possible. And (again using the framework presented in figure 1 of the manuscript) we do have cases for hummingbirds where camouflage is much needed and possible (given the predictability of the background pattern). For example, nesting females who are stationary indeed develop camouflaged patterns. Again, those do not constitute “ ad hoc explanations”, but a framework from which clear predictions can be made and that can be tested both in the laboratory and in the field. The reviewer mentions that “ the figure appears to say that physiological constraints drive the environment, which is confusing to me ”. Such an inference would be confusing! However, the figure – and accompanying text – neither says nor implies this. The figure says “ The “Possibility of camouflage” axis springs from the environmental and physiological constraints of the signal transmission between predators and prey ”. That is, animals can be physiologically constrained (e.g. given the species evolutionary history, the evolution of certain body colors might be impossible), but they can also be constrained due to the characteristics of the environment (as is the case of coral reef habitats for mobile animals). Still regarding the figure, the reviewer comments that “ much more explanation is needed to allow the reader to understand how the different levels of analyses are included ”. The figure summarize and organize the ideas presented in the text under a theoretical framework, while attempting to be as visually-friendly and simple as possible (leaving the detail explanations for the body of the article). As such, the it risks being too dense, but I believe I succeeded in this task. In any case, I would be happy to answer and discuss any particular point that needs further clarification. The last observation of the reviewer “ that the optics of the water as well as the visual system of the different viewers needs to be incorporated ” was addressed in the evolving online discussion in answers to previous reviewer comments, though not perhaps in the main manuscript. In any case, I am glad to add here another reference on this matter which was published after the hyper-visible world hypothesis was formulated, showing that coral reef fish can have excellent vision - in fact even better than human vision ( http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/royopensci/3/9/160399.full.pdf ). This observation adds empirical evidence to the challenges that animals -mainly mobile ones- have in concealing themselves in or against a backdrop of a coral reef environment. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 20 Oct 2016 Wladimir Alonso , University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil 20 Oct 2016 Author Response I thank the reviewer for his comments and stimulating discussion. Nevertheless, I must confess that when I received this feedback I was drawn to the comment that " Most of the ... Continue reading I thank the reviewer for his comments and stimulating discussion. Nevertheless, I must confess that when I received this feedback I was drawn to the comment that " Most of the ideas presented here are hypotheses that have been presented before by Poulton in the late 1800 ". I would appreciate if the reviewer could provide a more precise citation, as I have consulted Poulton’s 1890’s book “ The colours of animals, their meaning and use, especially considered in the case of insects ” and could not find anything similar to the ideas presented here. If there are other studies (or some part of that book that I missed) containing those, I would greatly appreciate this information as I went into great length to give credit to past studies. The fact that so many brightly colored animals are found in coral reefs has been addressed numerous times since Wallace – but not resolved yet, as discussed by the many authors cited in the introduction of this paper (we can also add this statement from Dr. Gil Rosenthal - one of the top researchers in this field- “ It’s something we don’t, as scientists, fully understand, or come close to understanding ” and “ It’s just such a beautiful part of nature that we don’t have an easy explanation for ” http://onlineissues.wherewhenhow.com/publication/?i=100968p=74 ). In fact, when I found that Cott formulated an idea similar to the “hypervisible word” for birds (but not for coral reef fish, as he believed -in consonance with Wallace’s and most current views- that in coral reefs bright colors have a camouflage role) I promptly cited and credited his insight. Therefore, I would be in fact quite surprised if the hypothesis presented in this manuscript has been published before. The reviewer also states that “ the current article needs more logical evidence before it can be accepted as a framework by evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration ”. I am struggling with this suggestion and what was meant by “logical evidence” in this context. I believe (and so do the other reviewers) that the framework presented is a useful one for guiding future research in this area, which in turn may provide evidence to support or refute this conceptual framework. Evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration of mobile fish in coral reef now have another biologically sound and falsifiable hypothesis (and an expanded theoretical framework) that can hardly be ignored - at least until (and if) rejected by enough empirical evidence or some biologic flaw be found in this one. The reviewer comments that “ the author does not make distinctions between background matching and disruptive coloration, both of which are camouflage tactics ”. Background matching is hard to achieve for moving background-matching objects - they would need to perfectly match their background and the background would need to be homogenous; whereas disruptive coloration tends to feature too many surface landmarks (e.g. contours and blotches), which provide perfect tracking cues on moving objects (George Lovell, pers. comm .. For an illustration of the latter principle, please see this video provided by George Lovell https://youtu.be/HEePyENN1HA ). Both mechanisms of attempting crypsis pointed out by the reviewer are therefore not effective for mobile fish in the heterogeneous and unpredictable coral reef environment. The reviewer cites Darwin’s explanation for the role of sexual selection in the evolution of bright color. Of course bright coloration can be beneficial for several biological reasons (species recognition, aposematism, aggressiveness - and of course, sexual selection). Such selective pressures are acknowledged in the current manuscript as the driving force behind the evolution of coral reef fish colors. But such coloring is not the point addressed here. This manuscript addresses the conditions that allow coral reef fish (or species like macaws and hummingbirds) to possess extremely bright colors and patterns (in response to those pressures), which are not seen in most other species of birds (and other many ecosystems apart from coral reefs). I agree with the reviewer that sensory drive is not a result of either a "Carefree World" or "Hyper-Visible World”. In fact, “sensory drive” is mentioned only as a complementary hypothesis related to the possibility of higher rates of sympatric speciation due to better opportunities of recognition when species are “free” from the demands/possibility of concealment. Moreover, "sensory drive" is not relevant to testing the hyper-visible world hypothesis against Lorenz’s or Wallace’s alternative. Therefore, as interesting as other forms of coloration and sensory drive are, there is not much room to follow the reviewer’s suggestion and expand their discussion. Regarding the Carefree World hypothesis, I welcome the presentation of empirical data by the reviewer aimed at challenging it, and I am glad to discuss those challenges. The fact that macaws have many anti-predator behaviors that have evolved to reduce predation from eagles and hawks does not refute the carefree world hypothesis: as anyone who has handled macaws knows, their strong beaks are an extraordinary defense (that most other birds don’t have) against predators - and so the evolutionary pressure for concealment might be relaxed to the point that other selective pressures for conspicuous patterns (sexual, species identification, etc) in terms of body colors (and possibly other features such as their noise vocalizations) have a bigger role than camouflage. But that does not mean that the selection against predators would be eliminated. Similarly, we don’t expect that sexual selection to be absent in animals with camouflage. The observation presented by the reviewer regarding hummingbirds is quite interesting - and I believe a good example where the framework I presented can help to understand the evolution of bright colors. The acrobatic and fast flights and take-offs (together with their tiny size) of hummingbirds make them an unworthy target for most predators in most situations - hence enabling them to live in a “Carefree World” most of the time. Nevertheless, as pointed out by the reviewer, Mantis and cats hunt hummingbirds. But the majority of predation is likely to occur when hummingbirds are feeding in flowers (or artificial feeders), or eggs or nesting hatchlings. In the feeding in flowers circumstances, the mechanics involved (with movement, unpredictable background and highly visible medium) a humming bird is impossible to camouflage. Therefore, in those particular instances what they face are actually the challenges of the “Hyper-Visible World”, where camouflage is simply not possible. And (again using the framework presented in figure 1 of the manuscript) we do have cases for hummingbirds where camouflage is much needed and possible (given the predictability of the background pattern). For example, nesting females who are stationary indeed develop camouflaged patterns. Again, those do not constitute “ ad hoc explanations”, but a framework from which clear predictions can be made and that can be tested both in the laboratory and in the field. The reviewer mentions that “ the figure appears to say that physiological constraints drive the environment, which is confusing to me ”. Such an inference would be confusing! However, the figure – and accompanying text – neither says nor implies this. The figure says “ The “Possibility of camouflage” axis springs from the environmental and physiological constraints of the signal transmission between predators and prey ”. That is, animals can be physiologically constrained (e.g. given the species evolutionary history, the evolution of certain body colors might be impossible), but they can also be constrained due to the characteristics of the environment (as is the case of coral reef habitats for mobile animals). Still regarding the figure, the reviewer comments that “ much more explanation is needed to allow the reader to understand how the different levels of analyses are included ”. The figure summarize and organize the ideas presented in the text under a theoretical framework, while attempting to be as visually-friendly and simple as possible (leaving the detail explanations for the body of the article). As such, the it risks being too dense, but I believe I succeeded in this task. In any case, I would be happy to answer and discuss any particular point that needs further clarification. The last observation of the reviewer “ that the optics of the water as well as the visual system of the different viewers needs to be incorporated ” was addressed in the evolving online discussion in answers to previous reviewer comments, though not perhaps in the main manuscript. In any case, I am glad to add here another reference on this matter which was published after the hyper-visible world hypothesis was formulated, showing that coral reef fish can have excellent vision - in fact even better than human vision ( http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/royopensci/3/9/160399.full.pdf ). This observation adds empirical evidence to the challenges that animals -mainly mobile ones- have in concealing themselves in or against a backdrop of a coral reef environment. I thank the reviewer for his comments and stimulating discussion. Nevertheless, I must confess that when I received this feedback I was drawn to the comment that " Most of the ideas presented here are hypotheses that have been presented before by Poulton in the late 1800 ". I would appreciate if the reviewer could provide a more precise citation, as I have consulted Poulton’s 1890’s book “ The colours of animals, their meaning and use, especially considered in the case of insects ” and could not find anything similar to the ideas presented here. If there are other studies (or some part of that book that I missed) containing those, I would greatly appreciate this information as I went into great length to give credit to past studies. The fact that so many brightly colored animals are found in coral reefs has been addressed numerous times since Wallace – but not resolved yet, as discussed by the many authors cited in the introduction of this paper (we can also add this statement from Dr. Gil Rosenthal - one of the top researchers in this field- “ It’s something we don’t, as scientists, fully understand, or come close to understanding ” and “ It’s just such a beautiful part of nature that we don’t have an easy explanation for ” http://onlineissues.wherewhenhow.com/publication/?i=100968p=74 ). In fact, when I found that Cott formulated an idea similar to the “hypervisible word” for birds (but not for coral reef fish, as he believed -in consonance with Wallace’s and most current views- that in coral reefs bright colors have a camouflage role) I promptly cited and credited his insight. Therefore, I would be in fact quite surprised if the hypothesis presented in this manuscript has been published before. The reviewer also states that “ the current article needs more logical evidence before it can be accepted as a framework by evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration ”. I am struggling with this suggestion and what was meant by “logical evidence” in this context. I believe (and so do the other reviewers) that the framework presented is a useful one for guiding future research in this area, which in turn may provide evidence to support or refute this conceptual framework. Evolutionary and behavioral ecologists studying components of coloration of mobile fish in coral reef now have another biologically sound and falsifiable hypothesis (and an expanded theoretical framework) that can hardly be ignored - at least until (and if) rejected by enough empirical evidence or some biologic flaw be found in this one. The reviewer comments that “ the author does not make distinctions between background matching and disruptive coloration, both of which are camouflage tactics ”. Background matching is hard to achieve for moving background-matching objects - they would need to perfectly match their background and the background would need to be homogenous; whereas disruptive coloration tends to feature too many surface landmarks (e.g. contours and blotches), which provide perfect tracking cues on moving objects (George Lovell, pers. comm .. For an illustration of the latter principle, please see this video provided by George Lovell https://youtu.be/HEePyENN1HA ). Both mechanisms of attempting crypsis pointed out by the reviewer are therefore not effective for mobile fish in the heterogeneous and unpredictable coral reef environment. The reviewer cites Darwin’s explanation for the role of sexual selection in the evolution of bright color. Of course bright coloration can be beneficial for several biological reasons (species recognition, aposematism, aggressiveness - and of course, sexual selection). Such selective pressures are acknowledged in the current manuscript as the driving force behind the evolution of coral reef fish colors. But such coloring is not the point addressed here. This manuscript addresses the conditions that allow coral reef fish (or species like macaws and hummingbirds) to possess extremely bright colors and patterns (in response to those pressures), which are not seen in most other species of birds (and other many ecosystems apart from coral reefs). I agree with the reviewer that sensory drive is not a result of either a "Carefree World" or "Hyper-Visible World”. In fact, “sensory drive” is mentioned only as a complementary hypothesis related to the possibility of higher rates of sympatric speciation due to better opportunities of recognition when species are “free” from the demands/possibility of concealment. Moreover, "sensory drive" is not relevant to testing the hyper-visible world hypothesis against Lorenz’s or Wallace’s alternative. Therefore, as interesting as other forms of coloration and sensory drive are, there is not much room to follow the reviewer’s suggestion and expand their discussion. Regarding the Carefree World hypothesis, I welcome the presentation of empirical data by the reviewer aimed at challenging it, and I am glad to discuss those challenges. The fact that macaws have many anti-predator behaviors that have evolved to reduce predation from eagles and hawks does not refute the carefree world hypothesis: as anyone who has handled macaws knows, their strong beaks are an extraordinary defense (that most other birds don’t have) against predators - and so the evolutionary pressure for concealment might be relaxed to the point that other selective pressures for conspicuous patterns (sexual, species identification, etc) in terms of body colors (and possibly other features such as their noise vocalizations) have a bigger role than camouflage. But that does not mean that the selection against predators would be eliminated. Similarly, we don’t expect that sexual selection to be absent in animals with camouflage. The observation presented by the reviewer regarding hummingbirds is quite interesting - and I believe a good example where the framework I presented can help to understand the evolution of bright colors. The acrobatic and fast flights and take-offs (together with their tiny size) of hummingbirds make them an unworthy target for most predators in most situations - hence enabling them to live in a “Carefree World” most of the time. Nevertheless, as pointed out by the reviewer, Mantis and cats hunt hummingbirds. But the majority of predation is likely to occur when hummingbirds are feeding in flowers (or artificial feeders), or eggs or nesting hatchlings. In the feeding in flowers circumstances, the mechanics involved (with movement, unpredictable background and highly visible medium) a humming bird is impossible to camouflage. Therefore, in those particular instances what they face are actually the challenges of the “Hyper-Visible World”, where camouflage is simply not possible. And (again using the framework presented in figure 1 of the manuscript) we do have cases for hummingbirds where camouflage is much needed and possible (given the predictability of the background pattern). For example, nesting females who are stationary indeed develop camouflaged patterns. Again, those do not constitute “ ad hoc explanations”, but a framework from which clear predictions can be made and that can be tested both in the laboratory and in the field. The reviewer mentions that “ the figure appears to say that physiological constraints drive the environment, which is confusing to me ”. Such an inference would be confusing! However, the figure – and accompanying text – neither says nor implies this. The figure says “ The “Possibility of camouflage” axis springs from the environmental and physiological constraints of the signal transmission between predators and prey ”. That is, animals can be physiologically constrained (e.g. given the species evolutionary history, the evolution of certain body colors might be impossible), but they can also be constrained due to the characteristics of the environment (as is the case of coral reef habitats for mobile animals). Still regarding the figure, the reviewer comments that “ much more explanation is needed to allow the reader to understand how the different levels of analyses are included ”. The figure summarize and organize the ideas presented in the text under a theoretical framework, while attempting to be as visually-friendly and simple as possible (leaving the detail explanations for the body of the article). As such, the it risks being too dense, but I believe I succeeded in this task. In any case, I would be happy to answer and discuss any particular point that needs further clarification. The last observation of the reviewer “ that the optics of the water as well as the visual system of the different viewers needs to be incorporated ” was addressed in the evolving online discussion in answers to previous reviewer comments, though not perhaps in the main manuscript. In any case, I am glad to add here another reference on this matter which was published after the hyper-visible world hypothesis was formulated, showing that coral reef fish can have excellent vision - in fact even better than human vision ( http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/royopensci/3/9/160399.full.pdf ). This observation adds empirical evidence to the challenges that animals -mainly mobile ones- have in concealing themselves in or against a backdrop of a coral reef environment. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Stankowich T. Reviewer Report For: Evolution of bright colours in animals: worlds of prohibition and oblivion [version 2; peer review: 1 approved, 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 4 :115 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8965.r14619 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-115/v2#referee-response-14619 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 28 Jun 2016 Theodore Stankowich , Department of Biological Sciences, California State University, Long Beach, CA, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8965.r14619 In this article, the author introduces a predictive framework for understanding the bright coloration of coral reef fishes using the criteria of need for camouflage and possibility of camouflage. These axes allow fish to be grouped into fish that (1) ... Continue reading READ ALL 