The objective related to Burden and risk factors are clumped with incidence/prevalence, mortality and morbidity and envenomation; may be provided in more elaboration specially risk factor because adverse outcome and death is not risk factor for envenomation. The authors have reported their work appropriately according to the PRISMA-P checklist. Eligibility criteria: It should be made clear that all or part of the eligibility criteria will need to be fulfilled. Risk factor is not properly addressed here and authors has no plan for risk modelling. Risk variables are not clear too. I think more emphasis was given on burden. So more clarification and clear objective about risk factor should be mentioned. Condition: ‘irrespective of how it was diagnosed’- is it, that venomous and non venomous bites will be grouped together which will cause problem in interpretation of the results. Dataset search strategy: It can also include venomous and antivenom as we consider economic burden . Synthesis of result: It is not unusual to get heterogeneous result due to regional variability and low impact article. So how the authors analyse this heterogeneity should be mentioned. Health facility burden (page 3): Usually all/most of the patients of snakebite present at the emergency department unless manifested as chronic condition. Definition/clarity is required on ‘specialist’, ‘higher facility’, ‘compartmental syndrome’, ‘long term rehabilitation support’. How uniformity among the investigators on decision for ventilatory support, dialysis, blood transfusion will be interpreted. How the individual component of data will be collected. Study design (page 4): It would not be wise to have a study having no restriction of ‘year of publication’ to see the burden and risk factors which may change over time. Risk factors: a list may be developed. 2 nd bullet is not clear- snakebite irrespective of envenomation may also be admitted, so admission does not necessarily mean envenomation. Searching other sources: how the authors will identify ‘researchers of repute’. 