The author provides a comment on a recently published article by Raine (2019) which is about a neuromodal theory of antisocial, violent, and psychopathic behavior. Major comments: The author makes two main claims: The first claim is about the insula and cingulate cortex involvement in morality. According to the author, there is evidence that the insula and cingulate cortex are involved in morality based on a meta-analysis in Neurosynth with the word “moral”. It is stated that: “A result from a meta-analysis of 87 studies and 2,806 activation foci that are associated with a keyword “moral” demonstrates that the left insula and anterior and posterior cingulate cortices show significant common activity across moral task conditions (see http://neurosynth.org/analyses/terms/moral/ for further details).” I had a look at the result provided by the link, but I couldn’t see much evidence of insula of cingulate cortex involvement. Maybe there is a voxel or two that overlaps with the left insula and cingulate cortex but there is barely any evidence of this. Also, although I like the program Neurosynth, its data is quite messy because it just automatically scans studies based on a word (in this case “moral”). The algorithm will often make mistakes that can be overcome by a carefully conducted “manual” (i.e., not automatic) neuroimaging meta-analysis. Therefore, I wouldn’t trust a Neurosynth meta-analysis more than a thoroughly conducted manual neuroimaging meta-analyses on the topic. Given that several manual neuroimaging meta-analyses on the topic of morality couldn’t find any evidence of insula and cingulate cortex involvement, I don’t think that this Neurosynth meta-analysis (that barely shows any evidence of insula or cingulate cortex activity) is now the crucial missing evidence that we have been waiting for. The second claim is that the striatum is involved in the morality network. Here the author uses three neuroimaging studies by his own research group. The three studies seem to be based on the same data of around 16 (sic) participants. I don’t doubt that the author is familiar with their own study and that striatum was activated but again, I don’t think this is the convincing evidence to finally claim that the striatum is consistently involved in morality. If the author wants to make the point about the striatum (or the insula and cingulate cortex), they should do a thorough look through the neuroimaging morality literature to argue their case. In short, I don’t think the comment adds much to the literature. Minor comments: 1) circutiries = circuitries 2) recently invented = Neurosynth has been around since 2011 