This is a single-center study assessing self-reported experience, understanding, anxiety and tolerance of colonoscopy in 94 patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The study addresses important issues and has potential practical implications as understanding patients’ experience of the procedure is crucial for service improvement, particularly in IBD patients undergoing repetitive colonoscopies in the course of their diseases. The manuscript is written in a comprehensive way. However, there are some methodological shortcomings of the study affecting the reliability of the conclusions. Major comments: In the Methods section it should be described what kind of sedation (if any) is used in the Center and what is the proportion of colonoscopies involving sedation or anesthesia. This is an important factor affecting patients’ experience. Was the bowel preparation procedure the same in all examined patients? The comparison between two age groups: younger patients (55 years) vs older subjects (≥55 years) is not quite representative. Firstly, due to the different number of patients in each group (76 vs 18 subjects). Secondly, female patients were significantly younger than male patients (39.9 vs 47.1 years, respectively; p0.05). Therefore sex could be a confounding factor in the comparison between these two groups. Were there any differences in patients’ experience between subjects with ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease? It has been previously reported that female patients’ preference for the same sex endoscopists may significantly affect the level of pre-procedural anxiety and overall experience in female patients. It was not addressed in the questionnaire. Additional comments: Please verify the number of patients given in the abstract, because according to the text and Table 1 it should be 94 instead of 98. A written informed consent is usually required in this kind of study. It is said that colonoscopies were performed either by a senior clinician or by a trainee (under supervision). In fact, the endoscopists’ skill and experience could importantly determine patients’ discomfort during colonoscopy. 