 A very useful list and teaching aid but make sure you read the book The Informed Health Choices (IHC) group performs a critical role in creating and regularly updating a framework of concepts that should underpin the decisions that the public make about their health. We can attest to the importance of this initiative having adapted and used some of these concepts in a recent public engagement session on judging the legitimacy of health claims in Australia: ( https://bond.edu.au/researchers/research-bond/research-week-2018/program-and-highlights ). We strongly support the intention of this program and the sentiments that lie behind it. The education of school children is a particularly innovative and important aspect. The recent categorization of a lengthening list of concepts under Claims, Comparisons and Choices is helpful in aiding understanding of principles and placing them in context. Regarding the 2018 update, we raise two general questions about how the key concepts have developed: 1. Did the authors use rigorous methods to develop the concepts? If not, does it matter? 2. Is the overall tone too negative? Can healthy skepticism turn into cynicism? 1. The report is billed as a research article, but the methods used by the authors to develop the IHC concepts are not described in detail. The original set of concepts was based on those identified in the book ‘Testing Treatments’, which itself was a compilation of concepts illustrated by historical examples compiled by the experienced authors. Although the book wasn’t written around a rigorous theoretical framework it is brilliant. It combines key messages (e.g. ‘new is not always better; ‘more is not always better’; ‘earlier is not always better’) with accurate and compelling examples. So, the concepts in the IHC list certainly have face validity. But should the authors have done more? For instance, there is overlap between several of the IHC concepts. Should they have used factor analysis to shorten the list and make it more usable? We think not. They were not designing an instrument to make valid and reliable measurements. Rather, the IHC concepts are a learning resource and their validity has been demonstrated in a randomized trial in children. 2. Our concern about the IHC concepts is the generally negative tone. The framing language is always skeptical and to a degree this is understandable and hard to avoid. We are inundated with claims daily and cannot start from a position of equipoise in judging and acting upon those that are relevant to us. The book ‘Testing Treatments’ documents some of the most important advances in medical science, including vaccination, treatment of heart disease, treatment of HIV and some cancers. As the journalist Nick Ross said in a foreword to the first edition of the book “it warmly admires much of what modern medicine has achieved. Its ambitions are always to improve medical practice, not disparage it.” The IHC concept list as a stand alone document lacks this balance. The underlying tone could be interpreted (wrongly) as ‘nothing works’ and ‘be suspicious of all medical claims’. We believe the authors should look for opportunities to use positive framing for some concepts. The preamble to the list should acknowledge the massive progress made by modern medicine and public health, including large reductions in all-cause and some cause-specific mortality rates over the last 50 years. Much of this progress has been made in small increments that individually might not have seemed compelling, but in summation have been dramatic. In our view the main targets of the IHC concepts should be claims that are intentionally misleading, often made by those with vested interests. There are plenty to deal with. 