Perdigones and collaborators report an interesting clinical case about the association of PNH and G6PD deficiency. However, the timing of the clinical history is not clear and the report is scanty of some relevant clinical/laboratory data. Major scientific points. The Authors should provide the exact timing of entire clinical history: diagnosis; infective episode resulting in the prescription of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole -co-trimoxazole- (which dose?); start and stop of co-trimoxazole ; dark urine episode associated with co-trimoxazole ; start of eculizumab ; time of biological studies. It is extremely important that the Authors provide more details about the timing and the features of the hemolytic attack apparently associated with co-trimoxazole : how long after the start of co-trimoxazole treatment the patient experienced the dark urine episode? There are any objective data at the time of this dark urine episode or the episode has been just self-reported? At the time of this dark urine episode there were any signs/symptoms of an ongoing infective condition? The Authors provide clinical/laboratory details only at one time point, that seems be after the start of eculizumab (how long after?). They should provide such clinical/laboratory details at time of diagnosis, at the time of the co-trimoxazole associated hemolytic attack, at start of eculizumab treatment, etc.: blood count, absolute reticulocyte count, LDH levels (providing the normal range), flow citometry, etc. In PNH patients the presence of red blood cells with partial deficiency of GPI-linked molecules is relatively common. However, the presence of granulocyte/monocyte with partial deficiency of GPI-linked molecules is uncommon: thus, it would be interesting to show the dot plot of the CD59/lineage marker analysis of granulocytes and monocytes of this patient. The Authors, at variance with their starting hypothesis, have clearly proven that in this patient PNH cells express the wild type G6PD B. They provide 2 possible explanations for the co-trimoxazole -associated hemolytic crisis observed in this patient. These hypotheses are interesting but their probability is very low. I suggest that the Authors should discuss a much more likely explanation: this hemolytic crisis was just due to the infective condition that led to the prescription of co-trimoxazole . Minor points In the Introduction the Authors report the classical classification of PNH cells as Type III (completely deficient in GPI anchored proteins), Type II (partially deficient) and Type I (normal display of GPI-linked proteins). However, in the Results they write about class I clone (partial deficiency) and class II clone (complete deficiency) : this is extremely confusing. In the Results the 2 sentences (from We hypothesized that to red cells than would be present in untreated patients. ) seem to suggest that the relative expansion of the PNH (and concomitantly G6PD deficient) red cells following eculizumab treatment could have played a role in the co-trimoxazole associated hemolytic attack. The Authors should rephrase these sentences since eculizumab has been started after the co-trimoxazole associated hemolytic attack. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) is a generic drug name thus it should not be capitalized. In the Results, eculizumab should not be capitalized. The brand name Bactrim should be replaced with the generic drug name. The levels of ROS in the patient red cells should be compared with a group of healthy controls: the comparison with only one control does not allow any conclusion. The Authors should report the concentration of DCF used for ROS detection. 