The article proposed a possible connection between endothelin-1 (ET-1) and thrombospondin 1 (TSP1) based on their mRNA profiles and random clinical observations. Whether the mRNA profile predicts protein expression of ET-1 and TSP1 is still waiting for verification. The role of ET-1 in pathology of cardio-pulmonary diseases such as pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) has been well recognized and thus therapy targeting ET-1/ET A receptor developed. Involvement of TSP1 in clinical PAH received attention till recent years. Isenberg JS and his group revealed that expressions of TSP1, ET-1 and ET A receptors as well are increased in patients with PAH 1 , 2 . Abnormally high level of tissue and circulatory ET-1 is consistently found in all WHO classification of PAH 3 - 5 , suggesting that upregulation of ET-1 is independent of type I repeat domains of TSP1. TSP1 modulates ET-1 and ET A receptor expression via association with cognate receptor CD47 through its C-terminus. This explains the reason why nonselective ET receptor antagonist is effective in managing PAH. It seems that that ET-1 and ET A receptor are downstream of TSP1 but not vice versa, based on currently available evidence. Anatomical knowledge of the myocardial venous circulation helps to interpret persistent deteriorating effect of elevated TSP1 on the cardio-pulmonary system, in addition to its long half-life of approximately 9 hours. The presence of high level of TSP1 in the heart not only exposes the high risk of thrombus, also contribute to the left ventricle heart failure 6 . Based on references listed above, connection between TSP1 and ET-1 under pathologic condition is found exist. The article is suggested to convert to a mini review incorporating these findings along with the mRNA data. Specific comments: Introduction: Link between loss-of-function TSP1 mutations found in familial PAH and Bosentan therapy for PAH is not convincing to support the hypothesized possibility of opposing effect of TSP1 and ET-1. TSP1 can interact with up to 83 ligands/receptors via various domains 7 . Mutation of repeat type I domains of TSP1 only affects its interaction with TGFβ which is not involved in regulation of ET-1 or ET A receptor expression. Information provided by Figure 1 is useful to explain circulation of ET-1 and TSP1 in the cardio-pulmonary circulation; however, it is hard to follow. Does “surplus” mean excess? 