This is a provocative paper that should have high impact. It makes both a scholarly and educational contribution. I expect it to be widely cited and taught. When indexed, it will appear on the syllabus of a graduate class that I teach. That said, I have one major quibble with the paper. First some background. The standard way to teach distributions goes as follows: Normal Distributions arise from adding or averaging variation (as nicely explained here) Log Normal Distributions arise from multiplying shocks Power Law Distribution have multiple causes: self organized criticality, preferential attachment, random walk return times, etc. In this paper, Frank argues that we can connect some power law and log normal distributions to normal distributions by using different unit of analysis. Let’s take the standard story of why tree sizes have a log normal distribution. Trees grow by random rates each year. If rates of growth are proportional, then a tree of size S that has growth rates r(t) will be size S[1_r(1)] [1_r(2)] [1_r(3)] [1_r(4)].. [1_r(10)] In 10 years. If I take the logarithm of that size, it will be additive in the shocks, and thus normally distributed. Frank makes an alternative argument, that there is a natural metric for size, T = d 2 and that this when transformed produces a normal distribution. If d is normally distributed, then d 2 will be log normally distributed. He then makes a similar argument for enzyme reactions. (The tree model is more complicated as he includes a linear term and a log term but this captures the main idea). My quibble with the paper has to do with the difference between a log normal distribution or ( exponential ) and a power law distribution . Power law: y ~ x -a Exponential: y ~e x If you plot a log normal distribution on a log log plot, you get the sort of curvature that Frank shows in many of his graphs. What he is calling power laws would be characterized by many as log normal or exponential. I realize that his more general point is not that the tree size is either log normal or a power law. However, the paper would be much stronger and much clearer if he would make the following changes. Clarify the difference between power law and log normal (including mention of the curve on the log log plot) Explain that many of the “long tails” in biology such as tree size have “long tails” that can be explained using his method that separates the generic causes of the distribution from the particular. He might even separate out the generic and particular in the tree growth so we see why he cannot just use the log normal distribution. Ideally, he would also show how his approach can produce a true power law. I would be remiss to not add that the paper is a model of clarity of exposition and argumentation. 