Irfan et al. have reported on the efficacy of occlusion therapy in severe amblyopia among subjects aged 3 to 35. The authors present a series of interesting, but somewhat surprising results. Most notably the authors conclude that (a) any degree of amblyopia can be resolved with full time occlusion therapy, with almost 100% success even in those aged 13 to 35, in reaching and maintaining 6/6 acuity, and (b) that amblyopia correction is an effective treatment for strabismus, creating orthophoria in almost two-thirds of cases. These findings are potentially groundbreaking, but are so contrary to conventional clinical experience (including experience in the days when full time occlusion was routine), and to the extensive body of prior research evidence (some of which, including the PEDIG study are cited by the authors), that a serious and in-depth evaluation of the scientific robustness of the study methods and interpretation of reported findings is needed. Although it is beyond the scope of a short review such as this to explore the flaws in substantial detail, I will outline in brief, a number of significant flaws in the study methods and interpretation of findings as presented in this manuscript. The study sample is very poorly described. For example, we are not given any idea as to the degree of anisometropia, the type (e.g. accommodative) and magnitude of strabismus, or participants’ past ocular history. Patient history is a very important potential confounder that is not at all addressed in this study. The reader is left clueless as to key factors such as why the participants have been referred to the clinic, whether they have undergone any previous ocular treatment (possibly including occlusion therapy) or whether they have previously worn spectacles among many other unknown factors. The inclusion criteria allow for participation of subjects having “failed” previous occlusion therapy, yet there is no information at all as to how many of such participants were included, or how the investigators deemed that past therapy had indeed “failed”. Without such information, the reader simply cannot be certain as to whether the study participants have true amblyopia, or simply took some time to adapt to new spectacles. The study methodology is certainly unclear, and most likely flawed. For example, the authors state that the optician was masked as to the subjects’ demographics. Quite how an investigator can be masked to patient demographics is beyond me (e.g. a child age 3 versus an adult age 31). Another important aspect is the acuity chart used. Firstly, the Snellen and Kay’s picture charts are inappropriate for amblyopia assessment, but that remains a minor point. The major concern is whether the same chart and series of letters was used throughout the study. The methods describe that subjects were assessed at a minimum of every 2 weeks (and much more frequently for those under 7, such as every 5 days for 4 year olds). VA in the amblyopic eye was assessed first, then in the normal eye. Surely, the failure to randomise charts and letters is potentially a major flaw in the study (the reader must assume that letter or chart randomisation did not occur as it is not stated as a prescribed method). The effect of learning could be truly substantial, with subjects becoming increasingly familiar with the charts and letters at every visit. Despite even the best of participant intentions, such a learning effect would be impossible to avoid and could entirely explain the results observed in older observers. Although the authors dismiss it as not within the scope of their paper, I am unclear as to the reasons why the reported improvements in stereopsis are not explored in detail in the manuscript. Surely, a paper concerned with neural plasticity in older age groups should report on stereopsis when the test has been included in the study protocol. I am further concerned by the authors’ interpretation of the effect of occlusion therapy on strabismus, stating that “ Out of these 82 cases, 51 cases (62.19%) became orthophoric once their amblyopia was fully corrected while only 31 cases (37.80%) needed surgery for strabismus correction once their vision was restored in the amblyopic eye ”. The effect of refractive correction on the reported strabismus is not explored in the paper. Inspection of the amblyopia data provided reveals, as would be expected, a strong relationship between refractive error type and strabismus type (i.e. esotropia mostly associated with hyperopia, and exotropia with myopia). It would seem entirely more likely that the actual reason that strabismus is rendered orthophoric, simply relates to the provision of appropriate spectacles, and not to occlusion therapy success as described. Accommodative esotropia, for example, remains the most common cause of childhood esotropia, and is readily treated with spectacle provision, not requiring surgery. This study simply does not stand up to proper scientific scrutiny. The methods are flawed, the interpretation is inaccurate, and the results are most likely explained away by factors not explored in the paper. I am concerned that this article could potentially create confusion among the general public and possibly even among clinicians inexperienced in the art of evaluating scientific publications.