Comments of the manuscript entitled " A putative antiviral role of plant cytidine deaminases ” . This manuscript reports how plant cytidine deaminases, particularly At CDA1, might contribute to the deamination of Cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) genome, and hence, affect its viral accumulation in plants. The work has merit and seems to be a good contribution. Whereas this potential antiviral response has been assessed in human and animals, virtually nothing is known about this mutagenic activity in plants. The experimental methods are overall solid, and the manuscript is very well-written, clear and easy to follow. The authors first examined which At CDA proteins encoded by Arabidopsis thaliana have an effect on the CaMV mutational spectrum by performing an At CDA overexpression in Nicotiana bigelovii . While results are consistent with the expected AtCDA mutagenic activity, I would suggest to them to describe the reasoning behind performing it in N. bigelovii plants in order to clarify whether there would be any potential host AtCDAs background-noise effect that could affect or not the transient genes activity results. It may not matter, but I have not found the answers to this question within the text. If that is so, I am guessing that results from the mutant analysis spectra could even improve by providing strong results from the AtCDA1 analysis or even some differences to the other AtCDA genes could be found, as consequence of buffering those effects from negative control samples. Secondly, they sought to evaluate the effect of suppressing AtCDAs in transgenic A. thaliana plants on the accumulation and mutant spectrum of CaMV. Here, I am a bit concerned whether the general claim that the authors are making with this study is properly warranted. Considering that all results of this section are only based on the AtCDA1, this seems to overstate the final conclusion and perhaps this can be slightly tempered. I would recommend either to moderate this conclusion (and title) to only the atCDA1 results or to show evidence of the CaMV load reduction when suppressing the expression of the other AtCDAs. This should then be accompanied by the full description of primers and expression patterns of AtCDA2-8 mRNA analysis in the methods section, in addition to inclusion of statistics data of the mutant spectrum in the results section. This could also increase the appeal of the manuscript. In this sense, thinking about the general-nature of the findings, it would be very interesting and nice to read any thoughts/perspectives (in the discussion section) about this cytidine deaminase mutagenic activity in some other plant viruses (i.e. RNA virus), which could be infecting through different replicating strategies. Specific minor comments: - Please, double check this % … 471.43% increase in G to A transitions - Colouring treatments of the Fig 3 is a bit confusing. Please keep that as previous figures. - Table S1: Please, describe that G to A substitutions detected here are shaded in the table. 