The authors describe MetaDEGalaxy, a set of Galaxy tools and workflows for differential abundance analysis of 16S metagenomics data. They have enabled DESeq -a tool designed primarily for RNASeq data- to be used on metagenomics datasets. They provide Galaxy workflows and training materials and a Galaxy server for testing. Furthermore, they have integrated a number of Galaxy tools for visualisation using phyloseq, which is a valuable addition to the existing ecosystem of Galaxy metagenomics tools. Remarks: In the abstract: "Metagenomic sequencing [..] analysis workflows remain immature compared to other fields" This is a strong claim and requires more justification or be made less broad. Metagenomics (and especially 16S metagenomics) tool suites such as QIIME and Mothur have quite well-established pipelines. And end-to-end online analysis portals such as MG-RAST ( https://www.mg-rast.org/ ), MGnify ( https://www.ebi.ac.uk/metagenomics/pipelines/2.0 ), MOCAT2 ( https://mocat.embl.de/ ), META-pipe 1 and others have also been around for some time, and are also user-friendly GUI options. In general, the discussion of existing methods could be expanded. Please describe in more detail how MetaDEGalaxy fits in this ecosystem. In the introduction: "Currently, there is one end-to-end existing metagenomics workflow offering, ASaiM": a. Referring to ASaiM as a workflow may be confusing. In Galaxy, the term workflow has a very specific meaning, and ASaiM is a collection of tools, workflows and tutorials with a common topic, and it includes multiple Galaxy workflows within it. Perhaps refer to these solutions as Galaxy environments or similar, and reserve the word workflows for Galaxy workflows? b. ASaiM is also by no means the only metagenomics workflow available in Galaxy, for example: - GmT : Mothur SOP 16S end-to-end pipelines have been made available as Galaxy workflows previously. 2 - FROGS: Metagenomics pipelines in Galaxy has been previously described. 3 - Other Galaxy environments and workflows such as A-Game, 4 ANASTASIA, 5 or this functional annotation workflow, 6 and several others have also been previously described. While these examples have a different focus than MetaDEGalaxy (i.e. functional metagenomics rather than 16S), the authors make the very broad claim that ASaiM is the only other "existing metagenomics workflow on offering", which is inaccurate. Please consider expanding the discussion of existing work and Table 3 to include some or all of the above. In the results section, please discuss how the differential abundance results obtained with the MetaDEGalaxy pipelines compare to the results described in the Mothur SOP ( https://www.mothur.org/wiki/MiSeq_SOP , e.g. under subsection "population level analysis" of section "OTU-based analysis") Do you determine the same OTUs to be statistically significantly different between the two groups? Explain any differences in results, as well as the added value of your approach over the statistical methods used in the SOP. The Phyloseq wrappers the authors have created do not appear to be available from the Galaxy toolshed currently While I appreciate that the authors have developed Ansible playbooks for the installation of the wrappers, such a custom approach is not recommended practice, and adding the tools to the tool shed will greatly increase their accessibility. One option for this would be to submit the wrappers to the IUC tool repository on github ( https://github.com/galaxyproject/tools-iuc ) where they will be reviewed and automatically uploaded to the toolshed upon acceptance. Minor Remarks: Training materials for the use of the MetaDEGalaxy workflows are available in the form of PDF files. I would strongly urge the authors to consider contributing these materials to the Galaxy Training Network ( https://training.galaxyproject.org ) so that they are more readily available for use by the community. I think that MetaDEGalaxy tutorial would be happily accepted there, and the GTN community can provide support to transform the tutorials into the right format. Since the 4 workflows offered in this manuscript are designed to be run in succession (e.g. workflow 1,2,4 or 1,3,4), have the authors considered creating some full end-to-end workflows, using Galaxy's concept of sub-workflows? A set of Qiime2 Galaxy tool wrappers have recently been made available in the toolshed ( https://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/repository?repository_id=7af460fa907bf4a3 ), could you update he text in the "software comparison" section table to reflect this? Compliments: I really like the visualisation tools you added, and I would love to add a symmetric plot to the existing 16S Galaxy tutorial on the Galaxy Training Networks site if you put the tools on the tool shed! 