The following article claims to raise serious conceptual problems with the standard cosmological model: I have to recommend that the article be rejected. First of all, the discussion section is offensive - as a researcher working on non-mainstream ideas, I can understand the sometimes difficult struggle when challenging the mainstream paradigm. But to suggest that I am recommending rejection in order to protect my career is extremely offensive, when my career in fact relies on challenging the mainstream view. The referee might like to know this before dismissing my rejection as a sign of anything other than scientific invalidity of his ideas. But I agree that it is occasionally possible for articles to be rejected which are actually correct, because the referee is protecting personal interests. This is certainly not as common as the author makes out, and indeed I have had generally respectful discussions with mainstream cosmologists despite viewing the Universe very differently. For such a (hopefully) polite discussion, the author may like to watch this debate: https://www.eso.org/sci/meetings/2020/Cosmic-Duologues.html Regarding the article itself, the main problem is the author has not understood the basics of the Big Bang model in which there is not an explosion in space, but an expansion of space. In this model, the universe is infinite and almost homogeneous at early times. In co-moving co-ordinates, this expansion is cancelled out and you would just see a static Universe. Suppose a flash of light is emitted from every location at the same time. Photons in some region would of course be moving at c, thus leaving through the boundary - but other photons would enter. The number density of photons would thus remain the same in co-moving co-ordinates. There is no inconsistency here. It explains why we expect to measure the same co-moving number density of primordial photons today as there was at the time of last scattering. Regarding the issue of where the surface of last scattering is, the author should simply consider a photon that has been travelling at c for a Hubble time in a straight line. The result is at some distance, independent of direction - so the surface is a sphere. However, this is not a real surface - it is just the locus of points from which photons will later hit the Earth exactly 13.8 Gyr later. At the time of emission, nothing whatsoever is special about material in this surface. The whole sphere may well be much larger than 380 kly, which is somewhat non-intuitive since the age of the universe was (in this model) only 380 kyr then. The author raises an important point about how the Universe was in thermal equilibrium at early times. This is related to the horizon problem, which - as the author points out - is thought to be resolved by inflation. Briefly, the idea is that the Universe was small for an extended period of time, during which it was in causal contact and thus reached thermal equilibrium. The particle horizon then expanded faster than c due to a period of accelerated expansion similar to what we are experiencing now, causing that photons reaching us from different sides of the sky have the same temperature. The author then goes on to unscientifically attack the hypothesis of inflation - indeed, it is well known that this is not confirmed. However, the author does not raise any substantive arguments against the inflation model, and does not propose his own ideas. Of course, if the mainstream idea was that the Universe was 380 kly wide at some time 13.8 Gyr ago and that every location within it emitted photons at that moment (almost) equally in all directions, then it is clear that these photons would be unobservable now - depending on what happens at the edge. However, the Universe is not thought to have any such edge, and is considered to be infinite. It is certainly the case that light emitted from close to us would no longer be observable, so what we see as the cosmic microwave background (CMB) must have originated rather far away, on the surface of last scattering. The longer we wait, the further away this surface is - though it always corresponds to the same moment in the history of the universe. There will never be a moment when there is no CMB altogether (barring absorption of all its photons), because one can always imagine reversing the arrow of time and integrating a trajectory moving away from us at c in a contracting universe. The photon will have some well-defined location at the moment of last scattering, so this point will be part of the surface of last scattering to such an observer. No special reflective surface is required, and indeed no new assumptions are needed at all to explain the observability of the CMB. Of course, explaining its detailed properties remains a challenge given other constraints e.g. the Hubble tension. But the particular criticism of the standard cosmological model raised by the author is completely erroneous. Therefore, this manuscript must be rejected - even though I do consider that the same is true for the standard cosmological model as a whole, which does indeed contain many hypothetical ingredients that I am not at all a fan of have publicly spoken against on several occasions e.g. here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PYVC0VtmpDg 