Please find below the comments to the article “Draft genome assembly and transcriptome sequencing of the golden algae Hydrurus foetidus (Chrysophyceae)” by Jon Brte, Janina Fuss, Kjetill S. Jakobsen and Dag Klaveness. The authors present in the article draft genome data for the chrysophyte Hydrurus foetidus . H. foetidus was chosen because it is a special chrysophyte which is, in contrast to most other chrysophytes, macroscopic, but cells can slide apart under some growth conditions, benthic and thrives under cold conditions in polar and high alpine regions. The genome was sequenced using Illumina and Nanopore sequencing, in addition mRNA reads sequenced with PacBio and small RNA reads sequenced with Illumina are provided. The genome was assembled in a hybrid approach, resulting in a length of 171 Mb and 5,069 contigs with a BUSCO completeness of 77%. DNA extraction, sequencing and assembly generation are described in detail, but some information is missing, which is listed below. Overall, the work is technically sound and should be indexed after minor corrections. Minor comments: Abstract: “We combined this data with, to our knowledge, the first draft genome assembly of a chrysophyte algae”. The data is not combined with the draft genome, maybe it should be “We combined this data to create, to our knowledge, the first draft genome assembly of a chrysophyte algae”. Further, there are two draft genomes listed at JGI for Ochromonas and Paraphysomonas species ( https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/OchCCMStandDraft_FD/OchCCMStandDraft_FD.info.html , https://genome.jgi.doe.gov/portal/ParimpEvaluation_FD/ParimpEvaluation_FD.info.html ). They cannot be accessed without registration, but perhaps they should be cited. Abstract: “...belonging to the phylum Heterokonta.” Recent classification of Eukaryotes (Adl et al 2005, 2012, 2018) 1 , 2 , 3 place the Chrysophyceae into the Stramenopiles which themselves belong to the SAR supergroup. The current classification should be adapted. Abstract: An assembly of 171 Mb was obtained, is this size expected? Is there other data available which suggests this genome size? On the other hand, the k-mer based genome size estimation suggests a much larger genome. Introduction: “multiapproach assembly”, should better be described as hybrid assembly. Culturing of H. foetidus : The introduction mentions plastid reduction and heterotrophy in chrysophyte species. H. foetidus in called alga, so I assume it is phototrophic, but it would be good to state that somewhere explicitly. Otherwise one would wonder if the cultures were axenic. Concerning the sequencing: Was there quality control performed by the sequencing center (RIN values etc.) before sequencing? Which library preparation protocols were used for the different sequencing data? Was the RNA rRNA-depleted before sequencing? What was the average sequence quality before and after filtering? An overview table of all the sequencing data including quality and number of reads/yield should be added. Nanopore sequencing of genomic DNA: “Albacore v2.1.10 (Linux, Python 3.5 version)” Please provide a reference for Albacore. The information that it was run under Linux with Python 3.5 is probably not necessary. Next line: Table 1 is not the correct reference for the sentence. Table 2: It is not described in the text or caption what “_high” and “_low” means. Table 3: The genome size estimation based on k-mers and BUSCO are not described in the methods section. Maybe the GC content could also be added to the table. 