The article ‘The sedentary (r)evolution: Have we lost our metabolic flexibility?’ by Freese and coworkers is an important contribution to solve the huge worldwide problem caused by a dramatic increase of diseases linked to nutrition and life style. The authors describe that during the course of evolution, up until the agricultural revolution, environmental fluctuations forced the human species to develop a flexible metabolism in order to adapt its energy needs to various climate, seasonal and vegetation conditions. During the longest time of Homo sapiens ’ existence, humans’ daily survival was shaped by food insecurity (feast and famine), adaptation to a widespread range of different food sources (biodiversity), abundant daily exercise frequently under fasting conditions (foraging behavior), as well as unpredictable food supply (intermitted fasting), depending on the daily foraging success. The authors underline that the metabolic flexibility safeguarded human survival independent of changes in food availability and food composition. Furthermore the article shows the important and complex interplay and regulation of different metabolic pathways and a very important metabolic switch to the use of ketone bodies and fat oxidation. In the course of evolution, environmental stress forced the human species to develop an extraordinary flexible metabolism with multiple programs to guarantee energy equilibrium. Lipolysis, proteolysis, gluconeogenesis, ketone bodies and muscle-derived lactate as alternative energy substrates for cerebral neurons, provide examples by which natural selection tailored humans to buffer fluctuations in energy supply. Hormons as important key regulators of the metabolism as well as the role of the brain are being described in a very good and understandable way. In addition as a result of persistent psycho-emotional stressors the reaction of the brain concomitant with the changes in metabolism is shown. Furthermore the important impact of a lack of exercise is depicted. Due to this clear description of the metabolic flexibility and the absence of the use of this metabolic flexibility in modern humans following a Western life type, the authors hypothesize that the modern energetic inflexibility, typically displayed by symptoms of neuroglycopenia, can be reversed by re-activation of certain suppressed metabolic programs, which became obsolete in an affluent environment, particularly the ability to easily switch to ketone body and fat oxidation. The approach to re-activate metabolic programs represents an important and a not-well known approach to prevent and treat diseases related to metabolism and life style. Therefore this article is of utmost importance for scientists and clinicians in this field, but also enables individual humans to use the knowledge presented in this article to re-activate the metabolic programs by intermitting fasting, changes in food composition and/or exercises e.g. to activate the program to use ketone bodies and fat oxidation. There are a few terms which should be considered / could be changed to make the statements more clear. Abstract: "In this article, we argue that the metabolic epidemic is largely based on a deficit in metabolic flexibility." The term ‘metabolic epidemic’ should be rephrased e.g. In this article, we argue that the strong increase of diseases related with an metabolic impact is largely based on a deficit in metabolic flexibility. The same should be done for the sentence in the introduction: "In this article, we argue that the metabolic epidemic in the developed world is based on a deficit in metabolic flexibility,…" Page 7 "Adipose tissue, responsible for 60% of all triacylglycerol accumulation, can store large amounts of excess FFA." The Abbreviation FFA is not being explained Page 9 "On a related note, changes in lifestyle patterns have been more successful in the context of a NAFL than pharmacological treatments, whereas exercise in isolation has not been proven to be effective." …the statement ‘whereas exercise in isolation has not been proven to be effective should be explained. The meaning of ‘exercise in isolation’ is not clear. 