This paper gives a good overview of the various and important contributions of ELIXIR-UK both to training in the UK node and to the ELIXIR Training Platform as a whole. It also gives insight in the coordination efforts that are needed throughout the UK to achieve a coherent training infrastructure. Throughout the paper it touches several times upon a major challenge that everyone in training and training coordination is facing, which is the struggle to get sustainable funding in place to ensure continuity and sustainability for the training activities. It will be a waste of time and effort if the training infrastructure that has been built will simply stop after specific projects end. It would be interesting to learn a bit more about the ambition of and opportunities for ELIXIR-UK to achieve a national approach to this sustainability challenge. Is the ELIXIR-UK structure helping to achieve this goal? The ELIXIR Training Platform activities are built by coordinating efforts in all the ELIXIR nodes and as such is a combined effort of many countries. It would be good to make this a bit clearer to the reader, e.g. in the section where the ELIXIR Training Platform is introduced. In addition a reference to https://zenodo.org/record/61411 could be included, which gives detailed background information about the setup of the ELIXIR Training Platform. Here are some of my specific comments and suggestions: There is a mentioning of three ELIXIR flagship portals, but it is not explained which three portals the authors are referring to. This might confuse the reader. Related to the TeSS portal it could be useful to give some insight in visitor statistics and also make the distinction between events and materials more clear, as well as the distinction between future and past events and materials. It should be realized that a large number of the 6000 entries mentioned are related to events that happened in the past. As such TeSS represents an important training archive in bioinformatics, and to my knowledge this is the only portal that offers this kind of information. Related to the ELIXIR-SWC/DC agreement: Lesson development will definitively take place and will be taken up by the ELIXIR nodes, but this not an explicit part of the partnership agreement that is currently being prepared for signing. The agreement contains workshops and instructor trainings. The agreement entails 2 workshops per ELIXIR node, and not 2 workshops per year per ELIXIR node, as is currently stated. The authors could refer to the F1000 paper about the ELIXIR SWC/DC pilot that has now been published. 1 Related to establishing the GOBLET-ELIXIR collaboration agreement it would be good to mention that Teresa Attwood, who is both Chair of GOBLET, and part of ELIXIR-UK, played a major role. Related to the description of the process during WP11 grant writing it would be good to stress that this was a collaborative process of the WP11 leaders and several node representatives. In the section on BioSchemas the training implications could have been described clearer. Further, this section could refer to the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) principles, where BioSchemas mainly addresses findability. 