Nowicka et al. describe a comprehensive workflow for a multi-sample analysis of a mass cytometry data set. They provide methods and guidelines for data processing and quality control, clustering and interpretation/visualization of the clusters. They also describe the application of statistical methods for differential analyses within clusters. The article is clear and well-written, with some opportunities for improvement that we have listed below. Overall, this will be useful resource for people looking to use R/Bioconductor for cytometry data analysis. MAJOR COMMENTS: The principle of pooling samples prior to clustering is important to ensure that the clustering is blind to the sample labels, and thus does not bias the downstream statistical inferences. However, in data sets where the number of cells is highly variable across samples, larger samples may drive the final clustering result. The authors may consider downweighting cells from larger samples during the clustering procedure, to ensure that each sample contributes equally to the outcome. In what scenarios is the NRS useful? In a mass cytometry experiment, the panel is explicitly designed to interrogate markers of interest, so outside of quality control it makes little sense to discard them in the analysis. Indeed, low variance contributions in PCA does not mean that the marker is not relevant, e.g., if it marks a small population. If the expected number of cell types is not known in advance, how many metaclusters should be chosen? In very heterogeneous populations, it is easy to imagine that there may well be more than 20 distinct cell subpopulations. In the discussion, the authors state that "Overall, we expect that as a general rule, including batch parameters (or other covariates) in the linear modeling largely mitigates the problem." This is true to some extent, but will not protect the clustering from batch effects. If the batch effect shifts the intensity distribution between batches, it is possible that a subpopulation in samples of one batch is clustered with the wrong subpopulation in samples of another batch. The counts or median intensities of the cluster are inherently compromised and cannot be fixed by blocking on the batch effect in the model. In other words; when testing for changes in abundance in mass cytometry, the cells are analogous to individual reads in a transcriptomics experiment, while the vector of intensities is analogous to the genic region in which reads are counted. If the batch effect is affecting the intensities, it is analogous to changes in the definition of the genes between batches. The authors mention using observation weights to describe the uncertainty of the median intensities when testing for differential expression of markers. We note that we have also used this approach in cydar, and it seems to work well. For differential expression of markers within each cluster, the differences in size between clusters are largely irrelevant - all else being equal, if clusters are small, the medians should be more variable, and this should be considered by the inference machinery when computing p-values. MINOR COMMENTS: A mention should be made of the fact that fsApply combines the intensity matrices from all data sets; this was not obvious from the code. There are many ways to do hypothesis testing in GLMMs, with options ranging from Wald Z-tests, LRTs and parametric bootstrapping/MCMC. Some words on what glht actually does would be useful. Some of the figure captions could be explained in more detail. For example, the numbers and colouring of the entries of the heatmap in Figure 4 are presumably the median marker intensities, but this should be explicitly stated. Some minor typographical errors: " (Angerer et al., 2016))", "use the flowCore [package]." The PBMC data set is described as "12 different stimulation conditions", but presumably only one was actually used (BCR/FcR-XL). This could be clarified. 