 Summary The paper is concerned with the method of feature selection using the R package MXM. The package appears to be fairly versatile in the sense that it can handle a huge variety of types of data. It can be very useful for applied researchers and, at the very least, it is another tool in the toolbox for the applied statistician. I believe that the paper it will be a useful addition in the literature. However, I found difficult to read/understand in places. For example, is the MXM a package that only includes methodology that has been developed by the authors or does it include methods that have been developed by other researchers too? Either way is fine, but it would be helpful to clarify. Another major issue for me is that the paper is flooded with acronyms that I believe most users will be unfamiliar with. It would improve the paper's presentation significantly, if there is some explanation (a couple of sentences per method would suffice) about each of them. Below are some more specific points to consider: Abstract It it not clear when one first reads what "b) it contains a variety of regression models to plug into the feature selection algorithms;" means. c), "equivalent" in what sense? "it includes memory efficient algorithms for high volume data, data that cannot be loaded into R" - "it includes memory efficient algorithms for high volume data that often cannot be loaded easily into R"? Introduction "and easier to understand and interpret;" - "and often easier to understand and interpret;" "small portion" - "small proportion"? It would be good to Table 1 to have the totals. "These algorithms have been tested and compared with other state-of-the-art algorithms under different scenarios and types of data." Any references? I find hard to read the "Comparisons of MXM’ FS algorithms with other FS algorithms" because there are a bunch of acronyms used that I (and presumably other readers) don't know what they mean; it would be good to say a few words about what each algorithm is doing. "anecdotal" - preliminary? It would be good to say what is g-OMP (as well as the other methods) doing? Methods In the example "Survival (or time-to-event) target variable", a survival model is fitted and the MXM package is used and its output is presented, but I am unclear as to what is the objective (in terms of the data analysis) and what does the output mean. The above comments applies to the above datasets; it is crucial that reader knows what is the statistical objective first, and then to explain what the outcome of the package means. page 11: "gOMP on the other" - "gOMP on the other _hand_" ? 