The study “Dopamine synergizes with caffeine to increase the heart rate of Daphnia” done by Aman Kundu and Gyanesh Singh, investigates the effect of dopamine, caffeine and alcohol on Daphnia’s heart rate. Also the combination of caffeine and ethanol was tested. The rationale of the paper was to use the Daphnia’s heart rate to test treatment(s) of cardiac disorders in high consumers of coffee or alcohol. The importance and objectives of the study are well explained and methods are well described, although some aspects of this manuscript should be really improved and corrected. The statistical Analysis applied is not correct; consequently I have some doubts if the results would be the same applying a correct statistical analysis. Authors used t-paired test to evaluate a dose-dependence curve in which more than two concentrations are compared. I suggest to authors apply One-Way ANOVA followed by a post hoc test (for example, Newman-Keuls). Additionally, authors indicated that the experiments were done two times. I understand that this means that a duplicate of each experiment were performed, is it correct?. If this is the case, a mean SD should be used to compare data. Please, correct. Another important issue is about the synergism. Author concluded that dopamine synergizes with caffeine to increase the heart rate of Daphnia. But, synergism should be declared if a sub-threshold concentrations of DA and Caff is used. If not, only a potentiation is achieved. Please, correct the terminology of synergism or other experiments should be done using the combination of sub-threshold doses of DA and Caff. It would be very important to add positive controls to test Daphnia’s heart rate, for example, noradrenaline or atropine, both are prototypical substances that increase heart rate in vertebrate animals. In the conclusion: in addition to the purpose of this kind of assay, I wondering if Daphnia’s heart rate assay could be more suitable as a biomarker of toxicity instead of serve as a screening test of different drugs to alter Daphnia’s heart rate? 