This manuscript authored by Murphy et al. is a study protocol for a first-in-human use of a new device called "Polynerve“ for nerve gap bridging. Its primary objective is to describe a clinical trial to evaluate the safety and tolerability of use of a new polymer biomaterial nerve conduit to repair a sensory digital nerve gap of the hand. Secodarily, the trial aims at measuring the efficacy of this innovative conduit as an alternative to surgical repair, autologous grafting and other allogenic materials to bridge small gaps of digital nerves. Overall, the study design is well-structured and the rational of utilizing this new method in a clinical pilot study is clearly explained and outlined. The introduction gives an overview of important impact socio-economic of nerve injury for the affected individual and the societal interest of finding alternative methods to restore continuity in nerve defects and minmize functional and productive loss. Here, reference 3 is quoting a study on the impact of median and ulnar nerve lesions in the forearm, a very severe subset of injury which may yet not be representative for the majority of over 9000 nerve lesions occuring in the UK annually. The authors provide a detailed overview of the requirements of a valuable alternative method avoiding the disadvantages of current treatment methods, such as autologous grafting or commonly used tubulization devices, including non-resorbable and resorbable nerve conduits. In addition, the authors may also mention the modern options of nerve allografting as an emerging method, especially for smaller sized gaps of sensory nerves, e.g. as recently described by Mauch JT et al. (see reference 1 1 ). Nevertheless, the discussion clearly explains the rational for using the new material in the planned trial by the specific advantages of Polynerve as a blend of poly-captrolactone (PCL) and poly-lactic-acid (PLA) promoting neural regeneration and Schwann cell alignment to guide the process of axon regeneration by lumen consisting of a special micro-grooved architecture. The further paragraphs about the exact design and setting of the study including consent and intervention with a detailed participant timeline and known risks of the procedures are thorough and concise. The methodology regarding data collection and management and statistics are very solid, as well as the description of oversight committees and dissemination. The protocol is completed by a short discussion which summarizes the expected superior qualities of this new biopolymer nerve conduit and the main goals of a promising future study on nerve regeneration. 