Thank you for the opportunity to review this SWAT. I am in favour of publishing negative results as well as positive results, so my reason for rejecting this SWAT is not because the findings are negative. I wish to be clear on that. This was a SWAT within the SCIMITAR+ trial. The purpose of the SWAT was to establish if 10 cash + 10 voucher would increase retention rates when compared to 10 voucher only. SCIMITAR+ was a smoking cessation trial. The authors conclude that contingent financial incentives did not statistically significantly increase rates of face-to-face follow-up completion within the SCIMITAR+ trial. In the background section of the abstract, you describe the SWAT as “…versus no contingent financial incentive” which is misleading. There is a contingent financial incentive because you have a 10 voucher as standard. I presume it’s contingent on them turning up to the appointment? I had to go to the body of the paper to ensure I had the correct interpretation. You should describe the SWAT more accurately as “to establish if 10 cash + 10 voucher would increase retention rates when compared to 10 voucher only” and change this in the main body of the paper also. I struggled with the design of this SWAT and what the investigators hoped to achieve by it. I don’t think the primary outcome was suitable to measure what they intended. The conclusion drawn in the abstract is unrelated to the primary outcome. The purpose of the SWAT was to look at retention. The participants were eligible for the SWAT if they reached the SCIMITAR+ 6-month follow-up. I’d like the authors to comment on this in relation to their SWAT. It could be argued that if they were already coming for the 6 month follow-up they were motivated to continue regardless of the extra financial incentive. It seems like 100% of those contacted for the 6-month follow-up turned up to their appointment. Therefore, 100% were retained. I don’t see the point then in making the primary outcome contingent on the CO breath measurement and was not surprised there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups. Your secondary outcome, the proportion withdrawing after the contact would be more relevant. This is supported by the fact you used the proportion turning up for the appointment as your concluding statement. Comparing two incentivised arms at 6 month follow-up doesn’t appear to be the best use of the money. What would have been interesting to find out is if the additional money at 12 months would make a difference to retention? Perhaps let the intervention arm know at 6-months that at 12 months, in addition to the voucher they would get 10 cash. Then you could establish if the additional incentive was effective. I would have liked to know what you told the comparator group when you phoned them to come to their 6-month visit. Did you tell them they were getting a 10 voucher to give a CO. Did you make them aware of what the intervention group were getting or did you tell them about the SWAT at all? The participants were already incentivised with the 10 voucher. What is the evidence base for thinking that an additional 10 cash would increase retention at 6 months? I note the Bailey et al. 2013 study but this was in relation to response rates for a postal questionnaire. 1 