The expanding world of on-line dissemination and sharing and conversations surrounding scientific research can be daunting for many scientists. Williams, Peck, and Elkins are certainly qualified and experienced in this area. And, their article "The new alchemy" will certainly be useful to many as they try to figure out how best to navigate this online environment. The greatest benefit to this article, is the clear description of what the different on-line platforms are meant to be and what they are best used for. Readers are sure to find the authors examples and guidance helpful. I am glad that they have written this manuscript and think that F1000 is an ideal place for publication. There are two issues that I wish the authors had commented on a little more extensively. The first is "impact." I appreciate that the article is meant to lay bare what tools are out there for scientists to use in sharing their research. I also appreciate that "impact" is a loaded term and is exceedingly difficult to gauge (and is often done poorly). But, it remains that it is what many scientists focus on. I have personally found that tools like Plum Analytics and ImpactStory and Altmetric are useful in helping me to compare my article-level metrics to those of my peers and to those of other articles published in the same journal. What these tools specifically try to measure is the effectiveness of how well you are able to share your content across these online tools that the authors describe. Ultimately, we scientists need a reason to share our work. For selfish reasons, I think that many scientists will find benefit to these "impact" tools. The second theme that I would have liked the authors to frame slightly differently is "post-publication peer review." The scientists who engage with F1000 do not need to be told the benefits of post-publication peer review. However, it would have been gratifying for me to see the authors list sites that have post-publication review options as a way of sharing research rather than just in the sections on "potential downsides." Science is not static. That sentiment goes for published science as well. Scientists would be wise to welcome and actively engage with post-publication peer review. It is this active engagement that is key for making sharing worth-while. Sharing for the sake of sharing is only a half-step. If a scientist wants to have lasting effects, fully engaging in the process of sharing is absolutely required. I applaud the authors for putting this article together. I know that there are many within the scientific community who can benefit from their commentary. 