The revised manuscript shows improvement from the original version; however, the reviewer has some additional major comments which need correction. Major comments: Results : Page 3, 2 nd column, last paragraph running over to page 4: The results are incorrectly reported in the text – there are not 32 children with combined sensitivity to INH and RIF – please delete this (see table 2). Eighteen (36%) children had MDR-TB, 2 (4%) had INH mono-resistant (or poly resistant?) TB and 15 (30%) had RIF mono- or poly drug-resistant TB. It is very important to discuss possible reasons for the extremely high rate of RIF resistance without INH resistance. Please accurately report the numbers in the text. Page 4, Table 3 as well as text: The methods explicitly state that 2 nd -line DST was done only in children with MDR-TB; however, in Table 3 the results are reported as ALL 50 children still being sputum culture positive after 2 months of 1 st -line ATT had 2 nd -line DST done – which is correct? If DST was only done in MDR-TB cases as stated in the methods, then the denominator should be 18 and 12/18 (67%) MDR-TB cases would then be resistant to ofloxacin, which is a huge number and should definitely be discussed (possible reasons). Discussion : Page 4, 2 nd column at top: The RIF “mono-resistant” numbers should be in the results. It is also important that the authors report whether the 15 RIF-resistant/INH-sensitive cases were ONLY resistant to RIF or whether there was resistance to another 1 st -line drug, which would make the organism poly-resistant. This has not been presented either for RIF or INH resistant cases. Page 4, 2 nd column, 2 nd paragraph: Although the current study showed an association between household TB contact and MDR-TB, it does not show that this was the reason for MDR-TB, as the current study did not collect data to show which source cases had MDR or drug sensitive TB. For this reason, the discussion point is not correct. In the same paragraph, the ofloxacin resistance comparison is incorrect (see second bullet and major comments in results above). This needs to be corrected according to the true results. Page 4, 2 nd column, last paragraph: The first sentence should be deleted, as this cannot be deducted from this current study. The study method does not allow for these conclusions at all. Conclusions : The study method was constructed in such a way that only older children/adolescents were likely to be identified (more likely bacteriologically positive), BUT the study method also did not allow for determining the incidence of drug-resistant TB in this setting, as there was severe selection bias in the way the study was performed – this is not yet mentioned. In the previous review the reviewer asked about from how many children at this hospital who had TB this 50 cases were selected and how many cases were excluded for the different exclusion reasons – this has not been addressed at all in the revised manuscript. Minor comments: Introduction : Last line first paragraph: “found infected” should be “estimated being infected” (these were calculated estimates, not identified infected cases). Last paragraph, suggest change to read as follows (for grammatical and factual improvement: "Although there have been various studies highlighting the incidence of MDR-TB in Pakistani adults 4 , with some studies including children, we could not find any study from Pakistan that determined the incidence of paediatric MDR-TB in particular. The aim of this study is to evaluate the pattern of drug sensitivity test results to 1 st -line and 2 nd -line ATT among Pakistani children (≤18 years) failing to convert to sputum smear- or culture-negative after 2 months of 1 st -line ATT". Methods : Page 3 of 10, 2 nd column, 2 nd paragraph, 3 rd last line: 2 nd -line anti-tuberculosis agents (add “line”) Page 3, 2 nd column, 1 st line of last paragraph suggest change to: “The drug sensitivity test pattern of 1 st -line anti-tuberculosis agents…” Results : Page 4, 1 st paragraph: Were all MDR-TB cases tested for ofloxacin resistance? If so, please present number/denominator and percentage of ofloxacin resistance amongst MDR-TB cases (2/18?) Tables 2 and 3 – column headings should be “Sensitive” and “Resistant”. 