This is a very well written and articulate manuscript exploring the effects of valspodar or placebo on putative tumor-initiating cell number and clinical outcome in dogs treated with doxorubicin. There is very encouraging preliminary data identifying these putative tumor-initiating cells and documenting their high expression of efflux pumps such as P-glycoprotein. Unfortunately there are 2 major issues with conception/design of the study, which are a cause for concern and need additional justification/clarification if the manuscript was to be considered for indexation. As written, it appears that changes in lymphoid progenitor cell percentages in patient dogs were assessed before and after valspodar treatment, but before any chemotherapy was given (Trial design section and Table 2). The role of P-GP in mediating chemotherapy sensitivity is through facilitating the cellular efflux of certain cytotoxic drugs. In the absence of these cytotoxic drugs, P-GP inhibitors would be expected to have no independent cytotoxic effect on any cell population. Thus, the absence of a change in LPC percentage (or gene expression) is intuitive based on the mechanism of the drug and the study as-designed. If LPC number was assessed following doxorubicin (+/- valspodar) treatment, a difference MIGHT have been observed. If I am somehow mistaken about the study design, then it needs substantial clarification. Extensive clinical evaluation of valspodar/chemotherapy combinations in humans has failed to demonstrate an improvement in outcome, even in very large randomized phase-3 trials. For example, CALGB 19808 randomized 302 patients with AML to chemotherapy or chemotherapy plus valspodar response rates, DFS and OS were no different and were actually numerically shorter in the valspodar arm ( Kolitz et al , 2010 ). A second study randomized 762 patients with ovarian cancer to carboplatin/paclitaxel +/- valspodar no difference in outcome was observed ( Lhomm et al ., 2008 ). A third randomized study, ECOG E1A95, evaluated VAD +/- valspodar in 94 patients with refractory myeloma. No difference in outcome was observed ( Friedenberg et al , 2006 ). Although an alternate mechanism for drug efficacy is invoked in this study, it seems counterintuitive to think that differences in outcome (although a secondary measure) would be observed in a study of 20 dogs with lymphoma. None of the above-mentioned studies were discussed or cited in the Introduction or Discussion. 