Thank you for inviting me to review this manuscript. It addressed an old topic in the research field of sarcopenia and did not provide any valuable information for our readers. Here are my considerations. This work did not cite the updated information from the current literature. For example, they cited the information from the EWGSOP that published 10 years ago. In fact, the EWGSOP2 has been published in 2018. Besides, the AWGS 2019 and other updated literature were not cited. The method of sampling likely induced selection bias. The diagnostic criteria of sarcopenia were not appropriate. The ASM was calculated based on anthropometric measures, which were not recommended by any consensus on sarcopenia. Because this method can not accurately estimate skeletal muscle mass. In addition, the cutoffs of the three components of sarcopenia were based on a Brail study. This is wired. Why did the authors not set these cutoffs according to the AWGS 2019 (or AWGS 2014), since the Indians are Asian? Moreover, a 2.4-meters walking test was performed to measure gait speed. The walking course is too short. Why did the authors not apply the 4-meter or 6-meter walking tests, which are the most widely used tests and are recommended by international consensuses such as EWGSOP, AWGS, FNIH, and SCWD? Because the diagnostic criteria of sarcopenia in this study were inappropriate, the prevalence of so-called 'sarcopenia' in this study would make no sense and might mislead our readers. ​​This study did not report sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others. For example, the method to measure handgrip strength was not clearly reported. The introduction was too short. The authors did not tell us why it is important to conduct this study. The discussion section did not offer our readers valuable information. There are some typos in the main text. For example, "elderly population (60 years of age) " in the conclusion section (it should be = 60 years of age). Besides, "the ASM cut-offs considered were 7.0kg/m 2 in men and 5.7 in women " in the method section (it should be SMI instead of ASM). 