This is an excellent paper discussing the factors responsible for slow advancement of women in academe. The author points out to societal pressures and expectations, uneven distribution of family responsibilities, and unconscious biases. Her points are well documented and supported by data and numerous studies. As far as biases are concerned, I would also mention Steinpreis et. al, Sex Roles, v. 41 (1999). In this study, identical academic resumes (differing only by the gender of the candidate) were mailed for expert evaluation for hireability and tenurability. The outcome was that the male name on the resume resulted in higher competence scores. Particularly disconcerting was that female tenure candidates were four times as likely to receive cautionary comments such as "We would have to see her job talk", "I would need to see evidence that she had gotten these grants and publications on her own", "It is impossible to make such a judgment without teaching evaluations". While the existence of biases has been well documented and is now reluctantly recognized in the community, the implications of societal pressures and cultural expectations are usually not openly discussed. I applaud the author for pointing out that what some consider to be family friendly practices, such as unnecessary long maternity leaves practiced in Nordic countries, are hugely detrimental for women's advancement and gender equality. What is needed is not long maternity leaves, but the availability of high-quality affordable child care and domestic help. In my opinion, outdated societal expectations and cultural reality are primarily responsible for women dropping out from the workforce. Even when child-care options are available, there is an expectation that mothers have to provide personal day-to-day care to their children, be involved in school activities through volunteering, provide support for extra-curriculum activities, etc. These expectations stem from the culture of stay-home moms or women choosing mommy-track (which exists both in the US and in Europe) leads to over-parenting practices and creates a pressure for normal women to follow the suit. I believe we cannot achieve true gender equality as long as it is considered to be acceptable to be married to a stay-home wife. Besides the child-care practices, broader implications of this is that men in traditional marriages contribute to perpetuation of biases and create an unhealthy workplace environment. This is documented in the following study: Desai, Sreedhari D. and Chugh, Dolly and Brief, Arthur, The Organizational Implications of a Traditional Marriage: Can a Domestic Traditionalist by Night be an Organizational Egalitarian by Day? (March 12, 2012). UNC Kenan-Flagler Research Paper No. 2013-19. The quote below illustrates the point. "Based on five studies with a total of 993 married, heterosexual male participants, we found that marriage structure has important implications for attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors related to gender among heterosexual married men in the workplace. Specifically, men in traditional marriage (married to women who are not employed) disfavor women in the workplace and are more likely than the average of all married men to make decisions that prevent the advancement of qualified women. Results show that employed men in traditional marriages tend to (a) view the presence of women in the workplace unfavorably, (b) perceive that organizations with higher numbers of female employees are operating less smoothly, (c) perceive organizations with female leaders as relatively unattractive, and (d) deny qualified female employees opportunities for promotions more frequently than do other married male employees." In sum, this is an excellent viewpoint paper. I will recommend it to others as a valuable resource. My only criticism of the paper is the choice of the venue for its publication. The author should have submitted this paper to a reputable journal adhering to established publication and peer-reviewing practices. References 1. Steinpreis R, Anders K, Ritzke D Sex Roles . 1999; 41 (7/8): 509-528 Publisher Full Text 2. Desai S, Chugh D, Brief A: Marriage Structure and Resistance to the Gender Revolution in the Workplace. SSRN Electronic Journal . 2012. Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Krylov AI. Reviewer Report For: Where are the female science professors? A personal perspective [version 2; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1224 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14351 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1224/v1#referee-response-14351 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 14 Jun 2016 Lynn Kamerlin , Department of Chemistry - BMC, Uppsala University, Sweden 14 Jun 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Thank you very much for the thoughtful and valuable comments on the paper, and also for the useful additional references. I am very glad that the reviewer appreciated the work, ... Continue reading Thank you very much for the thoughtful and valuable comments on the paper, and also for the useful additional references. I am very glad that the reviewer appreciated the work, and also agree fully with all the additional points raised in the report. From the two referee reports it's clear that this is an issue that is significantly under-discussed, but that resonates strongly with other female professors as well, and I hope this encourages greater debate around (and constructive solutions to) this issue. Thank you very much for the thoughtful and valuable comments on the paper, and also for the useful additional references. I am very glad that the reviewer appreciated the work, and also agree fully with all the additional points raised in the report. From the two referee reports it's clear that this is an issue that is significantly under-discussed, but that resonates strongly with other female professors as well, and I hope this encourages greater debate around (and constructive solutions to) this issue. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 14 Jun 2016 Lynn Kamerlin , Department of Chemistry - BMC, Uppsala University, Sweden 14 Jun 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member Thank you very much for the thoughtful and valuable comments on the paper, and also for the useful additional references. I am very glad that the reviewer appreciated the work, ... Continue reading Thank you very much for the thoughtful and valuable comments on the paper, and also for the useful additional references. I am very glad that the reviewer appreciated the work, and also agree fully with all the additional points raised in the report. From the two referee reports it's clear that this is an issue that is significantly under-discussed, but that resonates strongly with other female professors as well, and I hope this encourages greater debate around (and constructive solutions to) this issue. Thank you very much for the thoughtful and valuable comments on the paper, and also for the useful additional references. I am very glad that the reviewer appreciated the work, and also agree fully with all the additional points raised in the report. From the two referee reports it's clear that this is an issue that is significantly under-discussed, but that resonates strongly with other female professors as well, and I hope this encourages greater debate around (and constructive solutions to) this issue. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Wittung-Stafshede P. Reviewer Report For: Where are the female science professors? A personal perspective [version 2; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1224 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14197 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1224/v1#referee-response-14197 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 07 Jun 2016 Pernilla Wittung-Stafshede , Department of Biology and Biological Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14197 This is an excellent text on gender bias in academia with a focus on Sweden but with a general perspective. The topic is highly important , especially since people in many countries believe Sweden is a gender equal country. ... Continue reading READ ALL 