General Comments: This is a useful study, well designed, analyzed, and written, ending in a well-reasoned call for improving the evidence base for gonorrhea and chlamydia screening programs. The discussion adds particular value, comparing and contrasting findings from empirical studies with predictions by modelling studies. This part could possibly be structured better (e.g. I found it confusing to see reference 11 discussed twice on page 6). The authors might add a general statement about the value of mathematical models to answer complex epidemiological questions such as this. For example " This illustrates that mathematical models to assess health interventions may be wrong for reasons that are not always obvious, and underlines the importance of empirical evidence". The specific comments below may serve to improve readability and interpretation. Methods: Page 3, right column, top: ‘ A total of 53 studies were included of which 18 were from 6 European countries’ . I suppose the remaining 35 studies were from other European countries, or also non-European? Perhaps just drop ‘European’ from this sentence, so to avoid this confusion. While, according to reference 14, a large proportion of Gc/Ct diagnoses takes places in MSM, it is unlikely that this reflects actual incidence, especially with regard to Ct which is highly prevalent, often asymptomatically, in the heterosexual population (e.g. in adolescent girls). This may be worth mentioning (in Introduction or Discussion) – to put the importance of MSM in the overall epidemic in context. Results: Page 4: ‘No associations were found between anal or genital screening intensity and Ng prevalence in clinic populations’. You found the same for CT, right? Please add that. Discussion: Page 4: The authors offer as a possible explanation for the observed positive (and not, the hoped negative) association that screening makes people susceptible to reinfection. To me a more basic explanation in this ecological analysis based on cross-sectional data, is screening programs are likely targeted to regions and populations with high prevalence. Reverse causality: the high prevalence is likely the cause rather than the effect of the screening program being there. Page 5: ‘ To deal with this bias … we also evaluated the association in MSM attending STI clinics’ : Not clear, the association between what and what? You mean, between national screening intensity and prevalence in MSM attending STI clinics? Please rephrase, and refer back to Table 2 here. Page 5: ‘ As noted above, the STI incidence estimates were for all men and were likely strongly influenced by practices such as screening intensity’ . A more general limitation of these incidence estimates based on national surveillance data is that NG and Ct incidence is hardly measurable, and case notifications are no good indication of underlying incidence of these infections, which are most often asymptomatic and not presenting to clinics. Besides variations in screening intensity, variations across countries in health care access and population awareness of STIs contribute to varying case notification rates, which do not reflect true variations in underlying incidence, and so may bias (or at least dilute the power) of the ecological analysis. Page 6: ‘… limiting the extent to which comparisons can be made between prevalence estimates’: Please consider to rephrase as ‘… limiting the extent to which correlations could be assessed between screening intensity and prevalence across these studies’ Page 6: About the systematic review of observational studies, quoted as reference 11, could you summarize how this differs from your current study, in methodology, scope, populations covered and/or other aspect? Page 6: ‘These omissions may explain the discrepancy between its finding and that of the systematic review of… ’ This sentence may be clearer if written as: ‘… between its prediction, and our and the earlier systematic review of observational studies’. Conclusion: The first concluding sentence is a perhaps optimistic twist to a negative finding, which may surprise some readers (such as me). It does serve as a good introduction to the authors’ call for randomized trials to test the impact of screening in MSM. For readability, the authors may consider to a few word changes: ‘Based on the findings of this study and those reviewed we conclude that we can STILL not exclude...’. 