This is an interesting article that tests the hypothesis that the emergence of gonococcal AMR in MSM is due to increased intensity of screening for gonorrhoea (GC). The authors’ findings are based primarily on an ecological analysis and, if these data are available in Belgium, we believe an analysis considering the GC testing history of each person whose MIC data are included would yield useful results. We would be keen to discuss the proposed hypothesis and interpretation of GRASP data with you, and have included comments for the authors’ consideration: The evidence for different levels of screening intensity in MSM is available from EMIS; is there a comparable source of these data for heterosexual women? Also, did the recruitment strategy to participate in EMIS vary between the UK and Belgium? If so, this would meant that response to the question on the history of STI screening may be less comparable between these two countries. We believe a comparison of MSM with heterosexual men may be more useful, even with the limitations of underreporting of same-sex contact in heterosexually-identifying men. This is because the numbers of isolates are more comparable, women sometimes have different antimicrobial susceptibility profiles from heterosexual men and the cultures available from women are not representative of the circulating isolates in the community due to the difficulty in culturing from women. In England, most gonorrhoea and chlamydia are diagnosed in people under the age of 25 years, with over one million chlamydia tests conducted annually though the National Chlamydia Screening Programme (NCSP) for 15 to 24 year olds. NCSP testing coverage is more than twice as high in women (28%) than men (11%) of that age-group (data here ). Additionally, dual (CT/GC) NAAT platforms are commonly used for the NCSP and, while the positive predictive value of a gonorrhoea test in a community sample is very low, people with false positive results may be incorrectly prescribed antibiotics to treat gonorrhoea. These two aspects may work against the screening intensity hypothesis. There was no evidence of an association between azithromycin resistant NG and being diagnosed previously with chlamydia or gonorrhoea (as discussed in this paper, which the authors also cite: Clifton et al 1 ); ths suggests that those who get tested for STIs more frequently do not have higher azithromycin MICs. The authors only considered GRASP data from 2010, 2011 and 2014, but this analysis could be strengthened by including data from more years, including more recently published data: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/gonococcal-resistance-to-antimicrobials-surveillance-programme-grasp-report . Alternatively, could the authors please specify these three years were selected, or why data from different countries aren’t compared within the same years? Also, could you please clarify why the MIC distributions for all three antibiotics were not analysed for the three time points? For example, the ceftriaxone data from the UK in 2011 could have been considered. In addition, cefixime resistance was widespread across Europe in 2010 due to the ST1407 clone. Cefixime resistance in Belgium was similar than the UK in 2010 according to the Euro-GASP data ( 2 ) and it would not be surprising if the burden of this resistance was in MSM in Belgium also. This analysis would be strengthened by including Belgium data from 2010/2011. Interestingly, Euro-GASP 2015 and 2016 data show much higher cefixime resistance in Belgium than the UK. According to the proposed hypothesis, should the opposite pattern have been observed? It would also be interesting to speculate the level of cefixime resistance in MSM in the UK if asymptomatic, multiple-site screening was not in place. In the UK, gonorrhoea screening guidelines for MSM attending specialist sexual health services were updated in 2010, and this has led to an increase in gonorrhoea tests since then. This testing trend should be considered when interpreting these findings, as the level of testing prior to 2010 would be much lower than those of more recent years. Furthermore, the upturn in screening coincided with a rapid decline in cephalosporin resistance. Between 2010 (gonorrhoea screening guideline) and 2012 (change to dual therapy), the increased screening at sexual health services would have detected more cases and these were treated with cefixime which has been shown to be less effective, particularly at the pharynx (Barbee 2013). This would suggest that the increased prevalence of cefixime resistance in MSM may have been due to the usage of an antibiotic which is less effective than ceftriaxone, rather than the result of intensive screening. Figure 1 shows ciprofloxacin resistance was higher initially in heterosexual men, rather than MSM; therefore, resistance does not always emerge in MSM first. The labelling of the graphs in figure 2 is unclear – could this be clarified? In the discussion and in reference to the link between MSM and travel – this may be the case, but we have found no data to support this: Town et al 3 . In addition one of the references cited mentions that heterosexual men reported more sex abroad than MSM - Matteelli et al 4 . As you have used publicly available GRASP data collected for routine surveillance purposes, the ethics statement should be amended accordingly. Similarly, references to the ‘STBRU’ should be to ‘PHE’. As sexual orientation data was missing for 59% of the Belgium isolates, what are your views on how representative the sample of MSM whose data are considered in this analysis is? As many of the MIC medians were the same and some of MIC distributions that are declared as significantly different do not appear very different on inspection, particularly for 2014 UK cefixime and ceftriaxone, it would be useful if additional analysis were performed, such as linear regression with the geometric MIC means. 