This is a secondary analysis of sequencing data produced by the MalariaGen community project. The authors describe a strong imbalance in SNPs at synonymous positions and less conserved non-synonymous positions, with GC to AT several times more common than AT to GC substitutions. If true, the core finding is of considerable interest. As it stands, there is a substantial methodological issue relating to the assumption that the reference sequence is the ancestral one. For the result to be taken seriously by the wider community this central issue will needs to be addressed by the authors and then tested in future work by others. The authors attempt to discuss evolutionary significance of the finding but these sections are highly speculative. The authors also omit acknowledgment of possible weaknesses / limitations in their work. Major issues: Ancestral vs. derived alleles No attention is given to the critical issue of which are ancestral and derived alleles for each SNP and until this issue is attended to, the findings should be treated with caution. The paper does not explicitly state how the direction of each mutation was determined, but presumably they used the SalI reference sequence available at the MalariaGen website as the ancestral and the alternative allele as the derived allele. SalI is of course not an ancestral sequence but simply the complete sequence of a single isolate and hence the direction of some SNPs is bound to be misclassified. The authors need to consider and describe the extent to which this affects their overall results and conclusion. Then, all possible approaches to addressing and/or resolving the issue need to be explored – the onus is on the authors to subject their finding to the highest level of scrutiny and not simply assume it is correct because it falls out that way on first analysis. The paper describing the database (Pearson et al.) discusses the use of P. cynomolgi as outlier sequence and the definition of an ancestral sequence for around 30% of SNPs – the authors could focus on this subset of SNPs. Other approaches might include looking at SNPs of low frequency and / or private to one of the Asian populations since these are highly likely to be derived – however in theory this also increases the possibility of including SNPs that do not actually exist (false positives), a risk that needs to be made explicit. It might also be relevant to consider the subset of SNPs at SalI only (those with 100% frequency in the samples) – here the reference becomes the consensus sequence of the entire sample dataset and SalI becomes the derived sequence. Units and interpretation There is room for confusion in the way the term ‘bias’ is used. P. falciparum has a highly AT-biased genome but the AT to CG vs. CG to AT ratio is around 1 indicating that the P. falciparum SNPs are also heavily biased towards AT (put another way the system is at equilibrium). In contrast P. vivax has a relatively unbiased genome but SNPs that appear imbalanced towards AT. The SNP bias in the P. vivax population might therefore be roughly the same as for P. falciparum (so it is inappropriate to say that the patterns are divergent). It would be interesting to calculate the underlying SNP rate for A to G (and G to A, C to T and T to C) where the denominator is the starting nucleotides. In other words, what proportion of A nucleotides mutate to G, and vice-versa? One approach would be to focus on 4-fold synonymous sites, calculate the underlying nucleotide content of these 4-fold synonymous sites across the genome, and then determine the mutation rates for each of the 12 possible mutation directions using the underlying nucleotide content as denominator. This would also test whether the AT-bias in SNPs (if it exists) applies to transversions (currently ignored). Secondary use of data The set of SNPs described in Pearson et al. have clearly undergone extensive filtering and quality control and the possibility that a substantial number are incorrect (or have been missed out) seems remote. Furthermore, the imbalance seems to disappear in non-synonymous positions – evidence against a substantial number of artefactual SNPs. Nevertheless any bias in terms of false positive or false negative SNPs could in theory generate the imbalance in SNPs observed and the authors, who did not generate the data, cannot simply assume that the SNPs are 100% accurate – since they cannot see the underlying sequence reads which produced them. At the very least the authors need to acknowledge this potential weakness and discuss explicitly their reasons for being confident in terms of the SNP calls. Minor issues: The authors suggest that P. falciparum and P. vivax have evolved in distinct ways to antimalarials but the mutations associated with antifolate resistance in the two organisms are highly analogous. The authors attempt to link their (possible) finding on SNP bias to wider areas of malaria biology (lifecycle, drug resistance etc..) in the Introduction and Discussion. Currently these sections are highly speculative and not rooted in the extensive literature on this subject that has already been generated for other organisms. The starting point should be that codon bias is of no functional impact. If there are known examples where codon bias has a functional effect on an organism these need to be brought in – are there any examples where codon bias is thought to influence amino acid constitution (hydrophilicity / secondary structure) or generate repeat sequences (a particular feature of P. falciparum )? Differing codon biases might instead be a secondary consequence of the organism’s biology given the link between population size / genetic drift and fixation of new mutations. The authors need to place their finding in the context of wider literature. When discussing possible changes over time there are statements which lack basis. The authors suggest that the bias in P. vivax SNPs has changed recently; this is only one possible explanation for the possible findings. All the authors can say is that there is an imbalance in SNPs compared to the underlying genome.