The author has adequately addressed some of the methodological issues raised in my last review. Most importantly, however, (s)he has not addressed the post-hoc power analysis. The author found evidence that priming a genetic attribution for voting increases genetic attributions for voting whilst decreasing genetic attributions for natural hair style. I think the discussion could unpack these (null) findings more. Is it possible that both findings are merely noise, that is to say Type I errors? Or are they Type II errors? The significant findings in this study have a standardized effect size of d= 0.16. But, this study may only be able to detect effects that are d = 0.2 or greater. So, the null findings may be a Type II error and/or the significant findings may be a spurious finding (Type I error). The author could strengthen the paper by discussing the significance of the null and significant results in light of their own post-hoc power analysis. I suggested this in my last review, but I do not see anything in the manuscript about the achieved power of their trial for each contrast. Nor was there any information reported about the planned power analysis for the experiment, which I also requested in my last review. I cannot approve the paper until the author discusses the null and significant findings in light of the achieved statistical power for any single statistical contrast between conditions. Given that the author has substantially added to the conceptual framework in a way that draws upon my own area of research I also wanted to make the following suggestions to further improve the paper. This is really two different papers, a theoretical one and an empirical one. Currently, a theoretical paper is crammed together with an empirical paper. Of course, the problem with doing this is that the null findings do not support the assertions laid out in the theoretical portion of the manuscript and the significant findings that do occur are not consistent with the genetic interpolation hypothesis. This raises the question, is the conceptual framework, as written, the appropriate framework for this paper? I think the author needs to cut much of the new content added into the introduction after the first review and hone down this paper to the core argument needed to justify his priming experiment and why there might be null results. As I state in bold below, I think that argument needs to be about the boundary conditions of the genetic interpolation hypothesis. Then, (s)he can turn much of the content added into the conceptual framework after the first review into a separate stand-alone theoretical paper. At present, the paper unpacks a very large hypothesis that about the communication of science and the psychology of essentialist thinking, but then it offers very little direct evidence from the null experiment to support that very hypothesis. Suggestions to improve the conceptual framework: There is a need to address the issue of whether the genetic interpolation hypothesis applies to conceptions of individual difference versus group level difference. The conceptual framework now ties the genetic interpolation hypothesis to the field of psychological essentialism. Genetic essentialist thinking can be applied to groups (gender, race, sexuality) and also behaviors believed to be under volitional control. The literature here is very complex because genetic attributions about group behavior versus individual behavior have different effects on social behavior. These differences are explained in the Dar-Nimrod and Heine (2011) paper cited by the author. For example, genetic attributions of gender or racial difference tend to be associated with increased racism and sexism whereas genetic attributions of homosexuality tend to be predictive of decreased homonegativity (see Jayaratne et al. 2006 or work by Nick Haslam). Furthermore, a variety of field experiments conducted by Donovan (2014, 2016, 2017) have found that priming adolescents to believe that races differ in genetic disease prevalence also causes increased belief that races differ in intelligence. Is this a genetic interpolation effect in the context of cognition of group difference? I would think so. And, if it is, then why does the genetic interpolation effect show up when priming adolescents about race and genetic diseases with a 2-page reading in the context of the science classroom among adolescents, but not in this paper? It would be good for the author to state whether the genetic interpolation hypothesis applies only to the domain of cognition of individual difference, or whether it also applies to cognition of group difference. If it applies to both domains of thinking (i.e. differences between individuals and differences between groups) then the author needs to craft an argument about how his genetic interpolation hypothesis is similar to, or different from, genetic essentialism theory. Is it a refinement of the genetic essentialism hypotheses? An addition? In fact, I find the conceptual framework to be too broad and think much of it could be cut to create more space to unpack the genetic interpolation hypothesis and the boundary conditions under which it will operate (or not). Will it operate only in some contexts or with regards to some beliefs about groups, individuals or traits? Boundary conditions are critical because of the null findings. And, the distinction between cognition of individual difference and group difference could be one such boundary condition. Thus, I think this paper needs to be more about the boundary conditions of the genetic interpolation hypothesis. The conceptual framework includes a lot of ancillary information about particular studies that could be cut to streamline the argument a bit more to focus on this issue. If that conceptual work is done on boundary conditions, and if an achieved power analysis is added, then the author may be able to draw some conclusions about the null and significant findings in this study. Toward that end, the author can also explain how it is possible that people develop a belief that some traits are more under the control of biology than others. The whole basis of the genetic interpolation effect is that individuals are more likely to believe that some traits are more influenced by biology than others. Why is this the case? The author states, “The structure of this schema is organized such that the more a trait is believed to be influenced by biology—as deduced from experience, observable features or as learned from other sources—the more genetics plays a predominant role . I use the term genetic attribution schema to refer to this belief structure.” This raises the issue as to what are the experiences, observable features or learning experiences that give rise to genetic attributions? The author appears to claim that media exposure to behavioral genetics research is a source of schema production. But, this cannot be the only source. And, if it is, then such media exposure cannot explain how people develop genetic attributions for non-behavioral traits. Also, I am left wondering whether the genetic interpolation process is a hypothesis that explains belief updating or belief formation? It would seem that it only explains the former, because of the anchoring aspect of it, which might be a boundary condition on where one can detect the genetic interpolation effect, or in which populations it might be present. In sum, the author has not explained how or why people attribute some traits to genetics more than others. This seems like a critical flaw in the argument. For there is no basis for the genetic interpolation hypothesis unless individuals believe that some traits are more under the control of biological factors than others. Otherwise there can be no anchoring and re-adjustment after exposure to a behavioral genetics text. Thus, there is a need to justify why, empirically, we would predict that people believe that genes play less of a role in credit card debt than they do in intelligence or hair texture at outset, prior to this experiment, as they did in condition 1. I would argue that most of our prior beliefs about genetic attributions are influenced by sociocultural factors, such as educational experiences (i.e. Mendelian genetics education) and stuff like television. Indeed, the literature on genetic reasoning suggests that DNA fingerprinting technology in crime scene investigation television shows influences genetic attributions for behavior and identity (see Venville et al., 2005). Also, Figure 1 needs to be better explained. Fig. 1d made sense as what we would predict if the genetic interpolation hypothesis is correct. However, Fig 1a-c are not very clear and could be explained better. In short, I think the author could improve the theoretical portion of the manuscript by addressing the following questions: How do people develop genetic attributions for different traits? Is the genetic interpolation hypothesis an explanation for conceptions of individual difference, group difference, or both? How is the genetic interpolation hypothesis any different from genetic essentialism theory? What are the boundary conditions to the genetic interpolation effect? The following papers show that people develop genetic attributions from educational experiences and also that the genetic interpolation hypothesis might influence how people make sense of group differences in behavior in some contexts but not others: Sheldon, J. P. (2018). Incorporating a Discussion of Genetic Attributions Into Psychology Courses 1 . Donovan, B. M. (2016). Framing the Genetics Curriculum for Social Justice: An Experimental Exploration of How the Biology Curriculum Influences Beliefs About Racial Difference 2 . Donovan, B. M. (2017). Learned inequality: Racial labels in the biology curriculum can affect the development of racial prejudice 3 Donovan, B. M. (2014). Playing with fire? The impact of the hidden curriculum in school genetics on essentialist conceptions of race 4 . Jamieson, A., Radick, G. (2017). Genetic Determinism in the Genetics Curriculum: An Exploratory Study of the Effects of Mendelian and Weldonian Emphases 5 . Jamieson, A., Radick, G. (2013). Putting Mendel in His Place: How Curriculum Reform in Genetics and Counterfactual History of Science Can Work Together 6 Stern, F., Kampourakis, K. (2017). Teaching for genetics literacy in the post-genomic era 7 . Suggestions to improve the discussion: In the discussion the author says that the following questions are unanswered: To what extent does the genetic interpolation effect vary depending on pre-treatment genetic attribution beliefs? Does genetic literacy moderate the genetic interpolation effect? How do people react when exposed to other, arguably stronger types of treatments (e.g., attending a lecture, reading a book, being exposed to a live or web conference)? Are some types of scientific evidence more likely to trigger the genetic interpolation effect? Would behavioral genetics findings involving GxE interactions or epigenetics also cause the same effect? Are genetic attribution beliefs impacted permanently, or do they return to their original level after some time, and in the latter case, after how long? Does repeated exposure to findings about behavioral genetics impact on the strength of effects or their duration? However, preliminary answers to most of these questions can be found in the papers above. The author could craft a more thorough discussion that deals more substantively with the issues raised in the introduction. References 1. Sheldon J: Incorporating a Discussion of Genetic Attributions Into Psychology Courses. Teaching of Psychology . 2018; 45 (1): 91-101 Publisher Full Text 2. DONOVAN B: Framing the Genetics Curriculum for Social Justice: An Experimental Exploration of How the Biology Curriculum Influences Beliefs About Racial Difference. Science Education . 2016; 100 (3): 586-616 Publisher Full Text 3. Donovan B: Learned inequality: Racial labels in the biology curriculum can affect the development of racial prejudice. Journal of Research in Science Teaching . 2017; 54 (3): 379-411 Publisher Full Text 4. Donovan B: Playing with fire? The impact of the hidden curriculum in school genetics on essentialist conceptions of race. Journal of Research in Science Teaching . 2014; 51 (4): 462-496 Publisher Full Text 5. Jamieson A, Radick G: Genetic Determinism in the Genetics Curriculum. Science & Education . 2017; 26 (10): 1261-1290 Publisher Full Text 6. Jamieson A, Radick G: Putting Mendel in His Place: How Curriculum Reform in Genetics and Counterfactual History of Science Can Work Together. 2013; 1 : 577-595 Publisher Full Text 7. Stern F, Kampourakis K: Teaching for genetics literacy in the post-genomic era. Studies in Science Education . 2017; 53 (2): 193-225 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Reviewer Expertise: Genetic essentialism I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Donovan BM. Reviewer Report For: How messages about behavioral genetics research can impact on genetic attribution beliefs [version 2; peer review: 3 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 5 :2744 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.14876.r30359 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2744/v2#referee-response-30359 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 14 Feb 2018 Alexandre Morin-Chass , Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada 14 Feb 2018 Author Response Thanks for sending your review so quickly! It is a real priviledge to find a reviewer so motivated to making this paper a significant contribution to the literature. I will ... Continue reading Thanks for sending your review so quickly! It is a real priviledge to find a reviewer so motivated to making this paper a significant contribution to the literature. I will wait for the other reviews before formally replying to you. Then, if you agree, I would like to engage in a discussion about some the elements you raise in your review. For the time being, I would like to clarify one point of critical importance. In your review, you suggest that I "turn much of the content added into the conceptual framework after the first review into a separate stand-alone theoretical paper." While I would argue against this proposition, I believe it is relevant to inform you that doing so would not be possible even if I wanted to. F1000 is an open publishing platform. In my view, it has clear advantages, not least of which are open access and open peer review. However, once a manuscript appears online, it cannot be retracted or deleted from the website, except under exceptional circumstances such a fraud. Previous versions are also archived on the website and easily accessible. It follows that it is not possible for authors to submit their manuscript/article to other journals and to argue that it has not been published elsewhere. In a certain way, this is a drawback of the post-publication peer review. I'll reach back to you via this Comment zone when other reviews come in. Thanks for sending your review so quickly! It is a real priviledge to find a reviewer so motivated to making this paper a significant contribution to the literature. I will wait for the other reviews before formally replying to you. Then, if you agree, I would like to engage in a discussion about some the elements you raise in your review. For the time being, I would like to clarify one point of critical importance. In your review, you suggest that I "turn much of the content added into the conceptual framework after the first review into a separate stand-alone theoretical paper." While I would argue against this proposition, I believe it is relevant to inform you that doing so would not be possible even if I wanted to. F1000 is an open publishing platform. In my view, it has clear advantages, not least of which are open access and open peer review. However, once a manuscript appears online, it cannot be retracted or deleted from the website, except under exceptional circumstances such a fraud. Previous versions are also archived on the website and easily accessible. It follows that it is not possible for authors to submit their manuscript/article to other journals and to argue that it has not been published elsewhere. In a certain way, this is a drawback of the post-publication peer review. I'll reach back to you via this Comment zone when other reviews come in. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 14 Feb 2018 Alexandre Morin-Chass , Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada 14 Feb 2018 Author Response Thanks for sending your review so quickly! It is a real priviledge to find a reviewer so motivated to making this paper a significant contribution to the literature. I will ... Continue reading Thanks for sending your review so quickly! It is a real priviledge to find a reviewer so motivated to making this paper a significant contribution to the literature. I will wait for the other reviews before formally replying to you. Then, if you agree, I would like to engage in a discussion about some the elements you raise in your review. For the time being, I would like to clarify one point of critical importance. In your review, you suggest that I "turn much of the content added into the conceptual framework after the first review into a separate stand-alone theoretical paper." While I would argue against this proposition, I believe it is relevant to inform you that doing so would not be possible even if I wanted to. F1000 is an open publishing platform. In my view, it has clear advantages, not least of which are open access and open peer review. However, once a manuscript appears online, it cannot be retracted or deleted from the website, except under exceptional circumstances such a fraud. Previous versions are also archived on the website and easily accessible. It follows that it is not possible for authors to submit their manuscript/article to other journals and to argue that it has not been published elsewhere. In a certain way, this is a drawback of the post-publication peer review. I'll reach back to you via this Comment zone when other reviews come in. Thanks for sending your review so quickly! It is a real priviledge to find a reviewer so motivated to making this paper a significant contribution to the literature. I will wait for the other reviews before formally replying to you. Then, if you agree, I would like to engage in a discussion about some the elements you raise in your review. For the time being, I would like to clarify one point of critical importance. In your review, you suggest that I "turn much of the content added into the conceptual framework after the first review into a separate stand-alone theoretical paper." While I would argue against this proposition, I believe it is relevant to inform you that doing so would not be possible even if I wanted to. F1000 is an open publishing platform. In my view, it has clear advantages, not least of which are open access and open peer review. However, once a manuscript appears online, it cannot be retracted or deleted from the website, except under exceptional circumstances such a fraud. Previous versions are also archived on the website and easily accessible. It follows that it is not possible for authors to submit their manuscript/article to other journals and to argue that it has not been published elsewhere. In a certain way, this is a drawback of the post-publication peer review. I'll reach back to you via this Comment zone when other reviews come in. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 22 Nov 2016 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Kampourakis K. Reviewer Report For: How messages about behavioral genetics research can impact on genetic attribution beliefs [version 2; peer review: 3 approved with reservations, 1 not approved] . F1000Research 2018, 5 :2744 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10808.r17905 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2744/v1#referee-response-17905 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 10 Jan 2017 Kostas Kampourakis , Section of Biology & University Teacher Training Institute, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10808.r17905 This is a review of the manuscript titled "Communicating behavioral genetics: Charting the limits of the genetic interpolation effect". I have strong reservations about the manuscript on various grounds, and I hope that the author will manage to revise it. ... Continue reading READ ALL 