Latronico and colleagues report the findings of the CRIMYNE-2 study. The preceding CRIMYNE study showed that a simplified electrophysiological investigation (limited to a peroneal nerve conduction study (PENT)) has a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 67% for the detection of a critical illness polyneuropathy (CIP) and/or critical illness myopathy (CIM) compared to a state of the art electrophysiological investigation. The CRIMYNE-2 study aimed to validate these findings, since the preceding study had some important methodological limitations, which was probably one of the reasons why this simplified approach was not widely accepted by clinicians and researchers. To my opinion, the CRIMYNE-2 study is well designed and achieves its aim. The study was carefully done and confirmed for PENT a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 85%. There were no false negative results. The authors conclude that PENT can be used as a screening tool for CIP and CIM and that PENT might be more reliable than other screening methods currently performed, since no patient collaboration is needed. There are some study limitations that should be discussed by the authors in the paragraph about limitations (to some extent the authors mention them in other parts of the manuscript). Based on the current diagnostic criteria for CIM, state of the art electrophysiological investigations allow only the diagnosis of probable CIM, definite diagnosis needs additionally the presence of weakness and histological changes. For CIP, definite diagnosis requires in addition clinical weakness. CRIMYNE-2 did not compare PENT with the criteria for definite CIP/CIM, which could have caused an additional study bias. Furthermore, the authors propose to use PENT for screening without additional repetitive stimulation (which they used in the study). This could lead to an increase of false positive results. Also this aspect should be discussed. The results of CRIMYNE-2 demonstrate that PENT can be used as a screening tool for CIP/M. PENT cannot be used to discriminate between CIP and CIM or concomitant CIP and CIM. The authors should therefore state in their conclusion in the abstract, that PENT can be used as screening test. 