I read the paper with interest and, although I do not always agree with the authors interpretation of the data, I found the study thought-provoking and analysis thorough and complex. In my view, the main result of the study is that even though initial analysis demonstrates some difference between male and female animals inoculated with breast carcinoma cells, after the animals that spontaneously recovered from the disease were excluded, this difference between sexes was no longer evident. To me, this says that the process of cancer establishment in the bone is very similar in animals of different sex. This is a very interesting conclusion, however, to strengthen it I suggest to run the statistical analysis to directly compare male and female animals for figure 2 and 7, since it is possible that even though male and female animals behave (somewhat) differently compared to their respective baselines, there could be no significant difference between the sexes on Fig 2, which would dilute the impact of the conclusion. If that is the case, then the man focus of the study would become the difference in the percentage of animals spontaneously recovered from cancer inoculation. I think the critical information missing from the description is the status of MRMT-1 cells with regard to estrogen and progesterone receptors. I have never worked with this cell line and I couldnt find from the quick search if it is ER, PR positive or negative. I believe this information is critical both for interpretation of the difference in the cancer clearance rate between male and female animals, and the lack of difference in lesion progression between male and female animals. I agree with Dr. Jimnez-Andrade that the sensitivity of the analysis of bone lesions based on grayness of X-rays is limited and that bone histomorphometry will significantly strengthen the conclusions. I was confused with the last paragraph in Discussion on potential contributors to the difference in pain measures in male and female animals, when the conclusion of fig 7 is that there is no such difference. 