The authors submitted an interesting research article, reporting an analysis of the ongoing clinical trials on interventions for COVID-19. I have some concerns and some suggestions for the authors. Below, my specific comments by section. Title: The title is not clear in its current form. I suggest avoiding the use of questions and clearly expressing the design of the study. I see no need to add the date of the last update in the title and probably the phrase needs language editing. Abstract: I suggest avoiding the use of “most of”. The authors should report specific data. Conclusions should focus on the key messages of the paper. Methods: When saying “All trials were reviewed by two independent reviewers”, please enter the initials of the reviewers in brackets. The phrase “Using this search strategy, 519 trials were identified.” should be moved down to the results section. The phrase “since the information extracted directly from the database was not suitable for statistical analysis and because it was necessary to create new variables with the extracted information” is not very clear. If not useful for the reproducibility of the methods, the authors may also consider to remove it. The authors say that “Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the trial characteristics: categorical variables are reported as frequencies and percentages, while continuous variables are reported as the mean and standard deviation. All the data were analyzed using SPSS 24.0”. Was the normality of data distribution evaluated before selecting mean and SD as appropriate? The timing of the study is unclear. The introduction says “we aimed to examine the main characteristics of COVID-19-related clinical trials that were registered in ClinicalTrials.gov prior to March 27th, 2020”. In the methods section, it is then said that “The database was downloaded on May 15th, 2020” and finally the results say “During the first days of May, the number of trials registered was 128”. Please clarify any timing restriction used as exclusion criteria and the exact date of data collection. Results: The authors say “the approximately 339,723 studies”. Is the total number of registered studies available? If so, the exact number should be used, without approximations. According to Figure 1, the number 339,723 seems to be the result of the authors’ search query. This is in contrast with what stated in the main text. Please clarify. Looking at table 2, it is not clear what difference exists between “Industry”, “Industry/Other”, “Other/Industry”. Please provide IQR when reporting medians (e.g. “The median enrollment was 144 participants”). Discussion: The authors say that “Another review has examined COVID-19-related trials registered in the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and the first results have already been published” but the reference regards the protocol. I suggest to refer to the results, if available as said, and to discuss the similarity and the differences with the present study. The authors say “A large proportion of studies (42.6%) enrolled 100 or fewer patients, but these studies are in the early phases of development, and thus, we are not concerned that these studies are underpowered or have a high risk of type II errors (signification level), which would lead to inappropriate conclusions regarding the effectiveness of a therapeutic approach”. This aspect has been largely debated and probably some references may be added to provide a more balanced discussion (e.g. https://doi.org/10.7326/M20-2959 ; https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2020.8115 ). 1 , 2 In the results section the authors say that “Among the included studies, 98.8% comprised both sexes, while 1.2% recruited only female participants”. Is this 1.2% related to specific populations (e.g. pregnant patients)? This may be eventually discussed and compared to recently published findings on this population (e.g. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bja.2020.05.020 ; https://doi.org/10.1002/eahr.500060 ; https://doi.org/10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30638-1 ) 3 , 4 , 5 , that seems to be understudied. Conclusions: Conclusions should convey a key message for the readers. Strengths and limitations may be probably moved to the discussion section. General and Minor Comments: Language editing is strongly suggested to improve the quality of the manuscript. The osf registration (dated 24th June) says that “All studies from January to May 2020 were included”. As previously suggested, please verify that the correct timing is reported. The registration seems to be subsequent to data collection. If so, the authors should not refer to it as underlying data. The reference to the .csv file should be added. The registered project contain a .csv file ( https://osf.io/28jh7/ ). If it corresponds to the underlying data of this paper, please add it as a reference. 