The study authored by Nolan and Lugo investigates the ability of Fmr1 KO mice on the FVB.129 background to demonstrate proper reversal learning in the Morris water maze (MWM). Background strain appears to make a large difference in observed cognitive deficits in mice lacking expression of the Fmr1 gene, and this study makes a valuable contribution to the literature by assessing MWM reversal learning in Fmr1 KO mice on the pure FVB background. Suggested revisions: The authors refer to papers showing impaired reversal learning in Fmr1 KO mice on the C57BL/6J strain and cite D’Hooge et al., 1997 1 and Kooy et al., 1996 2 However, in each of these studies the authors specify that only pigmented offspring were selected for testing, suggesting that these mouse lines were not fully backcrossed to C57BL/6J. Of note, stem cells used in the creation of transgenic mice have often been derived from the 129 strain. In any case, the authors should likely revisit this statement, and instead may wish to report Paradee et al. (1999) 3 which used fully backcrossed C57BL/6 KO mice. The statement that “few studies have examined cognitive flexibility in a reversal form of the MWM task” (presumably in Fmr1 KO mice) seems inaccurate, as most studies using MWM to assess Fmr1 KO mice actually include this task (Paradee et al., 1999; Kooy et al., 1996; D’Hooge et al., 1997; The Dutch-Belgian Fragile X Consortium paper, 1994 4 ; Baker et al., 2010) 5 . However, as the authors state, it had not been properly assessed on the FVB background. The abstract conclusion says that “previous studies have not demonstrated deficits in spatial memory in the Fmr1 KO model.” However, multiple previous assessments of Fmr1 KO mice in the MWM have shown minor acquisition differences compared to WT mice (e.g., Paradee et al., 1999; Kooy et al., 1996, Am J Med Genet ; The Dutch-Belgian Fragile X Consortium paper, 1994). Please consider these and also deficits observed in the plus-shaped water maze (e.g., Dobkin et al., 2000 6 ; Van Dam et al., 2000 7 ) and radial arm maze (Mineur et al., 2002 8 ) to perhaps soften this statement appropriately. Consider changing “disability” to “disabilities” in first sentence of the abstract. Please add more detail about the Morris water maze task. For instance, did mice receive consecutive trials within each block? Was entry quadrant varied or static over each mouse’s trials within (and across) blocks? Was the temperature of the water controlled? What were the visual cues, where were they positioned with respect to each quadrant, and were they proximal or distal? If animals were artificially colored for detection in the maze, please specify. Were animals dried and/or warmed between or after trials? It may be helpful to label days on Fig. 1B. In the first Results paragraph-- in the absence of a significant main effect or interaction involving genotype, further independent samples t-testing between WT and KO should probably not be reported. In the Discussion, the authors point to deficits in Fmr1 KO prefrontal cortex LTP with regard to the observed reversal learning deficit, which is fine. However, using this same logic to claim support for lack of observed differences in acquisition, based on findings that PFC is not relevant to acquisition, is somewhat flawed. It may be more appropriate (e.g., in the sentence regarding PFC and learning a new location) to simply acknowledge that "PFC is not required for acquisition" and allow the reader to intuit the point (that seems to be intended) more subtly. If this topic will be discussed, other brain regions likely involved in MWM acquisition (e.g., hippocampus), and that also show significant plasticity-related variations in Fmr1 KO compared to WT mice, should be included. The authors’ point that this investigation should be made in females is well-received. However, it is not immediately clear how these data in male Fmr1 KO mice provide “preliminary evidence that could be applied to tease apart subtle differences between the male and female Fmr1 KO phenotype.” Perhaps this point can be further clarified or removed? In the attached data sets, it is not clear why a few animal IDs are repeated. Specifically, please see the “Learning trial” set, and the “transformed” data on the right-hand side of the screen. Subjects 124 and 134 are listed twice, but all other IDs appear once. Also, a little more explanation, either directly on the data sheets or elsewhere in the manuscript, for the trial names, etc. seen here may be beneficial to users of these data. 