The Ryanodine Receptor RyR2 is a key transporter of calcium in the heart, and some of its mutations are associated with fatal arrhythmias. In this paper, RyR2 is studied through docking and elastic network model (ENM) computations. The authors find that a hexa-peptide of the PKA kinase, a known regulator of RyR2, has a very high affinity for RyR2, in the nano-molecular range, and that its binding site is connected to two known disease-associated residues (A77 and R176) through a of residues predicted to be energy responsive through ENM calculations. Furthermore, energy responsive residues are strongly conserved. I think that the paper is very interesting, although some aspects of its presentation have to be improved, in particular concerning the interesting theoretical part on energy responsiveness. I tend to agree with the other reviewer that such a large affinity between the PKA kinase and RyR2 is strange, since kinase interactions are expected to be transient. However, I think that it is unlikely that such a high affinity arises by chance. If we assume that it is correct, it may suggest a molecular mechanism for the disease, as follows. After phosphorylation, the kinase has to dissociate, which would be very difficult given the high affinity, unless a conformation change takes place upon phosphorylation and triggers the release of PKA. This mechanism may be consistent with the network of highly dynamic residues predicted by the ENM, which connects the binding site and the disease-associated site. If the mutations perturb the dynamics of RyR2, making the release of the kinase more difficult, they would result in overphosphorylation, which is the known signature of the disease. It would be interesting to investigate this hypothesis through ENM (and/or MD) computations that try to connect the phosphorylation site and the binding site of the kinase through a signaling pathway and test whether this pathway passes through the disease associated residues, as the computations presented here may suggest. Concerning the presentation, the result that energy-responsive residues are strongly conserved is very interesting. The authors relate it with the influential proposal by Lockless and Raganathan (LR) that pairs of residues energetically coupled are evolutionarily coupled as well (actually this field of correlated mutations is quite older than the LR article and it recently experienced an explosion of interest), but the LR proposal is not exactly the same as what is found here, since in this paper conservation of individual residues rather than evolutionarily correlations are observed. Thus, it would be interesting to study whether this correlation between responsiveness and conservation is general, or it is a special property of RyR2 and maybe other strongly allosteric proteins. Of course I do not require that the authors do this study in this paper, but it would be useful that they share their thoughts on this point. Since the responsiveness of a residues must be correlated with its intrinsic fluctuations (predicted B factors), it would be interesting to known whether the former or the latter correlates more strongly with conservation. Furthermore, the authors expect that responsive residues are hotspots of binding. This expectation does not seem so natural to me. Actually, I expected almost the opposite: two residues i and j that bind the same molecule must have small fluctuations of their interatomic distance , so that I expected that residues in a binding site must be characterized by smaller than generic residues. I tested this expectation some time ago, finding that it is true on the average but much weaker than I expected. Thus, the fact that responsive residues are close to binding sites can be interpreted either as a general property or as a special property of allosteric proteins in which binding and conformation changes are related. It would be interesting to discuss it. Finally, although the paper is very well written, there are some small typos in the equations: 1) In Eq.(1) the factor gamma has to appear in the second line as well; 2) Temperature has disappeared from Eq.(5) ; 3) between Eq.(5) and (6), it is said that the five largest eigenvalues are enough for representing fluctuations, I think that the authors mean smallest eigenvalues, and it would be useful to say that the number five holds for RyR2, other proteins may have a different number of relevant modes