 Context – The National Health Security Office (NHSO) in Thailand introduced a pay-for-performance programme in 2013 based on the UK’s Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) as a requirement of all primary care providers (via the MOPH). Presumably due to space constraints, only limited detail of the programme and the make-up of CUPs was provided. The criteria shown were process measures. Are intermediate outcomes (of greater interest to primary care teams) measured at local level? Unsurprisingly, introduction of the programme was attended by various managerial, technical and logistical problems. Aim – ‘To review the first year of the Thai QOF policy, focussing on the key features of its formulation and implementation stages’. Methods – These are described in limited detail. Though purporting to involve a literature review, this is not described in detail and would anyway serve as background to what is a qualitative study based on eleven interviews and two focus groups. The UK QOF is the largest P4P scheme of its kind and has been extensively investigated. There does not seem to be any obvious link between the findings of the review which would have generated multiple criteria for further investigation (e.g. on what makes a ‘QOFable’ indicator, how to engage providers, IT requirements). It is not clear who conducted the interviews. It appears that thematic analysis was largely undertaken by one author. Informants appear to have been limited to managers at regional and national level. Why were local providers not involved? A more comprehensive review that met the study’s aims might have asked after clinicians’ experiences and how these new financial incentives affected clinical practice. Were no meaningful before-and-after activity data available? Results – The QOF is a scheme of enormous complexity and it is hard to imagine that data collection was saturated after only 11 interviewees. The findings detailed a series of unfortunate programme failings: insufficient prior consultation, with providers and other stakeholders, lack of human and financial resources, unreliable databases and IT, poor design of financial incentives. These can be summarised in one phrase: inadequate preparation. No prior pilot is described and no quantitative data indicating coverage or attainments in relation to different indicators are provided. Presentation – The paper is clearly written and would be accessible for an international audience. Implications – As the authors might have stated (based on systematic reviews of P4P), there are many pre-requisites for the successful implementation of P4P in primary care. The Thai context appears to have met few of these requirements and the risk of system failure was (and presumably remains) high. Indeed, our own review concluded that further development of such schemes would better await further research. The UK scheme is being dismantled with little evidence of lasting health gain attributable to the programme. In summary , I do not feel the paper is suitable in its present form. This reads rather as operational review, albeit detailed, than research. The findings are nevertheless important and the authors are to be commended for their thoroughness. The findings might better be submitted in the form of a more descriptive policy piece. Certainly this work could be of benefit to those designing and implementing policy in Thailand and comparable settings.