This is an interesting and relevant paper. The paper is well constructed. More information about the items that comprised the knowledge, attitudes and practice scores should be included in the methods. While it notes the questionnaire is available as a supplement it is difficult for the reader to discern what the key focus of the KAP questions are. A summary of the focus, and some examples of the types of questions asked would be useful. The conclusion of the abstract identified there were some high risk groups identified – it would be useful to state which groups these were. In the paragraph commencing Ruhm (2005) found … (in the Discussion) the study found unemployed participants to have higher knowledge levels. Did you measure if participants were retired? As there is a correlation between education and knowledge there may be some correlation between well educational, but retired participants? It would also be useful for the reader to have some background to unemployment in Fiji – is unemployment high? Did you collect data about unpaid work (eg. parents that may care for children etc). The paper needs editing. Sentence composition could be improved. I have highlighted some suggested edits, however an overall edit is recommended. Edits: Abstract: ‘Spearman correlation and multiple linear regressions were also done’. Rather than ‘were done’ sounds better to say ‘were conducted’ ‘All the tests were set at 5% level of significance’ Delete ‘the’ eg “all tests …” Check sentence composition: ‘the ninth-leading cause of deaths globally (Rifkin et al ., 2012), is defined as estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of less than 60 ml/min for at least 3 months’ Does the following sentence relate to the adult population: ‘Fiji’s STEP-wise Surveillance Report (STEPS) of 2011 showed that 15.6% of the population had raised fasting blood sugar’ ‘This is quite worrying’; it is better to say “this is concerning ..” ‘hence trimming these expenses via addressing these 2 diseases from a public health perspective would be beneficial’: This sentence needs clarifying – what does ‘trimming these expenses’ refer to? ‘which uses questionnaires’: change to ‘uses scales and items to …’ ‘while married ones had high attitude and practice’: change to ‘while married respondents reported high …’ Avoid using terms like ‘on that same note ..’ and ‘on the other hand’ throughout the paper Discussion: ‘but nil association with attitude was mentioned’: I am not sure what ‘nil association’ refers to ‘These are lot of conflicting information regarding employment and level of knowledge’: this sentence composition needs work 