Rivera-Herrera et al. report a carefully designed study on the occurrence of a moderate-penetrance breast cancer-susceptibility mutation CHEK2: c.1100delC. The paper is well written and the methods and results clearly articulated. c.1100delC is a founder mutation enriched in certain Northern-European populations. The two-to threefold increased risk associated with the mutation and the relatively high population carrier frequency (0.5-1.5%) e.g. in the United States, United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Germany, and Finland has prompted the inclusion of the mutation in the panels used for genetic counselling. However, in countries, where the c.1100delC frequency is very low (less than 0.1%), testing for the mutation may not be cost-effective. On the other hand, since c.1100delC is a causal mutation with verified risk effect, independent of the genetic background or ethnicity, even in countries with admixed population and very low carrier frequency the positive carrier status is informative for the rare mutation carriers and their families. The report of Rivera-Herrera et al. serves well in the building of an overall view of breast cancer risk mutations present in Hispanic populations and would thus deserve visibility in the scientific community. However, they should address the limitations of their study and report the genotyping conditions in more detail. There are two issues: In genotyping, they should use a positive control, i.e. a DNA sample from a c.1100delC carrier, to ensure proper performance of the assay. Referring to conditions and assays used in previous studies is not enough, because the assay ought to be optimized on site. If the authors had included a positive control, they should indicate it in the text. The authors should discuss the power of their analysis. Assuming underlying carrier frequency of 1.16% (as in Couch et al. 2017, JAMA Oncology 1 ) in Colombian breast cancer families, the probability of by chance not detecting any carrier in 131 probands would be 21.7%, which is rather high for a conclusion that the mutation is not present in the country. The authors refer to other studies in Latin-American countries and claim that the c.1100delC mutation is absent or has very low frequency. These studies are also quite small. Furthermore, in the Brazilian studies the mutation frequency in families appeared comparable to the frequency in Couch et al. 1 , and thus should not be referred to as very low. 