This study evaluates the effects that badging has on availability of both data and source code. Badges that highlight and reward articles that share data/code have been described as a simple way to increase sharing behavior and thus reproducibility. This makes this study highly relevant and interesting to the field of meta-research. To measure whether badging has this desired effect the authors compare the availability of data/code in the journal Biostatistics - which introduced badges in 2009 - with a control journal, Statistics in Medicine. The main finding is that there seems to be a small effect on data sharing associated with the introduction, while badges appear to have no effect on the sharing of code. While the statistical methods are appropriate and sound, the study has some limitations given by the data set on how the authors coped with missing data. First of all, and this is probably the main limitation, there is only a small set of publications in the authors' set of 480 that have data/code associated with them. Only around 8% of all publications have code attached, a number that drops to less than 5% for data. Given this overall low rate of sharing - and the large time span covered - there is a lot of fluctuation in the observed sharing behavior for both code and data (c.f. Figure 3 4) between the two journals. Given that only Statistics in Medicine is used as a control journal it is unclear how much of these differences are cultural between the audiences of the two journals (also c.f. that code sharing is more prevalent in SIM than Biostatistics and increases more despite the lack of badges). A larger set of control-journals would potentially minimize this 'culture'-effect (though requiring a potentially unreasonably large time investment). In addition to this there are further effects that complicate a clear inference of the effect of badges: There is a general trend that "Open Science" and data sharing are becoming more popular (c.f. Tenopir et al. (2015) 1 ). In line with this the authors find that the sharing of data in Biostatistics already increased prior to the introduction of badges, even when going for conservative measures. Additionally there is an observed increase in data sharing in Statistics in Medicine in later years, albeit from a lower baseline. I think this general trend should be included in the discussion. The authors additionally find that the links for 64% of articles that provide data/code are broken in Biostatistics and highlight the issue that OUP had with losing (not only) supplementary data. The authors treat these articles as having data/code not publicly available. This not only leads to a marked decrease overall decrease of articles with data/code available but can furthermore be a potential source of bias. For OUPs Molecular Biology and Evolution it was seen that these losses on behalf of OUP not only affected supplementary materials but even individual years worth of full text articles (c.f. http://rossmounce.co.uk/2017/04/02/open-letter-to-oxford-university-press/). If OUP also lost the supplementary materials of certain publication date ranges for Biostatistics this will heavily bias the analysis presented here. Given these limitations I would be cautious to assume whether badges have a positive effect or not on data availability at this point. To improve the resolution by adding more data and to decrease the biases mentioned in 2) I recommend taking the original data/code availability statements at face value and not treat broken links as publications without data/code. I think it is defendable to assume that the data/code was available at the time of publication when the main text suggests so. Doing this the potential effect of badges should become more pronounced as it is not hidden by the 'link-rot' that OUP is responsible for. Overall, I think this is a valuable contribution to the field of meta-research and our understanding of incentives around sharing and reproducibility. I hope that the minor improvements suggested above can be useful to make this data set even more useful. 