I am not an expert in analysis of methylation data, and have not used the methylation packages mentioned in this workflow, so I reviewed the workflow as an uninitiated reader might approach it. Major comments: I found the workflow to be easy to follow and informative. The authors have done a good job summarizing a large and complex topic into an reasonable size for a workflow article, while still mentioning the various alternatives that are possible at each step. I appreciated the focus on EDA and checking the quality of results by eye, for example the M-values for the most significant tests and the MDS plots colored by different variables. I did not try to run the code, and I agree with the other two reviewers that the code and datasets should be made available and linked to from this workflow. Minor comments: The first time “moderated t-statistics” is mentioned, it would benefit to have a citation so that a reader who hasn’t encountered this method before can read the reference, e.g. Smyth 2004. The first or second time IDAT files are mentioned, a small description of these would be useful, a little more than just that these are the raw files. Which platforms produce IDAT files? Are they compressed files? About how large are they? Figure 2: It wasn’t obvious at first that the plot on the right is the same as the left but zoomed in. When discussing the choice of normalization depending on whether or not there are global changes across samples due to underlying biology, the authors might consider referencing the quantro article and Bioconductor package by Stephanie Hicks for determining whether there are global changes in genomic datasets across samples, and therefore whether quantile normalization is appropriate. Hicks has an example of whether or not to use quantile normalization for methylation data in the article. https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/quantro Principal components is misspelled in the text: “principle components” In the paragraph above the call to makeContrasts , it would be good to state in the text in one sentence what it is this function does, for the benefit of someone who has never performed linear modeling before. Likewise, to explicitly state that coef=1 is referencing the first column of the contrast matrix. It should be stated what is the B-statistic which orders the topTable. The authors should explain a bit more what is being shown in Figure 10 in the caption. In the text and code the authors have written DNAseI, but I believe the more common capitalization is DNaseI. The authors might consider commenting on the top GO categories and the associated FDR values. How far down the list should one look? Can the authors advise the reader how GO results should be reported? Is it fair to pick out the most relevant categories from this list and only report them? It wasn’t clear to me the difference between the gometh and gsameth approaches. It would be good to provide references to literature for “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer are important for tumour progression”. References 1. Smyth GK: Linear models and empirical bayes methods for assessing differential expression in microarray experiments. Stat Appl Genet Mol Biol . 2004; 3 : Article3 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Hicks SC, Irizarry RA: quantro: a data-driven approach to guide the choice of an appropriate normalization method. Genome Biol . 2015; 16 : 117 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Love MI. Reviewer Report For: A cross-package Bioconductor workflow for analysing methylation array data [version 3; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :1281 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9514.r14248 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1281/v1#referee-response-14248 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 26 Jul 2016 Jovana Maksimovic , Royal Children’s Hospital, Melbourne, Australia 26 Jul 2016 Author Response Thank you for reviewing our paper, Michael. In response to your comments/suggestions we have made the following changes: The Smyth 2004 citations have been added the first time “moderated ... Continue reading Thank you for reviewing our paper, Michael. In response to your comments/suggestions we have made the following changes: The Smyth 2004 citations have been added the first time “moderated t-statistics” is mentioned A description of IDAT files has been added to the text along with a reference to a Bioconductor package that is specifically for reading IDAT files. We have added to the legend for Figure 2 to clarify that the plot on the right is the same as the left but zoomed in. There is now a reference to Hicks and quantro in included in the Normalisation section. Spelling mistakes and typos have been fixed. Function of makeContrasts is described: See response to Davide Risso. We now explicitly state that coef=1 is referencing the first column of the contrast matrix. Included explanation for B-statistic and citation. More detail about the plot has been added to the figure caption for Figure 10. Changed DNAseI to DNasel Typically we would consider GO categories that have associated FDRs less than 5% as significant. Some discussion of these points has been added to the gene set testing section. The gometh function specifically tests only GO and KEGG pathways, whereas the gsameth is a more general function that requires the user to supply their own gene sets for testing. We have changed the sentence “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer are important for tumour progression” to “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer may contribute to tumour heterogeneity” and included the following reference: Hansen KD, Timp W, Bravo HC, Sabunciyan S, Langmead B, McDonald OG, Wen B, Wu H, Liu Y, Diep D, Briem E, Zhang K, Irizarry RA, Feinberg AP: Increased methylation variation in epigenetic domains across cancer types. Nat Genet. 2011, 43: 768-775 Thank you for reviewing our paper, Michael. In response to your comments/suggestions we have made the following changes: The Smyth 2004 citations have been added the first time “moderated t-statistics” is mentioned A description of IDAT files has been added to the text along with a reference to a Bioconductor package that is specifically for reading IDAT files. We have added to the legend for Figure 2 to clarify that the plot on the right is the same as the left but zoomed in. There is now a reference to Hicks and quantro in included in the Normalisation section. Spelling mistakes and typos have been fixed. Function of makeContrasts is described: See response to Davide Risso. We now explicitly state that coef=1 is referencing the first column of the contrast matrix. Included explanation for B-statistic and citation. More detail about the plot has been added to the figure caption for Figure 10. Changed DNAseI to DNasel Typically we would consider GO categories that have associated FDRs less than 5% as significant. Some discussion of these points has been added to the gene set testing section. The gometh function specifically tests only GO and KEGG pathways, whereas the gsameth is a more general function that requires the user to supply their own gene sets for testing. We have changed the sentence “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer are important for tumour progression” to “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer may contribute to tumour heterogeneity” and included the following reference: Hansen KD, Timp W, Bravo HC, Sabunciyan S, Langmead B, McDonald OG, Wen B, Wu H, Liu Y, Diep D, Briem E, Zhang K, Irizarry RA, Feinberg AP: Increased methylation variation in epigenetic domains across cancer types. Nat Genet. 2011, 43: 768-775 Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 26 Jul 2016 Jovana Maksimovic , Royal Children’s Hospital, Melbourne, Australia 26 Jul 2016 Author Response Thank you for reviewing our paper, Michael. In response to your comments/suggestions we have made the following changes: The Smyth 2004 citations have been added the first time “moderated ... Continue reading Thank you for reviewing our paper, Michael. In response to your comments/suggestions we have made the following changes: The Smyth 2004 citations have been added the first time “moderated t-statistics” is mentioned A description of IDAT files has been added to the text along with a reference to a Bioconductor package that is specifically for reading IDAT files. We have added to the legend for Figure 2 to clarify that the plot on the right is the same as the left but zoomed in. There is now a reference to Hicks and quantro in included in the Normalisation section. Spelling mistakes and typos have been fixed. Function of makeContrasts is described: See response to Davide Risso. We now explicitly state that coef=1 is referencing the first column of the contrast matrix. Included explanation for B-statistic and citation. More detail about the plot has been added to the figure caption for Figure 10. Changed DNAseI to DNasel Typically we would consider GO categories that have associated FDRs less than 5% as significant. Some discussion of these points has been added to the gene set testing section. The gometh function specifically tests only GO and KEGG pathways, whereas the gsameth is a more general function that requires the user to supply their own gene sets for testing. We have changed the sentence “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer are important for tumour progression” to “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer may contribute to tumour heterogeneity” and included the following reference: Hansen KD, Timp W, Bravo HC, Sabunciyan S, Langmead B, McDonald OG, Wen B, Wu H, Liu Y, Diep D, Briem E, Zhang K, Irizarry RA, Feinberg AP: Increased methylation variation in epigenetic domains across cancer types. Nat Genet. 2011, 43: 768-775 Thank you for reviewing our paper, Michael. In response to your comments/suggestions we have made the following changes: The Smyth 2004 citations have been added the first time “moderated t-statistics” is mentioned A description of IDAT files has been added to the text along with a reference to a Bioconductor package that is specifically for reading IDAT files. We have added to the legend for Figure 2 to clarify that the plot on the right is the same as the left but zoomed in. There is now a reference to Hicks and quantro in included in the Normalisation section. Spelling mistakes and typos have been fixed. Function of makeContrasts is described: See response to Davide Risso. We now explicitly state that coef=1 is referencing the first column of the contrast matrix. Included explanation for B-statistic and citation. More detail about the plot has been added to the figure caption for Figure 10. Changed DNAseI to DNasel Typically we would consider GO categories that have associated FDRs less than 5% as significant. Some discussion of these points has been added to the gene set testing section. The gometh function specifically tests only GO and KEGG pathways, whereas the gsameth is a more general function that requires the user to supply their own gene sets for testing. We have changed the sentence “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer are important for tumour progression” to “it has been hypothesised that highly variable CpGs in cancer may contribute to tumour heterogeneity” and included the following reference: Hansen KD, Timp W, Bravo HC, Sabunciyan S, Langmead B, McDonald OG, Wen B, Wu H, Liu Y, Diep D, Briem E, Zhang K, Irizarry RA, Feinberg AP: Increased methylation variation in epigenetic domains across cancer types. Nat Genet. 2011, 43: 768-775 Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Hickey P . Reviewer Report For: A cross-package Bioconductor workflow for analysing methylation array data [version 3; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 5 :1281 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9514.r14425 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1281/v1#referee-response-14425 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 17 Jun 2016 Peter F. Hickey , Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9514.r14425 This paper is a well-written workflow for analysing DNA methylation microarrays using Bioconductor packages. A challenge in writing these workflows is to produce something that is opinionated enough to be useful and balanced enough to be fair to packages developed ... Continue reading READ ALL 