This article explaines the importance of engaging data stewards in planning for data preservation at the beginning of data collection. It makes an important contribution by offering useful guidance about each stage of the data life cycle, such as the use of CDEs and ontologies, the Data Curation Maturity model, and open formats. Data would be more plentiful, better documented, and easier to reuse if this planning took place. The following suggestions are intended to strengthen and expand the current draft of the paper. Since this is explicitly an "opinion article," some of these comments reflect my own opinions, which the authors may not share. 1. Under "Mandatory Responsibilities" the OAIS standard says that an archive must: "Ensure that the information to be preserved is Independently Understandable to the Designated Community. In other words, the community should be able to understand the information without needing the assistance of the experts who produced the information." I think a statement like this provides a focus for the activities involved in preparing data for prservation. OAIS is not simply about assuring that the data survive. Preservation also assures that the data will be reusable (the 'R' in FAIR) in the future. It might be worthwhile to point out the relevance of OAIS for FAIR earlier in the paper. 2. Although Figure 1 suggests that the SIP arrives at the archive fully formed, the text of the OAIS standard emphasizes that the relationship between the archive and the data producer may involves a lot of negotiation. Data repositories often need to contact the data producer several times to get the information that they need. This is a costly process, and the recommendations in this paper would reduce those costs. This is worth mentioning, because data producers often only see the costs of preparing data for sharing. 3. The discussion of CDEs and ontologies could also mention the Center for Expanded Data Annotation and Retrieval (CEDAR), which has developed tools for creating metadata. 4. When choosing a data repository, data stewards should favor repositories that offer an assurance of permanence and trustworthiness. This is especially important in the biomedical community, because valuable data have been lost when repositories and databases closed. There are several bodies that certify data repositories as trustworthy. ISO has a "Standard for Trusted Digital Repositories" (ISO 16363), which is very comprehensive and usually involves an external auditor. The CoreTrustSeal has a smaller list of requirements and relies on a self-audit. 5. Confidentiality and disclosure are mentioned in a paragraph about security controls, but this deserves a little more space. Data producers set the terms of future reuse of data when they make informed consent agreements with subjects. If data sharing is not anticipated in the informed consent agreement, it is very difficult to share the data. Since the informed consent agreement is supervised by an IRB, the IRB should also approve plans for future data sharing. These plans could involve an array of legal (data use agreements) and technical (anonymization, "data enclaves") measures to protect confidential information. 