The authors have adequately addressed most of the concerns raised in the original review. However, there are still some open questions that need to be clarified before the manuscript is indexed. The numbers below refer to the numbering in the original review. Major comments: Comment 1. It is not fully clear what the chloroform density in Figure S6 is and how it is calculated. Assuming chloroform density describes the density of the chloroform component, how was the respective volume calculated? Does the plot really show data for each frame, as stated, or is the data averaged in some way? Secondly, our original concern related to the convergence of the phenomena at hand, i.e. the buildup of the density artefacts. In the main text, it is stated that a density increase at the interface "was accompanied by a density decrease further away from the interface due to the constant volume conditions" and not by a change in density of the whole component (as also shown in Figure S2). Therefore, it is not clear how the quantity given in Figure S6 relates to density artefacts. Comment 2. Regarding the box size in constant volume simulations, we believe that there is an issue that needs to be analyzed in more detail. In general, it is common practice to use constant pressure simulations to determine the appropriate box size for constant volume simulations after finalizing the MD setup, including the definition of integrator, thermostat, pairlist specifications, etc. We acknowledge that in a study which aims at comparing different MD setups, the researcher faces a dilemma. On the one hand, equilibrating the box size for each MD setup entails a variation in the overall density. On the other hand, comparing all MD setups at the same box size entails a variation in pressure, with a potentially even more severe influence on a number of properties, e.g. system dynamics and, as relevant here, also on the extent of the observed artefacts in the present study. The authors should address this topic in more detail. In the Methods section, this should include a detailed explanation of the problem at hand and the choices that the authors have made (variation in pressure vs. variation in density). In particular, a list of the overall values of density/pressure for each system should be included. Furthermore, the authors should provide an estimate of the influence of their choice of how to set up the NVT simulations on system properties and foremost on the density artefacts in their paper. Comment 4. Figure 2 still shows somewhat systematically conserved fluctuations (i.e. present across different simulation systems). This was even more obvious in the original figure. Independent of bin size, where do these (apparently) conserved fluctuations come from? Minor comments: Comment 5. The downsides of SR increased pairlist update intervals should be discussed.