This Data Note reports on the availability of an fMRI dataset from the Consortium for Neuropsychiatric Phenomics (CNP), which includes both original and processed data. The publication of shared fMRI datasets is strongly encouraged to amplify our community's efforts in promoting open science. Although dataset publications are on the rise, unfortunately, only a handful currently exist. I am delighted to see this work being published, and expect that it may serve as a representative fMRI dataset publication in the future. With that in mind, I think it would be helpful to revise the manuscript to include a more detailed description of the data, acquisition methods, and individual tasks. Introduction: The first paragraph of the Introduction is extremely brief and should be expanded to include a description of the purpose of the study, participants, and the experimental protocol (imaging and behavioral). Only a very short mention of these three important aspects of the study are provided and collapsed into a single (somewhat awkward) first sentence. Such brevity might limit a reader's understanding of the overall context of the data that are being shared. The second sentence of the Introduction alludes to "relationships" being "answered" - this should be restated and expanded to more fully describe what questions may be asked from these data - again, this relates to the overall purpose of the CNP project. While such additional descriptions will result in a longer paper, the information will be helpful in allowing readers to understand how their specific research questions may be addressed by a deeper exploration of these data. Lastly, the Introduction should also state where the data may be downloaded and a summary of the different unprocessed and processed files that have been shared. Methods: Demographic information on the participants should be provided, as well as a statement of IRB approval. A description of the MRI scanner should be included, along with the data acquisition parameters. Each of the fMRI tasks should be fully described - this will help clarify subsequent reference to different conditions (e.g., “accept, explode, reject”). Much of the Methods is written for those who are already very familiar with the software packages that are utilized. It would be helpful to improve accessibility by including a brief description of some of the newer, less ubiquitious software tools. In particular, given how the Methods is framed around use of FMRIPREP, a short intro should be included. The total numbers of participants for each of the tasks (shown on page 3) doesn’t agree with the numbers of task datasets discarded for being incomplete - please note why the additional participants were omitted from the final dataset. Overall, the flow of the Methods section could be improved by adding a workflow or pipeline figure that summarizes the different analysis steps and the versions of the data (e.g., volume vs. surface approaches). I’m not convinced that “Dataset validation” is an appropriate heading. Figure 1 is a good sanity check, but it’s not clear how Figures 2 - 6 are a validation. Data and software availability: Some readers may not be familiar with the BIDS format - please add a description of this. In addition, some readers may be looking for information about the DICOM and NIfTI images, so an explicit mention may be helpful. Minor comments: - page 2: first report of DVARS is capitalized, but later mentions are not - page 2: "Temporal derivatives were added to all task regressors to compensate for variability in the haemodynamic response function" - page 3: typo - “unsuccesful” - ensure past tense used consistently throughout Methods (e.g., “tasks data were discarded”, “no correct answers were registered” on page 3). 