In the manuscript, Sharma et al. reported that adult human brains harbor single nucleotide somatic variations in the genome. Using whole exome sequencing by Illumina Truseq and Hiseq2000 system, authors compared single nucleotide variations between frontal cortex (FC) and corpus callosum (CC) of human brains. These variations were partially validated by Amplicon sequencing using MiSeq. The authors found that G to T transversion and 8-OHdG levels were increased in FC. They observed that the somatic variations were enriched in genes belonging to axon guidance pathways and neuronal processes related pathways. They propose that oxidative stress influences single nucleotide somatic variations in normal human brain. There is a problem with the interpretation of the data. Standard protocol of Truseq uses 100 ng of DNA, which is equivalent to 10 7 human cells. To get 10% of alt sequence, 2 x 10 6 cells should carry the same variation in hetero. In the adult brain tissue, it is hardly to occur the 8-OHdG caused mutation at the same site of 2 x 10 6 cell genome. If this observation is correct, at least 21 times DNA replication events are required to expand the cell population carrying the same somatic variation. Such mosaicism is well known in development as described by the authors in Introduction. Probably, the seed of the observed single nucleotide variation caused by 8-OHdG was generated around birth, rapidly neuronal cells replicating stage, and not after adulthood. Another possibility to explain the 10% of alt sequence is contamination of blood cells in brain tissue sample. There is no quantitative purity analysis of tissue (source of DNA). If blood or other type of cell were contaminated in the FC sample, somatic mosaicism might be detectable in this system. If the author could provide the SNV of blood DNA from the same brain donor individual, we can get the answer. I recommend the authors to reconsider the data, and to prepare the model including time scale of mutation accumulation reflecting these results. Comments: Figure 4 - In this figure, proportion of genotype exhibits completely symmetrical pattern between CC and FC. I cannot understand the reason. The authors should discuss this observation with any possible mechanism. p9, 1 st paragraph - To avoid inappropriate bias, authors should use high fidelity DNA polymerase for PCR, and Sanger sequencing method to validate the variant ratio, quantitatively. By showing the chromatogram pattern, we can discuss the variant ratio quantitatively. Dataset 1 - I could not read the 9 somatic variation.csv files in Dataset 1. 