Kell, Potgieter and Pretorius present a stimulating and argumentative review ranging from the interrelationships between the culturablilty of bacteria and their viability and any links these descriptions may have to defined physiological states, through a discussion of environmental bacteria and ultimately focusing on the human-associated microbiota, particularly those found in blood (without associated symptoms of sepsis) and their proposed roles in disease. Two central themes are developed beyond those that have been discussed extensively elsewhere: 1) the proposal that failure to culture bacteria from many samples often reflects dormancy and 2) that such dormant bacteria interact with host iron regulation to contribute to or directly cause a panoply of chronic diseases largely labelled as non-communicable. At a general level I support the provocative stance taken by the authors. With 861 cited references, at the very least they provide a valuable resource for anyone wishing to consider the potential microbial contribution to diseases traditionally considered free of this aetiological component. Of course Helicobacter infection stands as a monument to the stupidity of dismissing this possibility in the face of carefully assembled evidence. Indeed this reviewer, who many years ago, was presented with a case of duodenal ulcer in his final medical exams, would probably have experienced quite a different career had he claimed a role for infection in causing his patients pathology. In considering the specific points presented I have multiple concerns, the most significant of which I will indulge in outlining below. Semantics present a central problem in considering bacterial viability and physiology and I broadly support the approach taken here. The authors do try to define their terms but some problems remain. In particular I take issue with the very broad application of term which should be reserved for cells that survive (have the potential to replicate) after exposure to an antimicrobial stress to which kills most cells in an actively growing culture of the organism concerned. Conflation of this term with implies on the one hand that the persisting cells must have been dormant and on the other that dormancy and persistence represent the same physiological state in bacteria. This difficulty resurfaces later when they define dormancy but other problems emerge before then. I was next concerned by the extensive use of the term . I completely agree that what we used to think of as uniform bacterial populations are probably never so but the degree to which subpopulations may be considered differentiated rather than reflecting a range of adaptive responses or indeed, some degree of injury, is not considered here and again I think this leads to problems in considering their hypotheses under a unitary banner downstream. I consider differentiation to require phenotypic changes that are not directly reversible, as in the case of sporulation, whereas adaptation can involve expression of a single gene that can be reversed by its subsequent repression. I do agree that cell cycle contributes to the range of phenotypes in a pure bacterial culture and that this is not the only reason for their diversity (but was not enlightened by use of the term modulo in this regard). The operational definition of dormancy given deliberately leaves open the possibility of metabolic activity and seems only to require that the cell so defined should not divide; this did not allow me to recognise which operational tests might be applied to enumerate or detect dormant cells. Subsequently the detection of molecular signals indicative of bacterial presence in samples from which they were not isolated in culture is taken as evidence of dormancy. In the first case do we accept any non-dividing cell as dormant and in the second I can (and will) offer multiple alternate explanations other than dormancy. Moreover, returning briefly to the conflation between dormancy and persisters, the recent work of John McKinney and colleagues shows that antibiotic exposed persisting cells are not necessarily non-dividing cells in the mycobacterial system he studied. Alternative interpretations of the presence of bacterial 16SrDNA sequences in blood when culture fails to detect the organisms from which they derive, include the presence of dead, injured or moribund cells. If they are shown to be repeatedly present then they must either be able to persist in the face of clearance mechanisms or be supplied at a rate equal to their clearance; both seem equally plausible to the dormancy explanation to me. Moreover, why the first three explanations offered for should apply to environmental bacteriology but not to clinical samples escapes me. I am led to the conclusion that the authors have chosen to label evidence for discrepancies between culture and nucleic acid detection of bacteria in blood to give their hypotheses a simple headline. I have no problem with the proposal that human blood and tissues classically considered sterile in the absence of overt symptoms of infection are frequently exposed to bacteria and bacterial products that in many cases contribute to serious chronic disease. However, I consider the burden of available evidence currently provides many potential explanations within the field of microbiomics/metagenomics in contrast to the dormancy hypothesis offered here. Further, I feel this broad application of dormancy to bacterial phenotypes which, even in the case of Rpf dependency, have not been shown to result from a programme of gene expression that could be considered as differentiation, diminishes the value of the term. Indeed there remains no direct proof that dormancy of Mycobacterium tuberculosis underpins what we call latent tuberculosis infection and it is not essential to the observed clinical or pathological pattern, notwithstanding the widespread acceptance of this view by most researches, including me. I am not fundamentally opposed to the ideas presented by Kell and colleagues but I do not think they are assisted by lack of attention to the contradictions I have identified above. Finally I come to the iron dysregulation hypothesis and its pro-inflammatory consequences. It is beyond my expertise to comment on the plausibility of the inorganic chemistry deployed here or to review the evidence relating to more than a fraction of the conditions listed. The importance of the struggle between pathogens and host for access to iron is beyond question. When I entered the medical field of infectious disease it was fully recognised that depriving bacteria from iron was a potential therapeutic angle and indeed iron chelation was studied. Desferioxamine, a widely used agent in iron overload, was investigated and found to effectively deliver iron to the pathogen and the approach was set aside. More recently this agent has been identified as a major risk factor in serious fungal infection and guidance specifically recommends its avoidance. Newer agents seem not to suffer from this problem and the approach deserves renewed attention. However, I would not underestimate the ability of pathogens to outwit our pharmaceutical industry in the battle to sequester iron. While there are reasons beyond the host pathogen tug-of war for iron to consider chelation as a therapeutic option, the potential for adverse effects is significant and I think the suggestion that omission of iron chelation from recent guidance on sepsis management is is not justified. Focussing briefly on the specific diseases cited and their relation to bacterial exposure in one form or another, I find that evidence cited frequently rests on what can be considered hypotheses that have little currency in their respective fields. This is not to discourage their continued pursuit but it does weaken the strength of the authors argument when investigation of the supporting literature frequently leads to papers that are given little credence in the specialist field. Of course cave Helicobacter must remain on the table. But there, an accidental technical breakthrough led to an avalanche of convincing laboratory and clinical data. In summary Kell, Potgieter and Pretorius have produced an interesting read which bring many important ideas to our attention. I am not convinced of the breadth of conditions to which they argue their ideas are applicable and I await with interest, demonstration of of how they may be practically pursued and some selected definitive proofs that iron-driven inflammatory disease is as important as they claim.