This report entitled “II. Capsular vaso-mimicry formed by transgenic mammary tumor spheroids implanted ectopically into mouse dorsal skin fold: implications for cellular mechanisms of metastasis” by Witkiewicz et al ., complements and enhances the other papers by these authors, helping to elucidate the findings in the other papers and as such should be published concurrently. There are several important points touched on by the authors. One, the malignant cells form their own erythrosomes and later blood vessels. Two, these erythrosomes have a different metabolic need than other cells in the region, which become the food. Three, the 3 week time point, which is described in this study, and the set of processes that governs this transformation of tumor cells into erythrosomes/proto blood vessels based on fibroblasts is an important key to the subsequent presumed metastatic events. This is a very interesting group of insights and if for no other reason than to test further this hypothesis, this paper should be published. This reviewer agrees with reviewer #1 and #2, who point out that the experiments would be more robust if further experiments would be done to gather data at various time points or from different models. This is a fair point, and I too believe that more time points and different models would benefit this work however the current work, in all three papers being concurrently published represents a significant work. Perhaps the authors can address whether such follow up work, i.e., to increase the time points and to try this with other cell lines, is on-going. The authors point out other interesting findings including the following sentence “The underlying host muscle cells appeared normal whereas adipocytes were commonly replaced with lipid droplets.” Suggesting a mechanism by which tumors can feed on the host cells in ways predicted by epidemiological findings relating various cancers to obesity. If true, this would begin to elucidate a causal mechanism with the current correlation between some of the epidemiological findings. However the authors don’t really describe this point and it would be of benefit to do so.