This paper reports on a burden of disease analysis of osteoarthritis for Peru. Unfortunately, the researchers do not display adequate knowledge of current or past methods of burden of disease measurement. What they have labelled as their GBD2015 methods is very different from the actual GBD 2015 methods. The prior method is wrongly labelled as WHO method. In the 1990s WHO was not a formal partner with Harvard University and World Bank in producing the earliest round of GBD. I highlight the main errors in the introduction and methods sections below. As these variations to established methods make comparisons impossible, I refrain from making further comments on the results and discussion. Page 3, second sentence: a global estimate of OA DALYs is referenced to a Peruvian study. Page 3, third paragraph: Unclear statement ‘…tables based on 1966 data…’. “…employed different life expectancy for men and women…”; what is meant is that the standard life expectancy against which years of life lost are estimated had a difference between men and women. “..2015 Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study ..”; this is now three iterations of GBD out-of-date …though these general methods still apply. “..life expectancy projected to 2050 ..; not correct. I presume it refers to new approach to standard life expectancy which is same for men and women and is based on lowest observed mortality rates in any age group in populations over 5 million. Page 3, last paragraph: “…We excluded patients whose ICD-10 codes for osteoarthritis were registered. "during hospitalization and patients who were previously treated for osteoarthritis….”; how? Page 3/4: “…Sample size calculation estimated that a minimum of 20,000 records were needed to find differences of at least four DALYs/1000 people between subgroups with 80% power and 95% significance.”; no reason to sample when using medical claims data. Page 4, second paragraph: “Covariates…”, better to use term ‘Variables…’. Page 4: ‘The original WHO burden of disease study from 1994 ..’; This was a study by Harvard University for World Bank, not WHO. Page 4: ‘The second method, employed in the 2015 GBD study, uses the maximum worldwide life expectancy projected to 2050…’ Incorrect statement; see comment above. Page 4: ‘…the YLL was calculated as the life expectancy at the time of death using the two methods described above12,13…’; the two references are both for methods prior to GBD 2010. Page 4: ‘..Given that osteoarthritis is a chronic condition that lasts until death, the average duration of the illness was considered as the life expectancy at the time of initial diagnosis. For this estimation, we used the two methods previously described 12,13 …’; same comment as previous, that the two references refer to methods prior to GBD2010 only. What is not stated is a big methods change in non-fatal estimation from GBD2010 onwards estimating YLDs based on prevalence and not incidence. Thus, the authors incorrectly describe GBD2015 methods and their results, therefore, are not comparable to those of GBD 2015 (or any iteration after GBD 2010). Page 5: ‘……Two disability weights were used: 0.165, which is the value employed by the 2015 GBD study for severe musculoskeletal diseases of lower limbs 14,15 ..’; question 1: why this selective choice of applying the more severe of DWs to all cases?; question 2: where did the Peruvian DW come from? What method was used? 