The title and abstract appropriately summarize the contents, and the text is fluent to read. The manuscript aims to cover a vast area, and does good job in summarizing the relevant key aspects in a single workflow. The study design, methods and analysis and their suitability are properly described with appropriate references. The work describes a recommendation for a workflow based on the author's comprehensive experience in this field. It does not provide thorough comparison or benchmarking of the methods but relevant research is cited and key comparisons are already available in the literature. The contribution in this work is to combine the individual elements into a coherent workflow that describes very typical steps and recommended choices in standard taxonomic analysis. * Major comments: The main shortcoming is that the workflow is not provided in a readily reproducible format. I cloned the github repository, and could run the analysis rnw files (PartI, PartII, PartIII) individually, as well as the main.rnw. These result in .text file but using pdflatex or latex could not be readily applied to convert these into the final PDF format. The github site does not mention how the rnw files should actually be converted into PDF. This is not evident as there are many ways to do this and the success will depend on the overall setup. The authors could include for instance a simple shell script or README in the github main directory, showing what steps are taken to get from the original R/Rnw files to the final PDF reports. This would greatly increase the utility and reproducibility of this work. * Minor comment: - Something is missing from Conclusions. There is paragraph that in its entirety reads as follows: "We have briefly covered a small example of using three supervised learning functions (random forests, partial least squares and) to predict a response variable," - it misses text in parentheses and ends with a comma. - Could you cite or discuss in more detail based on your experience whether Friedman Rafsky method outperforms alternative or at least closely related methods in the pairwise comparison task ? Not required but would be interesting to know. - The phyloseq package might serve its purpose better if split in smaller and more compact packages. The class structure is really useful and valuable, and would deserve its own package. This would better serve the overall microbiome data analytics community which can build on this and expand phyloseq capabilities in separate packages, in the same way as certain microarray data structures became a norm with the RMA and limma packages, with subsequent explosion in analysis methodologies. I am here just repeating my comment from the first review. Not required for this manuscript, however.