This is an interesting clinical study to assess the comparative effectiveness of three head louse treatments when are used by the public. For this purpose, the treatments selected were 0.5% d-phenothrin mousse, 0.2% d-phenothrin lotion, and wet-combing with conditioner. The commercial products were applied according to manufacturers instructions (30 minutes for 0,5% phenothrin mousse and 2 hours for 0,2% phenothrin lotion), and wet-combing according to the Bug-Busting Community Hygiene Concern, London (fine toothed plastic comb with conditioner, repeated at 34 day intervals for 2 weeks). I consider that the manuscript is within the scope of the journal, the abstract is according to the objectives and results of the manuscript: The methodology, results and discussion are carefully written and adequate to the objectives of the study. One of the relevant aspects of the work is that reinforces the need for the effectiveness of commercial products must be warranted by the health authorities, due to the importance of pediculosis in school-aged children both in developed and developing countries. An unexpected and surprising result is the low effectiveness of the three methods evaluated. Although pyrethroid resistance and inadequate formulation of the active ingredients surely contribute to the low effectiveness of the phenothrin-based formulations (20% and 21,5% success for mousse and lotion respectively), the low effectiveness of wet-combing (19,15 success) has not been previously reported. This result is worrying considering that the use of a fine comb for removing lice and nits was proposed as a relevant tool both in the diagnosis of infestations and as part of an integrated control strategy of head lice. I agree with the authors in their first conclusion about the limitations of laboratory tests: bioassay tests conducted in a laboratory, whether using laboratory reared insects or even wild collected ones, can only be indicative of efficacy for a formulation and it is unknown for a treatment to perform poorly in vitro yet be effective in vivo. .. even ex vivo screens, using insects recently collected from the wild, may be only partially representative and several replicate tests should be performed using insects from geographically separated locations to ensure that the outcome is not obtained either by chance or due to some happenstance of physiological difference in the insects from that location . But as the authors surely know and probably should clarify in the paper, the main purpose of laboratory testing is the of the effectiveness of pure compounds or formulations. Thus, the parallel and simultaneous evaluation of different compounds and/or formulations made ​​in standardized conditions, is a reliable result of the comparative activity of the products evaluated. Obviously laboratory tests are faster and cheaper than clinical trials, and represent an excellent tool for a first selection of the compound or product to be developed (a pure compound without pediculicide activity in laboratory tests, will not be effective in a clinical trial).