This paper reports the outcome from an ‘actual use’ study designed to determine if users are likely to use the product in a manner that reduces their individual health risks or exposures as compared to using other commercially marketed tobacco products. Actual use studies should allow consumers to interact freely with the product in real world conditions. The study design, recruitment, methodology, data collection, analysis and results are well presented. However, some of the conclusions drawn are broad and statistical procedures used are unconventional, leading to interpretation based on variable selection criteria. Given the recruitment limitation of not having recruited non-tobacco users, the conclusions drawn should be limited to THS adoption among current smokers in the US. Abstract The objective of the study is stated twice in the background. Observational studies by their very nature observe individuals without manipulation or intervention. In this study the participants are asked to use the test products instead of their regular products, therefore, should be referred to as actual use study. There is little if any data regarding the use of e-cigarettes, cigars etc. in the body of the paper. Number and type of participants and brief inclusion/exclusion criteria would make the methods section more informative. Whilst I understand that it is not for the paper to make policy implications, it would be useful to draw on the adoption of THS by vulnerable groups in conclusions. Introduction Generally, the introduction is well presented with relevant references from the literature. Reference to actual use studies with similar tobacco heating system would enhance the articles and provide basis for comparison in discussion. Despite acknowledging that most actual use studies for cMRTP have been conducted in artificial setting and provided free, the products were provided free in this study. Methods The methods used are clearly presented with reference to sample size calculation, inclusion/exclusion criteria, products, data collection and analysis. Rationale for some of the criteria for example, exclusion of individuals who had started smoking with in the last 30 days would have helped. Sample Size Calculation Based on the reference in the paper (Dhand, N. K., Khatkar, M. S. (2014)). Calculating the sample size n ≥ (1.96/0.05)^2 *0.5 0.5 = 384.16 and allowing for an attrition rate of 40%, I arrive at 384.16*(1/(1 - 0.4))= 641. In this paper they have recruited 1300 which is almost double as 641. Pre-screening of the regressors I understand the practice of pre-screening the regressors to understand the relation between the dependent and the independent variables, however, excluding regressors based on an arbitrary rule (p-value =0.2), it’s rather unconventional. According to “Five myths about variable selection” by Georg Heinze Daniela Dunkler 1 : “While it is true that regression coefficients are often larger in univariable models than in multivariable ones, also the opposite may occur, if some variables (with all positive effects on the outcome) are negatively correlated. Moreover, univariable prefiltering, sometimes also referred to as “bivariable analysis,” does not add stability to the selection process as it is based on stochastic quantities and can lead to overlooking important adjustment variables needed for control in an etiologic model. Although univariable prefiltering is traceable and easy to do with standard software, one should better completely forget about it as it is neither a prerequisite nor providing any benefits when building multivariable models ( Sung et al 1996) 2 .” If the authors have not already run the logistic regression including all the regressors, it is worth re-running to see if we observe different potential predictors. The study participants were asked to report the current use of NRT products – despite selecting smokers who had no intention to quit. What was reasons for them using NRT? The main outcome measure was self-reported consumption of cigarettes and THS, does not take into account e-cig or NRT use - this would likely influence the number of THS sticks used and therefore inflate the ratio? Results Is the decrease in the number of tobacco products (Table 2) significant? Given the large SDs I suggest they are not different. Discussion Can you say that THS is a viable alternative if 85% of users rejected the offer even when given the product for free? "availability of THS is unlikely to prevent those willing to quit tobacco from doing so". Can you really make this statement from the data provided? 'Previous quit attempts' is different from 'intention to quit'. "almost 15% of U.S. daily adult smokers substituted cigarettes with THS". While this is technically true, they didn't substitute completely which may be incorrectly inferred from this conclusion. 