There is great potential in the presented study in terms of highlighting HIV + HBV + syphilis comorbid profile within rural settings in Zambia. This information could guide the distribution of pertinent resources needed to curtail the infections while identifying gaps in the drive to end the HIV epidemic. However, the manuscript is not written to best advantage and will require significant revisions to be impactful. Within this context, the authors may wish to consider the following concerns. INTRODUCTION This has accurate information but fails to specifically indicate relevance and need for study. What are the current prevalence estimates for HIV/HBV and/or syphilis co-infections in Mkushi? in Zambia? Is this information lacking and, therefore, partly formed the basis for the research study? Are laboratory-based screening and/or diagnostic tests for the three infections routinely conducted together in much of Zambia, or this is lacking and provided another impetus for the study? METHODS Clarify if the “Mkushi District Health Office” has formal authority to independently review and give ethical approval to conduct clinical research studies consistent with the norm. Indicate how study participants were informed of study, and how (and who) conducted the enrollment into the study. State what percentage of new HIV cases initiated on cART did the reported 126 patients (i.e., enrolled in study between March and May 2018) reflect. It is unclear how many 4-mL venous blood draws were carried out on each patient. Were these blood draws separate from routine blood draws for patient care at the hospital? Provide more information on how the screening/diagnostics tests performed actually work. Indicate their limitations and/or likelihood of false-positives. For example, Rapid Plasma Reagin for syphilis detects nonspecific antibodies produced by the body while fighting other infections like Lyme disease. How was this checked in study? RESULTS Presented data are scanty and lack details. The authors are encouraged to expand this section and give additional information as well as correct errors in counts. Consider reporting socioeconomic and demographic characteristics of participants in Table format. Give values as mean STD here and elsewhere, accordingly. Stated syphilis seroprevalence is 51 of 126 cases. This is then subdivided into age groups, i.e., 1 for below 20 years; 24 for 20–29 years; and 15 for 30 – 39 years. But this yields a total of 40 and not 51 cases. What happened to the missing 11 patients? Like with syphilis, should also report “seroprevalence” data for HIV and HBV both by age and gender. Authors need to be consistent accordingly. Need clarification on the reliability of the collection of “past syphilis infection” history. How exactly was this done? More rigorous statistical analyses needed to properly interpret data and show significance as applicable. The significance of findings are unconvincing (and lost) as reported. DISCUSSION Interpretation and significance of findings are unconvincing. It is difficult to make an independent assessment since presented data lack much detail. Need to explain what gaps in knowledge have been filled by the study. For example, how will this information assist with patient care and/or re-direction of resources for concomitant screenings/diagnosis of HIV, HBV, and syphilis? Are the above services readily available in all health centers in Zambia, or there is a disparity between urban and rural health centers? Explain. Need to discuss the limitations of the research study. 