This manuscript discusses the cost-effectiveness of QD versus BID in resource-limited settings such as sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Using computer simulation, authors found that QD could not be considered cost-effective in SSA. Major comments : Background : Literature cited in this manuscript is quite old, and in general most of the literature cited in this study was published before 2013. This is a critical issue since HIV treatment is a very dynamic field that is constantly changing. In fact, in 2013 the World Health Organization published the guidelines for ART that were updated in 2016, in which they recommended ART coverage for every HIV-infected individual, but prioritizing individuals with a CD4 count 500. Also, a Once-daily regimen comprising a non-thymidine NRTI backbone (TDF + FTC or TDF + 3TC) and one NNRTI (EFV) was found to be cost-effective and therefore recommended to be used as a first-line ART in HIV nave patients. Based on the framework proposed by these guidelines, how relevant is this study and what would be the potential impact and application of the study results? Model: It is very hard to understand the model with the description that is currently being provided. If adherence is an important difference between QD and BID, is this factor included in the simulation? What about potential adverse events or treatment failure? Also, why is 350 CD4 cell count used for early state (state A)? Latest ART guidelines advise priority for treatment initiation at 500 CD4 cell count, so why did authors not consider using this value for this state? If this is a computer simulation, why did authors decide to include such a small number of individuals (only 1,000 simulated agents)? In most published studies these simulations usually include about 1,000,000 individuals. Did the simulation consist of 1,000 individuals for each ART regimen, or 500 in one and 500 in the other one? How many individuals survived? How many died in each ART regime? Also, why did they decided to use a 1-year time step? Model parameters in Table 1 indicate that individuals can move from states beyond the next state, and return. For example, an individual in state A could move to state D, and could also return from state D to state A. However, diagram in Figure 1 indicates that movement of individuals is from one state to only the immediate adjacent state, for example, individuals in state A only can progress to state B, and return from B to A. Please clarify. Model parameters : The main flaw of this manuscript is the data used for model parameterization. Authors claimed to have conducted an extensive review of the literature available on this topic. However, no more than three sources were used for data parameterization. Furthermore, after I searched through the original sources, I was not able to find the values that authors used in this model. For example, in Goshu Dessie (2013), they used a model in which state A was 500 CD4 cell count and not 350 CD4 cell count, as used in this study. Also, the probabilities of the transition states reported in Table 1 in Goshu Dessie do not correspond with the probabilities of the transition states that authors used in their model. Moreover, the model in Goshu Dessie included a monthly time step, whereas the model developed in this manuscript uses yearly time steps. Taking these changes in consideration, I consider that authors should address how this could affect the parameter values used from Goshu Dessie. Did authors transform these monthly probabilities to annual probabilities? Similarly I was not able to find the values that the authors used in this study for the baseline population from each state in Goshu Dessie. Please clarify. Authors mentioned that there were few parameters for which data from low and middle-income countries were not available, what were those parameters? Also, why is beta distribution used as the probability distribution of state probabilities for uncertainty analyses? What is exactly included in total medical cost? Limitations of the study: In the last paragraph of the discussion, authors mentioned that the model was limited by the assumptions about the mechanism of HIV progression. What are these assumptions? Minor comments: In general there are several grammar mistakes and typos that need to be addressed. ART acronym is used the first time in paragraph 1 of background but it was not defined before. Also authors use ART in some parts of the manuscript and HAART in others. Please specify. If authors examined the uncertainty around the robustness of imputed parameters, why did they call it sensitivity analysis and not uncertainty analysis? 