This manuscript describes the dietary intake and anthropometric measures of 32 AD cases and 37 controls in southern Brazil. The hypothesis is sound regarding changes and differences in both diet and anthropometric measures in AD and related disorders. In addition, there is limited knowledge of this in Brazilian samples of elderly, an underrepresented group. Despite the strengths of the research question, the reviewer has several questions. The cited prevalence of AD is confounded by understanding whether the authors refer to a clinical vs neuropathological diagnosis of AD. Since there are no brain imaging data referred to nor presented, it is assumed that the AD cases referred to and included in this study are based on clinical diagnostic criteria only. DietWin (a 10 year old version) is the dietary analysis software cited in the Methods section. It is unclear as to how the nutrient intake data is estimated, and whether it is appropriate for southern Brazil. While the reviewer looked to the DietWin software website, noting its apparent Brazilian application, additional details regarding DietWin would be appreciated since the nutritional comparisons are based entirely on its output. Other details of dietary/food intake data entry and analysis are missing. A 3 day dietary intake was merged with one 24h dietary recall and an average across 4 days was calculated. These are 2 very different methods of acquiring dietary intake data, such that adding a 24h recall to a 3 day dietary recall is not 'summing' the same thing. The case group, AD patients, is being compared to a very healthy ( younger) control group. The control group does not appear to be a worthy comparison, yet they are comprised of 'patients'. Use of the latter term is incorrect. It is stated that, 'By three-day and 24-hour dietary recall, the caregiver noted in forms all food and drink consumed'. Does this mean that caregivers of BOTH AD cases and controls provided information on dietary intake, or only for those who needed help. This is differential depending on the need of the participant and could introduce a bias. It is unclear what proportion of the sample self-reported vs had a caregiver report dietary intake. This very healthy control group would not seem to need a caregiver. Secondary reporting of dietary intake data is notoriously inaccurate. In addition, it is anticipated that the cases were more likely to have a caregiver report on their behalf. It is unclear what proportion of participants required estimation of anthropometry using the equations provided based on measures not requiring standing. Differences in measurement also may introduce a bias. Given the small sample size, the results and discussion are speculative at best. An English language edit is required. 