Halpert and Chappell provide a knowledgeable, well-written overview of global intellectual property protections and plant genetic resources and present a set of arguments for moving toward an alternative open-source approach. As they point out in their introduction, the widespread assumption is that monopoly patents on germplasm can pass a cost-benefit analysis test by creating paths for future innovation. The authors question the truth of this assumption, however, and ask whether alternative approaches such as the open-source framework also can support agricultural innovation while decreasing the ex post inefficiency of the intellectual property regime. Intellectual property protections for plants in the U.S. and in international agreements: This section describes the evolution of a global intellectual property regime, primarily following the utilitarian approach of the United States and its development of plant patents, Plant Variety Protection (PVP) certificates, and utility patents. The authors provide a brief, useful summary of each stage in this development within U.S. law as well as the parallel international moves toward the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV) and the World Trade Organization’s requirements in the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). While alternatives have been possible, the authors write, they have remained limited within the global intellectual property rights regime. Draining the pool of knowledge: Enclosing more than giving back: The authors ask whether intellectual property protections in fact erect barriers against future innovation, contrary to the widespread assumption, and thus decrease rather than augment our collective knowledge of agriculture and plant breeding. Using both theoretical arguments and empirical examples, Halpert and Chappell describe the way that plant patents promote the “anti-commons,” suppressing potentially valuable avenues of research. They present evidence that raises significant doubts about the validity of claims that plant patents lead to more or better commercial varieties and conclude that intellectual property protections for germplasm have not demonstrated their ability to promote needed innovation, much less net contributions to collective knowledge. Further considerations challenging contemporary dominant IPR: This section provides further evidence that the global intellectual property regime may harm public goods, including biodiversity. The authors point out that research on agricultural innovation so far has been unsatisfying and that farmers’ decision-making on varieties does not provide reliable evidence of seed performance. In contrast, the seed industry has rapidly consolidated and is dominated by a small number of corporations. Massively parallel computing? Peasant seed innovations vs. high technology centralization: The authors compare the costs and benefits of centralized systems for plant breeding innovation in the global intellectual property regime and decentralized selection as practiced by peasant farmers. Unlike the centralized system, peasant farmers’ in situ practices promote integration with local soil and climate conditions and allow exposure to wild relatives and resulting increases in biodiversity. Drawing from theories of Massively Parallel Computing and crowdsourcing, the authors suggest that decentralized problem-solving is more efficient and can take both formal and informal approaches. In contract, the centralized intellectual property regime is less able to recognize and respond to localized cultural and social practices, is prone to power differences that stifle innovation, and may be at higher risk of large-scale failure. Alternative innovation systems: So far, the authors have challenged the belief that the global intellectual property regime is necessary and efficient in terms of plant breeding innovation. In this section, they lay out possible alternative systems, including revisions within the plant patent system, the use of common property resource management, a protected commons envisioned by the Open Source Seed Initiative, the establishment of a dual commons-intellectual property system, and – most radically – the elimination of intellectual property protections for plant genetic resources. These alternatives are not explored at length in this section, but the authors present a significant portfolio of possibilities that, in various ways, question the foundational assumptions beneath the intellectual property system and call for innovation in new directions. Conclusions: The final section brings the authors to two concluding questions: 1) Can a single, centralized system of germplasm management encompass the wide range of traditions, practices, and relationships surrounding plant genetic resources? 2) How do we define “success” in a plant breeding management system? In other words, what are our goals? The authors suggest that multiple approaches are more promising than a unified global system and that the goal of profit maximization is limited and, when monopolistic, harmful. Overall, this article follows well-recognized standards of argumentation and includes credible, authoritative sources in its review of the literature. Two minor corrections are necessary, both in the conclusion: Page 8, left column, second and third line of final paragraph: either “with” or “across” needs deletion; Page 8, right column, third paragraph: Quotation from Claire Luby is not cited. 