I enjoyed reading this opinion piece. The author, a researcher from the natural sciences, engages with different quantitative and qualitative studies from gender studies and science technology studies and relates the results on how gender influences career development and recognition to her own experiences. She clearly states that this is the position she is writing from and hence adequately situates her contribution. I have minor comments to improve this opinion piece: First, I am not sure what purpose the section that discusses Ceci William's work serves within the opinion piece; the section seems disconnected from the rest of the piece; I think this section could be left out or rewritten. For a rewrite I want to note that Ceci Williams are not scholars in the field of gender studies, but rather study sex differences (e.g. in relation to I.Q. or career choice). Second, the author draws our attention very clearly to how gender discrimination is not only a question of parenthood but based on deeply rooted stereotypical assumptions about the interests and capabilities of the dichotomously constructed categories of women and men. One could add that reframing gender discrimination as mainly a problem of working out the "motherhood question" and enabling and supporting motherhood actively obscures other aspects of discrimination, which, as the author elaborates, are very potent factor, too. Third, I would like to draw attention to how in the Turkey example the reliance of academic professors on domestic help may be very favorable for their careers, at the same this constellation redistributes domestic labour mainly among women and along categories of class and ethnicity. I would invite the author to mention that. Forth, with regard to the "Raising awareness of implicit bias" section, I would invite the author to discuss the question if decision makers (referees for grants, hiring committees... etc) should undergo gender bias awareness training before being granted the power to decide? This has been a controversial question and I am interested in the authors opinions. Last, as the author, much to my pleasure, is interested in concrete action to better the situation, I would like to draw attention to a study by Trix Psenka from 2003 that describes gender bias in recommendation letters. I find this study instructive for checking you own language in describing and assessing those who trust you to recommend them for career relevant positions. http://das.sagepub.com/content/14/2/191.abstract References 1. TRIX F, PSENKA C: Exploring the Color of Glass: Letters of Recommendation for Female and Male Medical Faculty. Discourse & Society . 2003; 14 (2): 191-220 Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Müller R. Reviewer Report For: Where are the female science professors? A personal perspective [version 2; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1224 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14198 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1224/v1#referee-response-14198 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 14 Jul 2016 Lynn Kamerlin , Department of Chemistry - BMC, Uppsala University, Sweden 14 Jul 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I am delighted that the reviewer enjoyed reading the opinion piece, and appreciative of the constructive suggestions for further improving it. Based on the reviewer’s suggestions, a revision has now ... Continue reading I am delighted that the reviewer enjoyed reading the opinion piece, and appreciative of the constructive suggestions for further improving it. Based on the reviewer’s suggestions, a revision has now been submitted in which the following modifications have been made to the manuscript: With regard to the work of Ceci Williams, although the authors are not scholars in the field of gender studies, the views they summarize align fairly well with my “on the ground” experiences. This has now been stated explicitly in the manuscript to explain what that section is doing there. A statement has been added cautioning against allowing the “motherhood question”, which remains a major challenge, to take over and obfuscate other aspects of discrimination, which are also very potent, and thus why it’s important to approach this issue with care. A statement has been made about the problems with an over-reliance on domestic help simply redistributing the problem amongst women and other categories of class and ethnicity. A statement has been made about implicit bias training for decision makers before sitting on grant and hiring committees. Although this is controversial and only raises awareness of rather than solves problems, nevertheless it’s an important first step. Here, I would like to also point out that implicit bias is not only a gender issue, but involves also bias based on ethnicity, academic rank, geographic location, and any other number of variables, and poses a significant problem in grant evaluation and recruitment processes. Therefore, implicit bias training should not be limited to gender awareness alone. A short paragraph discussing gender bias in recommendation letters (based on the study of Trix and Penska from 2003) has been now included in the manuscript. I am delighted that the reviewer enjoyed reading the opinion piece, and appreciative of the constructive suggestions for further improving it. Based on the reviewer’s suggestions, a revision has now been submitted in which the following modifications have been made to the manuscript: With regard to the work of Ceci Williams, although the authors are not scholars in the field of gender studies, the views they summarize align fairly well with my “on the ground” experiences. This has now been stated explicitly in the manuscript to explain what that section is doing there. A statement has been added cautioning against allowing the “motherhood question”, which remains a major challenge, to take over and obfuscate other aspects of discrimination, which are also very potent, and thus why it’s important to approach this issue with care. A statement has been made about the problems with an over-reliance on domestic help simply redistributing the problem amongst women and other categories of class and ethnicity. A statement has been made about implicit bias training for decision makers before sitting on grant and hiring committees. Although this is controversial and only raises awareness of rather than solves problems, nevertheless it’s an important first step. Here, I would like to also point out that implicit bias is not only a gender issue, but involves also bias based on ethnicity, academic rank, geographic location, and any other number of variables, and poses a significant problem in grant evaluation and recruitment processes. Therefore, implicit bias training should not be limited to gender awareness alone. A short paragraph discussing gender bias in recommendation letters (based on the study of Trix and Penska from 2003) has been now included in the manuscript. Competing Interests: No competing interests. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response ( F1000Research Advisory Board Member ) 14 Jul 2016 Lynn Kamerlin , Department of Chemistry - BMC, Uppsala University, Sweden 14 Jul 2016 Author Response F1000Research Advisory Board Member I am delighted that the reviewer enjoyed reading the opinion piece, and appreciative of the constructive suggestions for further improving it. Based on the reviewer’s suggestions, a revision has now ... Continue reading I am delighted that the reviewer enjoyed reading the opinion piece, and appreciative of the constructive suggestions for further improving it. Based on the reviewer’s suggestions, a revision has now been submitted in which the following modifications have been made to the manuscript: With regard to the work of Ceci Williams, although the authors are not scholars in the field of gender studies, the views they summarize align fairly well with my “on the ground” experiences. This has now been stated explicitly in the manuscript to explain what that section is doing there. A statement has been added cautioning against allowing the “motherhood question”, which remains a major challenge, to take over and obfuscate other aspects of discrimination, which are also very potent, and thus why it’s important to approach this issue with care. A statement has been made about the problems with an over-reliance on domestic help simply redistributing the problem amongst women and other categories of class and ethnicity. A statement has been made about implicit bias training for decision makers before sitting on grant and hiring committees. Although this is controversial and only raises awareness of rather than solves problems, nevertheless it’s an important first step. Here, I would like to also point out that implicit bias is not only a gender issue, but involves also bias based on ethnicity, academic rank, geographic location, and any other number of variables, and poses a significant problem in grant evaluation and recruitment processes. Therefore, implicit bias training should not be limited to gender awareness alone. A short paragraph discussing gender bias in recommendation letters (based on the study of Trix and Penska from 2003) has been now included in the manuscript. I am delighted that the reviewer enjoyed reading the opinion piece, and appreciative of the constructive suggestions for further improving it. Based on the reviewer’s suggestions, a revision has now been submitted in which the following modifications have been made to the manuscript: With regard to the work of Ceci Williams, although the authors are not scholars in the field of gender studies, the views they summarize align fairly well with my “on the ground” experiences. This has now been stated explicitly in the manuscript to explain what that section is doing there. A statement has been added cautioning against allowing the “motherhood question”, which remains a major challenge, to take over and obfuscate other aspects of discrimination, which are also very potent, and thus why it’s important to approach this issue with care. A statement has been made about the problems with an over-reliance on domestic help simply redistributing the problem amongst women and other categories of class and ethnicity. A statement has been made about implicit bias training for decision makers before sitting on grant and hiring committees. Although this is controversial and only raises awareness of rather than solves problems, nevertheless it’s an important first step. Here, I would like to also point out that implicit bias is not only a gender issue, but involves also bias based on ethnicity, academic rank, geographic location, and any other number of variables, and poses a significant problem in grant evaluation and recruitment processes. Therefore, implicit bias training should not be limited to gender awareness alone. A short paragraph discussing gender bias in recommendation letters (based on the study of Trix and Penska from 2003) has been now included in the manuscript. Competing Interests: No competing interests. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: de Rijcke S. Reviewer Report For: Where are the female science professors? A personal perspective [version 2; peer review: 4 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1224 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14201 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1224/v1#referee-response-14201 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 20 Jun 2016 Sarah de Rijcke , Centre for Science and Technology Studies, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9566.r14201 This is an excellent, well-written and well-researched opinion paper about barriers to female progression on the academic career ladder. Though Kamerlin carefully positions herself in the context of the Swedish research system and in the natural sciences, her observations (unfortunately) ... Continue reading READ ALL 