This very interesting and well-written article: “Life experience and the asymmetry of the human auditory system/ clinical and auditory science laboratory implications” taps into a very important issue. Laterality of the auditory system although widely recognised is not yet fully implemented in clinical evaluation in everyday audiological practice. This leads to less than optimal management of hearing impairment as this is not restricted to hearing loss but extends to auditory processing disorder. The author should more clearly include auditory processing disorder (APD/CAPD) and its test battery approach which includes dichotic listening. Especially since APD evaluation is the only case in clinical audiology where asymmetry of the auditory system is measured, accounted for and remediated. Dichotic listening tests are at the core of APD test battery that lead to APD diagnosis. The author should refrain from using the term “suspected APD” as this is misleading and is not a diagnostic label. The term APD should be used referring to properly evaluated and diagnosed individuals. Both abstract and keywords should include Auditory Processing Disorder as it is during an auditory processing evaluation that asymmetries in the HAS are studied and revealed Shen present. For example, the right ear advantage during a dichotic test evaluation may reveal typical development and the absence or reversal of asymmetry may indicate an individual with pathological evidence concerning the central auditory nervous system. Introduction is very well written and it should lead up to how important clinical evaluation of auditory processing is to be able to better describe, evaluate and rehabilitate speech in noise difficulties for example. The dichotic listening test: The text provides a good description of dichotic listening tests with different stimuli and conditions. It lacks the inclusion and description of clinical populations. To be able to tap into hearing as a whole and not focus on the peripheral hearing alone, clinical populations and their results showing how asymmetry is presented or if it is still present should be discussed and compared with that of normal populations. The latter is very well presented but clinical population results should be included in this section. The corticofugal modulation of the asymmetrical auditory system: In this section the author writes: “The Bergen Dichotic Listening Database [Westerhausen et al ., 2015] and the resulting normative data provided with their test manual [Hugdahl Asbjrnsen, 2013] enables an understanding of the effects of age upon the REA-CV. There has been little discussion of these age effects in the literature but they provide valuable insight into the lengthy maturity window of the human auditory system through childhood and adolescence, and also its gradual decline, beginning as early as the sixth decade.” These databases however do not usually include the hearing threshold that represents the state of the peripheral hearing. If the author has these data he should present them and so how even though loss of hearing sensitivity is present with the ageing process, this can be clearly separated from the differences in dichotic listening results in younger and older adults. In the case that data of the pure tone audiometry (hearing threshold across tested frequencies) are not present the author should rephrase this section to include the possibility that the results showing in the dichotic listening may be the result of presbyacusis. AC asymmetry: Please spell out AC. What does it stand for? The author states that: “The Bergen normative data [Hugdahl Asbjrnsen, 2013] shows that there is a large between-individual variability.” Can he really rule out that this may be due to different hearing thresholds (peripheral hearing)? It would add to the value of this paper to include results of studies regarding medial olivocochlear system functionality (otoacoustic emissions suppression). In these studies there is a documented asymmetry as well that is part of the HAS and it should be included. Examples of such studies are: Iliadou, V. V., Weihing, J., Chermak, G. D., Bamiou, D. E. Otoacoustic emission suppression in children diagnosed with central auditory processing disorder and speech in noise perception deficits 1 . Section 4.3. is discussing “Mechanism for laterality differences”. S. Khalfa, L. Collet Functional asymmetry of medial olivocochlear system in humans. Towards a peripheral auditory lateralization Neuroreport 2 . E. Veuillet, A. Magnan, J. Ecalle, et al. Auditory processing disorder in children with reading disabilities: effect of audiovisual training 3 . S.G.G. Sanches, R.M. Carvallo Contralateral suppression of transient evoked otoacoustic emissions in children with auditory processing disorder 4 . The author writes that: “The vast majority of the speech-in-noise studies in the literature describe their use of speech audiometry tests that use headphones. Such tests do not represent realistic listening situations, and do not test speech-in-noise skills that relate to the asymmetry of the auditory system”. Although this may be partly true, it should be made clear that the reason behind this testing methodology is to ensure that even in cases when the testing environment does not permit for ideal acoustic conditions (sound treated booths instead of soundproof ones, for example or a quiet room vs a sound treated booth) testing is accurate. This should be included to balance the information provided in this section. In the section: “Childhood development and the in-built asymmetry of the ACs” the author should rephrase results concerning OAE suppression providing insight into laterality/asymmetry. Please see paper by Gkoritsa et al 2007 indicating that (i) MOCB maturation is thought to be complete before the age of five in children and (ii) the presence of suppression laterality indicates full maturation 5 . In discussion (last sentence of the second paragraph) the author states that: “In sum, while some asymmetry exists at birth, it is life experience that shapes the detail of the auditory processing capability and the functional asymmetry of an individual's auditory system.” Life experience with an intact and fully functioning peripheral and central auditory system should be added to stress the fact that this will be altered if a hearing loss or an auditory processing disorder is present. In the section: “Using the model of the asymmetrical auditory system” auditory processing test battery approach that is used in specialised APD/CAPD clinics throughout the world should be mentioned and described. See references in 6 . In the section “Extending the model of the asymmetrical auditory system” the phrase “The management of those suspected to have Auditory Processing Disorder” SHOULD change to “The management of those diagnosed with Auditory Processing Disorder” and the reference of Moore et al, 2018 should be omitted as not relevant. It is not acceptable to mix populations together and it is not acceptable to manage suspected and not diagnosed individuals. We do not manage suspected hearing loss for example, we have to first diagnose it to know how to manage it. The same is true for APD. Include references: Iliadou V and Kiese-Himmel C. Common Misconceptions Regarding Pediatric Auditory Processing Disorder 7 . Sharma M, Purdy SC, Kelly AS. A randomized control trial of interventions in school-aged children with auditory processing disorders 8 Iliadou V, Sirimanna T, Bamiou DE. CAPD is classified in ICD-10 as H93.25 and hearing evaluation-not screening-should be implemented in children with verified communication and/or listening deficits 9 . Musiek FE, Chermak GD, Weihing J, Zappulla M, Nagle S. Diagnostic accuracy of established central auditory processing test batteries in patients with documented brain lesions 10 . The section on Hidden hearing loss should be preceded by one on APD. See Musiek, F. E., Chermak, G. D., Bamiou, D. -., Shinn, J. (2018) 11 . CAPD: The most common ‘hidden hearing loss’ central auditory processing disorder-and not cochlear synaptopathy-is the most likely source of difficulty understanding speech in noise (despite normal audiograms). 