 Overall Comments This article discusses the nutrition transition in South Asia, its influence on the nutrition profile of South Asian countries, and its relationship with the increasing burden of non-communicable diseases in the region. The author stipulates that countries in this region are mired by the dual burden of malnutrition and the new emergence of obesity and associated NCDs. While the article and its content are poignant additions to literature on nutrition and NCDs, and the manuscript is in large part quite well-written, it could greatly benefit from a few improvements. Specifically, there are a few claims made by the author which need to be substantiated by more evidence. Introduction The section begins with a sentence that is too long, and needs to be either broken up or shortened to improve its coherence. The author mentions several economic statistics in the first paragraph (lines 27 to 30) which need a reference. Similarly, the facts stated between lines 39 and 45 need to be substantiated with a reference. Methodology Line 2: Please add the word “review” after systematic literature. Demographic transition in South Asia Line 4: Please replace “mankind” with “global population”. Pages 4 through to 7 present some good evidence with regards to nutrition, NCDs and socioeconomic and demographic factors. However, under “Urbanization” on page 6, the author states that women joining the labour force “greatly influences the shift from home cooked traditional food towards precooked convenience food and fast food”. Currently, this statement is not substantiated by evidence. Epidemiological transition in South Asia and the burden of NCDs The second paragraph starts as “While in the developed countries the battle is chiefly against NCDs, people in developing countries are facing a double burden [of] malnutrition.” I believe that the first and the second halves of the sentence are not related as the word “while” would suggest. It is possible that the author intends to make a point here which is unclear at the moment, and some paraphrasing or additional information might help clarify the issue. On the same page (7), the caption for Figure 4 ends with “with no place for fresh fruits and vegetables”. I believe that this is a non-factual interpretation of the photograph provided, since all the facts cannot be ascertained from the picture. As such, I believe that this part of the caption should be removed. Also, it would benefit the manuscript if loaded terms such as “teeming” can be removed or substituted with more neutral terms. In this specific example, the word can be removed. In the third paragraph (p. 8, lines 13-15), the statistics on the burden of diabetes in Bangladesh need to be referenced. The economic impacts of NCDs I would like to commend the author on making a very important point about the economic burden of NCDs, especially on vulnerable households; that NCDs are both a socioeconomic determinant of health, as well as a result of poor socioeconomic status. However, in developing countries undergoing economic transition, studies have shown that better socio-economic status puts individuals at greater risk of obesity and associated NCDs. For example: Gouda J, Prusty R (2014) Overweight and obesity among women by economic stratum in urban India. J Health Popul Nutr 32:79–88 Pednekar MS, Hakama M, Herbert JR, Gupta PC (2008) Association of body mass index with all-cause and cause-specific mortality: findings from a prospective cohort study in Mumbai. Int J Epidemiol 37:524-535 Chhabra P, Chhabra SK (2007) Distribution and determinants of body mass index of non-smoking adults in Delhi, India. J Health Popul Nutr 25:294-301 Tackling the risk factors of NCDs among children The suggestions provided at the start of the first paragraph in this section (p. 9) need to be referenced or substantiated with evidence. Have such measures been scientifically confirmed as being effective? Statistics on the global expenditure on food advertisements needs to be referenced. Is banning of “junk food” in schools effective as a health promotion measure for children even beyond school? The author’s suggestion is a very valid point, but it would be even better if studies which have assessed the benefits of such measures are cited. On page 10, under “Community based physical activity campaigns”, the author mentions “most studies” as having highlighted the relationship between lack of open spaces (for physical activity) and NCDs. These studies need to be referenced here. Conclusions and policy recommendations On page 11, the final recommendation appears too presumptuous about the private sector’s responsibility in the spread of the NCD epidemic. This might be a fair point, but it can be challenged without any evidence to substantiate it. It is also too broad a claim to be included, and the recommendation to build partnerships for a holistic approach is enough on its own without the preceding sentence. Final comments I believe that the suggested improvements would advance and improve the manuscript greatly towards acceptance. I would suggest minor language edits, since there appear to be more typographical than syntactic errors, and these can be resolved through proof-reading.