This paper is a welcome addition to the community because it identifies a significant problem (antibody nonspecificity) and provides guidelines for improvement. While there are helpful recommendations in this submission, including how to do experiments and recommendations on finding antibodies, it does not describe a complete and proper plan. The authors indicate that antibodies should be validated but do not provide enough detailed information on how this should be done nor the criteria expected of a properly validated antibody. There is also no detailed guidance on how to validate all procedures, reagents and thereby select proper controls. In this regard checklists would be helpful. For example, staining intensity must match expression level, a band on a gel must be the correct size, negative controls must be included, sensitivity of the antibody should be determined and sufficient to detect the target in the sample of interest etc. Red-flags that would invalidate an antibody should also be described. Preferably a second antibody should be used for cross-validation and it must give the same pattern of staining. Specific comments: Page 2 paragraph 5(left). All of the antibodies in Elliott et al., 2006 1 detected EpoR, however the sensitivity of all were low with poor specificity. One of the 4 antibodies (M-20- Santa Cruz Inc) was initially thought to be useful for westerns because it passed some tests. However M-20 was later invalidated because it detected a correctly sized protein thought to be EpoR that turned out to be a non-EpoR protein. (see Elliott et al., 2013 2 ). Page 2 paragraph 6 (right). Polyclonal antibodies are not necessarily more sensitive. In fact because of the elevated noise with polyclonals, they can have a poor signal to noise ratio. Page 2 paragraph 7 (right). High specificity and reproducibility are related to affinity and the nature of the binding site (epitope), not to monoclonal antibodies vs polyclonal per se . Page 3 paragraph 4 (right): The premise that an investigator can trust any other lab or publication misses what should be the main point of the paper. The ultimate responsibility must belong to the end user. Even under the best circumstances it is impossible to fully evaluate validation done by others. For example, how does one know if only select data is shown or whether experiments were repeated or reproducible etc. Page 4 paragraph 2(left). Few manufacturers do “extensive” validation. Vendors frequently only show limited and selective (best) data with little description of the validation of reagents and controls. Page 4 paragraph 2(left). A discussion on the limitations of RNAi is warranted. Like antibodies, RNAi can also give misleading data due to non specific knockdown of the presumed target protein. Page 5 last paragraph (right). A discussion of what are appropriate positive and negative “controls” is missing. 