 General Comments This case report describes CTA findings of a 40 year-old patient treated shortly after his birth by a Blalock-Taussig shunt for a tetralogy of Fallot, without use of any exam between the postoperative period and the actual CT. One of the main drawbacks of the BTS is the absence of growth and stretching, so thrombosis is very frequent. Fortunately, the patient developed large systemic to pulmonary arterial anastomoses, classifying the disease as a type B. The authors state that pulmonary atresia is untreated; this is partially true since BTS was used to compensate pulmonary artery flow from subclavian artery; this is mentioned in the Introduction (“without surgical curative intervention”) Some sentences are unclear and should be rewritten. In particular all the verbs should be in the preterit mode. Specific comments Abstract Last sentence “This case predicts an exceptional late outcome of untreated TOF” is a wrong affirmation since BTS is one of the treatment options as described below. Case report Second para. In what way sinus tachycardia is specific? Line 8. “CT” should be preferred to “The scan” Line 9. What do the authors mean by “overriding aorta“? Line 10. “The right pulmonary artery had a good diameter should read “The right pulmonary artery had a good diameter”. Line 12. “MAPCA were more numerous” Line 16 “the patient becom” should read “the patient became” Parts of the following sentences should be reformulated such as: “pulmonary flow was given…”, “this is compatible with chronic thrombosis “ “receiving life-long conservative therapy”… Discussion Line 4. “The different forms of TOF include TOF” should read “The different forms include TOF” Line 9. One should read “other systemic arteries like subclavian, carotid, or rarely coronary arteries. “. Line 18. The authors mention “In this case, despite a ductus arteriosus closure” Was it spontaneous or under surgery? The following sentence is difficult to understand and should be rewritten : “After cardiac ultrasound evaluation, multidetector CT angiography is useful to assess…” Line 26. What means “study location,”? References OK. Illustrations OK. Fig 2 should read “Multiplanar reconstruction image”; the following “from a cardiac CT scan with ECG synchronization”should be deleted. 