The authors present a new tool integrating established algorithms into one R package. This tool is intended to provide access to state-of-the-art statistical analysis to users with limited programming experience. As the manuscript is rather a package vignette than an independent article, I focus my review mainly on the software and usability. In general, the intention of providing comprehensive analysis options for non-experts is desirable, however a bit overachieving. In particular, I have several years of programming experience in R, but I was not able to apply the presented methods to another (multiclass) data with acceptable effort of time. Non-expert programmers, as biologists or doctors, also will not be able to correctly use the software in its present form. I therefore recommend extensive improvement of usability, user guidance and error feedback. I also acknowledge how challenging implementation of such tools is and encourage the authors to continue development of “exprso”. Particular comments: The arrayExps -function should accept also standard matrix containing expression values, the groups may then be given as character vector. Handling of most functions can be improved by providing standard parameter values, e.g: in arrayExps (may simply include all groups) percent.include in splitSampe (66%) and so on Help the users to find errors in their function calls by giving appropriate warning/error messages. E.g. “fsStats cannot be applied in multi-class studies”. No non-programmer will know what an “inherited method” is. Addressing the same point: fsANOVA returned with an error not clear to me (my data includes 4 groups): "contrasts can be applied only to factors with 2 or more levels" I found no information about this in the help file of the fs-methods. In general, documentation should be split into one individual file for each function. In the manuscript and the package vignette, the authors provide an overview figure of all functions implemented in the package. I suggest revision of this figure: a more systematic flowchart layout of the functions graph would help to find the starting point (GEO, local file, R matrix) and to follow the analysis workflow. Top-left part of the figure is not clear to me. 