Overall, we think it is an interesting study and the goal of creating a Persian version of the CRM and spatial release tests is a good idea. However, the methods for developing the new test create opportunities for confounds and difficulties interpreting the data. Specific comments are listed below. In addition, the training arm is not sufficiently different from the new informational masking for it to be a clinically reliable outcome measure. It would be appropriate to have another task (such as dichotic sentence identification (or equivalent test that has already been validated in the Persian language)) that wasn't trained as an outcome. Furthermore, the lack of an active control condition raises the possibility that any activity involving remembering and responding to stimuli (or even just coming into the testing environment) would change performance. For detailed discussion of the training issues, the reader is encouraged to consult Green et al. (2019) 1 . Additional fundamental methodological concerns involve the failure to consider the working memory and attention influences that are known to be important for speech in noise for older listeners (Fullgrabe et al., 2015) 2 and for all listeners for informational masking tasks, especially the CRM tasks. With the regard to the new CRM test, it is excellent to create a Persian version, but there are several differences in these methods that could result in substantial differences in the outcomes. The step size of 5 dB is too large, given the differences in performance that are usually observed. It might be acceptable if a psychometric function were being fit to the data, but the statistical analysis proposed is unlikely to be sufficiently sensitive to the small changes that this method is able to detect, using the standard methods. A more appropriate measure is the target-to-masker ratio at which a fixed level of performance is obtained. For examples of the differences in target-to-masker ratio commonly observed in older and younger listeners with the English version for same and different-gender targets and maskers, the reader is directed to Marrone et al. (2008b) 3 and Gallun et al. (2013) 4 . The use of two male and two female speakers is not sufficient to ensure that the specific speaking styles of the talkers are not influencing the results. English CRM uses four of each gender, and the studies from our lab exclude one of the males due to differences in rate of speaking. Time alignment of the keywords is an essential aspect of creating an informational masking situation where spatial cues can provide large release from masking. Temporal overlap should be carefully examined, and preliminary testing should establish that none of the talkers is more intelligible than the others in the conditions to be tested. The use of 90 degrees of spatial separation is large enough that it is possible that changes in spatial ability will not be detected. Multiple studies have established that the difference between 30 and 45 degrees of separation is not very large (Marrone et al., (2008a) 5 ; Jakien et al., (2017) 6 ) and that for people with normal hearing, the effects of age are difficult to detect with separations greater than 15 degrees (Srinivasan et al., (2016) 7 ). For this study, this is very important, because if the effects of the training are to improve the ability to use (or even perceive) spatial differences, it is unlikely that this will be a very large change, and so if only very large separations are used, there may be no way to observe the improvements in performance. Jakien and Gallun (2018) 8 provided mathematical equations by which the effects of age can be predicted for 45 degrees of separation. It would be useful to develop similar equations in Aim 1, compare them with the published equations, and use these normative functions to assess improvements in performance after training. This report was written by Frederick Gallun with advice from Aaron Seitz. 