I was happy to review a manuscript about a theoretical framework in the field of reporting bias. I think the authors have proposed an interesting perspective but my major remark is that they try to explain human behaviour with an epidemiological model for which I don’t find a body of evidence in the literature that could convince me. Comments: Background: In clinical research, registration of trials prior to data collection is used to prevent selective reporting with some success – please delete “some success” because it is further explained. " A framework of possible causal pathways to reporting bias - Motivations and means. Along these lines, we hypothesize that the combination of two of the most common categories in our review (van der Steen et al., 2018) –– i.e., focusing on preferred findings and employing a poor or flexible study design, suffices to cause bias through selective reporting..." – how do you then comment on the replication crisis in psychology and the experiments that were replicated in the same laboratories? They were motivated to replicate and for sure were not sloppy. Do we have a poor designed field here or are there other factors? I would like a more detailed explanation 1 , 2 , 3 . A theoretical framework for reporting bias. Rothman’s theoretical model – is there any evidence in practice for this model in relation to human behaviour? Figure 1 and the model: It is an interesting figure, but the same could be explained by some other general theories, for example 'Theory of planned behaviour' (of course evidence cannot be confirmed as we have a replication crisis in psychology). I don’t believe human behaviour can be explained with an epidemiological model although it is very nice. Also, the model itself does not have a word about ethical climate and other possible external factors. Why did you exclude them? Do you consider them stable in all environments? There is some evidence that peers can predict replication 2 ? How do you comment? Could you include some external factors in your model? Like environment, ethical climate, etc… The sentence: "At the root of reporting bias may thus lay a basic human attitude, the very natural tendency to make public our successes" – this is not clear at all. At a root of everything probably lies personality and attitude, but I don’t understand the meaning of the sentence here. Obviously, researchers and editors are key stakeholders because commonly they decide what is actually being reported and what is not. – I would say that sometimes we cannot report everything because we have only 3000-4000 words (here is the role of editors). After a series of rejections researchers may doubt whether reporting is worth the effort under the pressure of lack of resources such as time. I advise you to read a case study from Helene Speyer - The value of a “failed” trial 4 . 