 This is a potentially interesting study, reporting increased presence of novel somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) within the RNA binding protein hnRNP A1 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) in comparison to controls. The disease associated SNVs resulted in a mis-localization of hnRNP A1 into cytoplasmic stress granules and this mis-localization was associated with cellular apoptosis in cells, transfected with the respective mutants. From a technical point of view the study is well performed. The question, however, remains what the findings mean for the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis.It is interesting to see that there is apparently a high incidence of induced SNVs in PBMCs of MS patients, which most likely not only affects the gene investigated in this study. This may be due to the fact that MS is a chronic inflammatory disease, leading to proliferation of leukocytes (in particular T-lymphocytes) in the peripheral immune system. In addition increased oxidative stress in PBMCs of MS patients has been reported before. Both conditions may lead to increased somatic mutation in these cell populations. Thus, in a study like this the inclusion of a control population with long-lasting chronic inflammation would be important in addition to the study of normal controls. According to the presented data, the particular SNVs are also likely to result in cell elimination. Whether this changes the immune response in MS patients has not been investigated in this study.Finally the authors discuss that their findings may have implications for the understanding the mechanisms of tissue injury and neurodegeneration in MS. To support this conclusion, evidence has to be provided that similar somatic mutations are also present in cells of the central nervous system, such as neurons or oligodendrocytes. The basic observation of an increased incidence of somatic mutations in PBMCs in MS presented in this article is a first (but preliminary) observation, which is interesting.However, it is not clear what this means for the disease. The key message from the authors that this is an important finding for MS pathogenesis is not substantiated by the data. I agree with the authors that further experiments (possibly beyond the scope of a new version of this article) are needed. For example: To look for somatic mutations for other genes, to see whether the paper just shows that in PBMCs of MS patients there is an increased rate of somatic mutations in many different genes or whether the mutations in the specific gene are MS specific. To expand the sample of control patients, in particular by including patients with other chronic inflammatory diseases (e.g. patients with chronic rheumatoid arthritis). To search for similar mutations in neurons and glia of the MS brain to establish a link to neurodegeneration in this disease. 