The authors validated a commercially available rabbit polyclonal anti-Nicastrin antibody from Sigma-Aldrich (#N1660) in immunoblot analysis, using as inputs total lysates from wildtype and Nicastrin knockout HEK293 cell lines. The N1660 antibody, generated against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the C-terminal cytoplasmic part of human Nicastrin (693-709), identified a band at ~110 kDa only in the wild type lysate and another band at ~ 25 kDa in both wildtype and knockout lysates. The data does not clarify whether the low-molecular weight signal is a non-specific band or a nicastrin-derived peptide. Treatment with PNGnase F to remove all N-linked oligosaccharide chains, reduced the molecular weight of the nicastrin band to less than 75 kDa, without affecting the loading control actin band. The observed shift in molecular weight is supported by previous observations (Herreman A. et al. , 2003 1 ) and the authors should acknowledge this study. Other Points: The authors should test the N1660 antibody against mouse Nicastrin. “It is thought that NCSTN may help control substrate selectivity.” The ‘substrate receptor” model (Shah et al , 2005 2 ) has been challenged by independent studies (Chrrez et al , 2008 3 ; Zhao et al , 2010 4 ), and it is not supported by available high resolution structural data for the gamma secretase complex (Bai et al , 2015 5 ). More recent studies indicate that the ectodomain of NCT has both passive and active roles in gamma secretase-mediated proteolysis. On one hand, it restricts the access of substrates presenting large ectodomains by steric hindrance (Bolduc et al , 2016 6 ). On the other, it has an active role in the regulation of the sequential proteolysis of APP and response to gamma secretase modulators (GSMs); thus, nicastrin modulates Aβ length. “This phenomenon of a smaller than expected nicastrin band has been observed previously. It is possible that a longer signal sequence than expected is cleaved from the nascent peptide, or the charge profile of the polypeptide affects its migration.” Shah et al. , 2005 2 provides information about the precise signal peptide sequence cleaved from the nascent NCT polypeptide. 