This manuscript describes an interesting rodent model of chronic pain. The basic premise is that local injection of a mixture of biological materials typical of the extracellular matrix following tissue injury activates tissue repair processes which ultimately causes a constrictive nerve injury associated with the development of pain behaviors. However, the view that traumatic injury is not involved in the development of this model must be incorrect, as the sham animals also develop pain behaviors, albeit to a lesser degree and with a delay compared to the active procedure arm. The biological processes involved are well schematized in Figure S1 and underscores that the involvement of both injury and repair processes in the development of the neuropathic state. Unfortunately, pathological evaluation was performed only months after the initiating lesion, long after the acute and subacute effects of the procedure had resolved. If the assumption that purely repair processes are involved in this model, it would be necessary to evaluate in a longitudinal manner molecular and other markers of tissue damage and repair. For example, the presence or absence of inflammatory cells and quantification of pro-inflammatory cytokines at the site of injection of the sciatic nerve in the days and weeks following the experimental procedure would determine to what extent inflammation is involved. A better description of the pathophysiology of this model would be that of a delayed neuropathic state developing after mild peripheral nerve trauma. In terms of general issues, the behavioral methodological details are unusually detailed and to aid readability of the manuscript, much could be moved to Supplemental Materials. The authors are to be congratulated in following very rigorous blinding procedures for the behavioral testing which often are lacking in the published descriptions of neuropathy models. These strengthen greatly the behavioral observations. A particularly interesting observation was the effect of estrogen-containing cream present on the experimenter on the pain behavior observed and further underscores the need for great care in limiting potentially confounding variables which reduce the fidelity of experimental observations. In spite of the detailed description of the experimental procedures, one question arises: do the authors believe that the injection site targets only the tibial nerve? If so, the exact testing location of the plantar surface will be important, i.e., whether in the tibial or sural nerve distribution. Many peripheral nerve models are characterized by sprouting from the adjacent sural distribution and this possibility needs to be evaluated. Additionally, there is a redundant exposition of experimental results: as just 2 examples, Figures 2 and 5 present the same data (Figure 2 is perhaps more useful for the reader) as do Figures 5-6. Streamlining the text and exposition of data, i.e. methods and results, would make the manuscript more readable. The “Summary of pain behavior” and “Conclusion” are redundant in my view. The conclusion in the discussion that this model is one of focal peripheral nerve injury is premature, as evaluation of the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia was not undertaken. The presence of contralateral behavioral findings, even within the sham group, implies that there is at the least critical spinal cord involvement in this pain model. The authors correctly point out that additional studies focusing on the central nervous system are needed to more completely define the pathophysiology of this model. The inclusion of EPO-mediated pain improvement raises more questions than it answers and appears almost as an afterthought. Unfortunately, there is not enough detail, especially at the pathological level, to confirm the effect is via “activation of repair”. The extremely fast response, occurring over a few days evidently, is not consistent with true repair which requires a much longer timespan. Additionally, the differentiation between local and systemic effects of EPO assumed in this study may not be correct. The dose of EPO administered (400IU/kg) is at the lower limit needed to exhibit beneficial effects in other neurological models and further, administration via the SC route would reduce the peak plasma EPO concentration. An intraperitoneal or intravenous route would have been preferable. Perhaps this observation would be better moved to supplementary material and speculation on the underlying biology limited. In conclusion, this model is interesting and the very detailed methodology makes it a useful addition to the study of pharmacological treatment of pain behavior. The clear distinction between classes of agents used as treatment for neuropathic symptom increase optimism that the model can be useful for screening potential efficacy of new compounds or evaluating novel methods of treatment using existing pharmacotherapy.