The authors of this paper have looked at trends in the pediatric morbidity and mortality prior to, during and after the 2014-15 Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The impact of large scale outbreaks on health systems remains a critical area of research, and the authors should be congratulated in contributing to this area of work. The comments below are intended to better contextualize the analysis and conclusions proposed by the authors. The authors divide the paper into three distinct time periods, with ‘post-Ebola’ defined as beginning in June 2016 and extending through April 2017. While the end of the Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone was declared in November 2015, there continued to be additional Ebola clusters in the country and the region into the ‘post-Ebola’ study period. The policy of mandatory Ebola testing for all deaths also continued until June 2016. During the ‘post-Ebola’ time period in the paper, there was an enormous influx of funding to improve health systems at both the facility and community levels that was organized under the Presidential Recovery Plan. This funding supported the national and sub-national health systems but was also supplemented by NGO and other non-governmental health services. By the end of 2017, there were substantial reductions in the funds available for health systems and service delivery. The continued specter of Ebola transmission and the rapid scale-up in health resources likely had both negative and positive impacts on health systems utilization that are difficult to quantify. The authors have documented significantly lower case fatality rates for three diseases than the pre-Ebola time period which would support the conclusion that there was regained community trust in the health services. However, those services were not the same ones available prior to the Ebola outbreak and the services are difficult to maintain with reduced external resources. In order to compare the pre and post-Ebola periods, I would recommend that the analysis be extended to the immediate post-Ebola period included in this paper as well as a longer-term post-Ebola period through 2018 which would better capture the more sustainable health system in Sierra Leone rather than the one served by a short-term, high-volume influx of external funding. Aside from the clear spikes in measles consultations, Figure 1 is difficult to interpret when displayed by time period. The differences may be more impactful if compared by disease instead. The analysis supports the conclusion that measles surged during and post-Ebola and this is backed up by other research and program documentation. However, it does not necessarily support the recommendation to extend the cut off age for vaccination. The recommendation to conduct laboratory confirmation for measles is also not necessarily supported by the data presented. Is this because a number of the measles outbreaks were determined to be rubella which is currently not on the vaccine schedule? If yes, this should be documented by the data. What would be the impact on measles morbidity if there was increased diagnostic versus syndromic management of measles? 