Manuscript titled "Effect of various organic acid supplementation diets on Clarias gariepinus BURCHELL, 1822: Evaluation of growth, survival and feed utilization" could be acceptable. Study design, data processing, writing, etc. are relatively good. However, some revisions need to be made to index the manuscript. Abstract Results: …were found for fish fed diets A-C and E - Kindly replace A-C with A,B,C …were not affected by any types of diet - write type instead of types Keywords: …. Survival rate, …Clarias gariepinus should be in italics Introduction Paragraph 2: Previous research stated that the use of …… - whose research? citation? … which help improve pepsin activity, thus enhancing... Paragraph 3: Since the word "generally" also means "commonly", please use one of those words … Previous research revealed that the values.... - whose research? citation? Paragraph 4: A strain of African catfish, Clarias gariepinus BRUCHELL, 1822 … - The species should be written as C . gariepinus …. on various feeds, such as plan material,... - material should be in plural form, please add 's' The role of organic acids should also be mentioned in the "Introduction" section. Methods Site and time: Then, the fish had been adapted and …. - should be "Then, the fish were adapted and ….. Experimental design Is it true that the study was repeated four times? Or do you mean "all treatments were designed in four replicates"? Fish culture and feeding trial: Again, kindly write diets A,B,C,D and E instead of diets A-E Regarding feed intake, how did you measure the feed intake? Was there any uneaten feeds? Measured parameters: Kindly replace "W0" with "Wo" and "N0" with "No"in the formula Results When you rewrite the scientific name of the species i.e. Clarias gariepinus , kindly use C . gariepinus . The same concern also applicable in Discussion section. Also check it in the Table 1. In Table 1 and Table 2, letter(s) ie. a,b.c should be written only when there was significant difference(s) among treatments. Therefore, FCR, FE and SR should not be highlighted with common superscript (a) since they were all statistically insignificant. Discussion Paragraph 2: … and tend to be inconsistent, depend on the …. - kindly write "depending on" instead of "depend on" 