This is an interesting paper describing a waterfowl winter community and its evolution through time. Authors use non-metric dimensional scaling to assess changes in community structure, taking into account environmental features (habitat, climatic, metheorological). The work seems adequately conducted and is based on a sound dataset that extends along 8 years. I find therefore the work worthy to be indexed. However, I have some concerns about how the work is presented. Overall, it has a too local focus and should be put in a wider context, with clear aims. I hope the following comments, by sections, will help authors to improve the current version. Abstract This section is particularly too local it should give a wider view of the work and its potential contribution beyond the study area. The authors propose a methodological approach that could be extended to other areas, to solve similar questions (i.e. how to assess changes in wintering waterfowl communities over time, in a scenario of climate change and increasing coastal development). The last paragraph of the discussion is written under this philosophy, and part of it could be used here. Of course its also important to depict the results, but they need to be better contextualized. Another issue to address is the excess of repetitions (the same problem is applicable to other sections of the manuscript). For instance, Narragansett Bay is quoted eight times in the abstract alone, and the analytical tool "nonmetric multidimensional scaling" is written in full three times (worth introducing here the acronym NMDS). Introduction Again I find the text too local. Only the first two sentences of paragraph 1, plus paragraph 4 attempt to put the study in a wider context. I suggest to join (and slightly extend) these wider issues at the beginning, as well as introduce afterwards the proposed methodological approach, and leave the local considerations for the end of the introduction (except for a final paragraph stating the aims of the paper, trying again to give a wider view and to describe clear objectives). The text in the current last paragraph related to the economic and environmental significance of Narrangansett Bay could be better suited (and slightly extended) in the discussion. On the other hand, some of the detailed information of the Bay could be moved to the Methods (study site/study method). As a last minor comment, itd be appropriate to provide a reference for the statement that Waterfowl respond to these stressors at the local up to the regional scale and their responses can be apparent nearly immediately and continue after substantial time lags (4 th paragraph). Methods Study site Remove the first sentence from this section (it describes the waterfowl survey, not the study site). Also consider, if necessary, to move some of the information provided in the introduction here, avoiding repetitions. Survey method Overall, try to be consistent with the verb forms. Most of this section is written in present tense, but some sentences use the past simple tense. In the 2 nd paragraph of this section, quote grebes along with ducks, geese and swans (Horned Grebe is also considered). Also in this paragraph, I suggest rewriting the last sentence, to start saying that in most cases birds were identified to species level. For instance: All birds were identified to the species level, except Lesser and Greater Scaups, that were simple categorized into a single Scaup (Aythya spp.) taxonomic group due to the difficulty of distinguishing them. Data analysis Just as a comment, I find that there are too many pre-selected ancillary variables, particularly NAO-related variables. I understand that this has a minor effect, however, as most of them were removed from the final model. On this regard, itd be worth explaining why a threshold of r = 0.8 was adopted. In the third paragraph of this section, Id suggest to change for in-depth discussion of methods see (Faith et al., 1987; Minchin, 1987) to (for in-depth discussion of methods see Faith et al., 1987; Minchin, 1987). Also change All analysis was conducted in R to All analyses were conducted in R Results Table 2. Check wording. For instance, at the end of the table caption, change were not be conducted to were not conducted. Id suggest changing the last column of the table to %, as this would be more visual for the reader. The last two sentences of the results section seem more appropriate for the discussion. This issue, on the other hand (stability of most sections/changes in section 2 over time) deserve some further attention in the discussion. Discussion Again Id slightly change the structure, and try to avoid excessive description. Id condensate the description of the waterfowl community site by site, trying to avoid references to conservation issues (e.g. implications of highly urbanized areas) here (see below). I feel a bit uneasy with the sentence In addition to species life history strategies, environmental factors can potentially influence waterfowl distribution in estuaries. I understand that some environmental factors (such as habitat features) are closely related to life history. So maybe change to ? Id add a paragraph regarding conservation-related issues, including coastal-development issues (i.e. the higher pressure in the inner Bay), as well as other relevant local considerations, plus references to climate change. Regarding the increase of Hooded Merganser and Bufflehead, why only the latter is discussed? I miss an explanation for the increase of Hooded Merganser too. On the other hand, I miss some more precision regarding the dates of eventsw regarding Bufflehead (e.g. when roughly- protection measures started to be in place?). And last regarding this issue, I dont understand why increased protection to buffleheads provides them a competitive advantage in the Bay. They increase in relative numbers, and therefore their rank position changes, but is this an actual advantage in the wintering area? I appreciate the considerations on the limitations of the study, as described in the penultimate paragraph.