The manuscript entitled “Evaluation of antimicrobial, antioxidant and cytotoxic properties of bioactive compounds produced from endophytic fungi of Himalayan yew ( Taxus wallichiana ) in Nepal” discusses isolation of endophytic fungi. Antimicrobial, antioxidant, and cytotoxic properties of bioactive compounds isolated from endophytic fungi is studied. The manuscript is clear, concise, and flows smoothly. However, there are minor corrections suggested before consideration of the manuscript for indexing. Suggestions Introduction section Sentence: Some research indicates various medicinal properties of T. wallichiana, such as analgesic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, antibacterial, antifungal, antiplatelet, antispasmodic activities antiallergic, anticonvulsant, antiosteoporotic, , and vasorelaxing effect 3 – 6 . Antispasmodic activities: remove activities in this sentence antiosteoporotic, ,: Remove one comma Method section Under the title “Molecular screening and phylogenetic analysis” in this sentence: The obtained pure DNA was run on 0.8% agarose gel electrophoresis and the bands were observed Suggestions: “Pure DNA” is a claim not supported by evidence, please replace it with genomic DNA instead. Replace the word “run” with “analyzed using” and remove the part that says the bands were observed. This description belongs to the result section. In the PCR amplification condition, please add the number of cycles to make the data reproducible. Units for volume and time are not consistent. There is space right after the number in some cases while there is no space in some other. Please make it consistent. For example in this section: PCR was performed using all reagents from Thermofisher, in a 25μl reaction mixture using 5 μl template DNA, 0.25 μl of 1.25 U Taq DNA polymerase, 2.5 μl of 10X Amplification buffer, 0.8μl of 10mM dNTP, 0.75 μl of 50mM MgCl2, 13.2 μl PCR grade water, 1.25μl of 10μM each of forward and reverse primer. PCR amplification was carried out in BioRad300 thermocycler. The thermo-cycling conditions involved an initial denaturation at 94C for 3 mins, 37 cycles of 30 secs at 94C, 30 secs at 55C, 1 min at 72C and a final extension at 72C for 5 mins. The PCR amplification products were analyzed by gel electrophoresis on 2% agarose (w/v). Initial tree(s) for the heuristic search were obtained by Neighbor-Join and BioNJ algorithms to a matrix of pairwise distances estimated using the Maximum Composite Likelihood (MCL) approach, and then selecting the topology with superior log likelihood value 19 . Result section In the following sentence: Sporormiella showed the highest colonization frequency accounting for 23% followed by Alternaria and Trichoderma with 15.4% each and the rest showed 7.7% each of colonization frequencies. The colonization frequencies are discussed. However, the colonization frequency is not discussed in the method section. Please describe the method used for the calculation of colonization frequency somewhere in the methods section. 