This manuscript by Gonalves-Pimentel et al. describes an impressive series of very elegant and demanding longevity experiments used to develop an innovative methodological algorithm to identify and rank candidate genes that are targeted by miRNAs and that shorten lifespan when downregulated in adult glial cells. The work presented offers a comprehensive comparison of different miRNA target databases and link those to the longevity analysis screen. Advantage of miRNA is targeting multiple genes at once. For instance by screening 200 miRNA lines, this examines effect of down-regulation of approximately 6000 genes. However this subsequently presents a challenge to determine which genes are targeted with a particular miRNA and which gene is accountable for a given phenotype. Therefore, here, Gonalves-Pimentel et al. produce an algorithm in which they link their miRNA lifespan screen results to multiple miRNA databases, with the final aim to rank genes that are predicted targets by these miRNA and that affect lifespan and ageing of the glial cells. Briefly, within each data base, each target score was multiplied by values of the lifespan screen results, and then ranking value for each target gene obtain for different data bases. Values obtained from all miRNA databases for each gene were summed for final ranking. This approach combined the effect of the miRNA on lifespan with the prediction of a gene being targeted by particular miRNA, using a variety of databases to strengthen the approach. Combining different databases is particularly important given a surprising difference in their target prediction. The top candidate from the screen is a gene garz , (mammalian orthologue of GBF1), for which they predict that its down-regulation in the glia shorten lifespan. Advantage of such approach is that it offers possibility for screening in an invertebrate organism to uncover genes potentially important in mammalian glia. garz is a target for three miRNA, miRNA-1 , miRNA-79 , and miRNA-315 . The authors carefully examine its affect in different population of glial cells, replicate shorter lifespan using two different garz RNAi lines, overexpress human GBF1 to rescue short lifespan by these different miRNAs. Downregulation of garz in adult glial cells also leads to significant impairment of fly motor functions. The authors expanded their characterisation of garz-RNAi overexpressor flies further to show accumulation of Ref(2)P and likely consequent alterations/enlargement of mitochondria. Overall this is a detailed and exhaustive study. The algorithm is clearly explained and well presented, and will certainly be useful in other miRNA studies and will inspire its adaptation to other miRNA screens. Moreover the authors developed a valuable list of genes that when down-regulated in glia impact lifespan. This is a really significant resource and dataset that the authors present and should be commended for. I only have a few minor points: Were the longevity analysis done using males or females flies? Why do the authors think that some of their predictions actually resulted in lifespan extension rather than shortening? Could the down-regulation of given gene have different outcomes when it occurs in concert with other miRNA gene target downregulation? Could this be commented in discussion perhaps? How easily can their method be adapted for a different screen using a different output, such as for instance miRNA screen for stress resilience? In the ageing field, lifespan extension is a gold standard to detect anti-ageing genes and interventions. Could the authors comment on finding genes that extend lifespan in glia rather than shorten it? The authors say” Recently, it has been shown that siRNA knockdown of GBF1 causes intracellular APP accumulation in primary cortical neurons” , could they please define APP. In Figure 1 and 2 driver names are not very visible, could this be improved for clarity or genotypes be written in full perhaps? In Figure 3A, it is not very visible what the arrows is pointing at, at least not in my downloaded version of the article. Overall, this is a very valuable resource for anyone working on miRNA and glial cell. This research is an excellent example how screens in invertebrate organisms can lead to discoveries of important biological functions of mammalian orthologues. 