McCulloch et al. addressed whether stroke patients treated with IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) had factors associated with antibody-mediated antibacterial defences compromised. Based on their results, the authors conclude that IL-1Ra does not alter circulating immunoglobulin and complement factors in patients’ blood, thus the treatment is not expected to further aggravate stroke-associated infection. The addressed issue is of pivotal importance for stroke patient treatment, especially for treatment protocols using anti-inflammatory agents. Post-treatment complications have contributed to the unsuccessful clinical translation of promising anti-inflammatory compounds that proved effective in experimental models. In its present form, the work presents some weakness that the authors should tackle. Data are presented as the minimum or maximum levels of immunoglobulins and complement factors observed in a 7 day-period after stroke. Blood was sampled at admission (prior to treatment) and at 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5-7 days after stroke. I think that, being so many sampling times available, and post-stroke inflammation quickly changing over time, a picture of the temporal changes in treated vs. non-treated patients would be very informative. As such, I suggest: - to add the information on when min (or max) concentrations were reached in each condition, comparing them; - to add a statistical analysis for repeated measures comparing IL-1Ra patients’ sampling at each time after treatment vs. admission (prior to treatment). Had patients received recanalization therapies? Since the temporal window of IL-1Ra for some patients is still within that of thrombolytic therapies (4.5h), the authors should explain why they did not receive them if so. From what I can understand, the specimens used come from a trial registered in 2000, thus likely explaining the use of the placebo in patients eligible for recanalization therapies according to present guidelines. I think that this needs clarification in the text. There is a big difference in placebo vs. IL-1Ra treated patients in the frequency of haemorrhagic stroke (0% vs. 29.4%). Did the authors consider to correct for this potentially impacting difference? The measure of complement components may be biased. Indeed blood specimens were collected in the presence of heparin, which does not represent the standard for running unbiased complement protein analysis. Complement proteins and activation products should be measured in blood sampled in the presence of EDTA (Bergseth et al. , 2013 1 ). In complement system biology, the decrease of circulating levels of recognition molecules in acute phases is generally regarded as an index of complement activation (through consumption of the circulating proteins binding their targets). On later times, circulating levels also mirror increased synthesis and they may increase. This should be considered when discussing the observations relative to complement measures. Moreover, complement system activation in stroke patients is reported in the first 6h (Zangari et al. , 2016 2 ), therefore a comparison of admission vs. later sampling in IL-1Ra treated patients would be informative (do they recover to control physiological complement protein levels as expected?). There is now a general consensus that the lectin pathway of complement activation is that mainly involved after ischemic stroke. This has been reviewed in Orsini et al. (2014 3 ) and Fumagalli and De Simoni (2016 4 ). Besides MBL, the lectin pathway comprises other recognition molecules such as ficolins and collectin-11, that play a major role in ischemic patients (especially ficolin-1 and ficolin-3; refer to the above mentioned reviews). In this regard the conclusions drawn by the authors that: ‘As concentration of MBL itself was not significantly altered by stroke, this suggests the classical complement activation is specifically activated after stroke’ sounds incorrect. Of note, MBL concentrations are genetically determined and about 20% of the general population bears variants causing MBL deficiency (Garred et al. , 2006 5 ). Indeed in figure 4C the authors show MBL levels below the detection limit. It is acknowledged that a circulating level of MBL 500 ng/mL is associated with MBL genetic variants (Eisen et al. , 2008 6 ). Thus it is not surprising that no MBL changes were observed. A more clear analysis could be done excluding the MBL-deficient patients. Interestingly, these latter patients develop less ischemic lesion volume and deficits than those with normal MBL circulating levels (Osthoff et al. , 2011 7 ), thus further supporting lectin pathway critical contribution to stroke pathophysiology. 