This is an interesting retrospective study of an extensive series of colorectal cancer patients and authors are to be congratulated on undertaking this academic endeavour. Nevertheless there are several points that need to be addressed. A major concern is that all stages of the disease have been included. In general a comparison between stage I and IV, for example, has no meaning clinically and the only statement that one can make is that thrombocytosis is more common. Another major concern is that no multivariate analysis is done or presented. Some other specific points: The title mentions specifically stage II disease (as the authors probably recognize the importance of prognostic factors in this sub-group for therapeutic decisions) but no statistical comparison is offered anywhere in the article. In any case the number of patients with thrombocytosis in this group (5) is prohibitive for definite conclusions. In the last line of the Abstract and in the Discussion it should be: treated as stage III or even better considered for adjuvant chemotherapy (stage IV patients are treated with palliative intent). Data on tumor grade and location have been collected (dataset) but not summarized or presented in the article. It would be of particular interest to present and include in an eventual multivariate analysis tumor location (right versus left from the splenic flexure versus rectal). In Patients and methods the normal range of platelets in authors institution should be mentioned. In the Results it would be interesting to provide the mean and SD of the platelet number in the 2 groups (normal and thrombocytosis). In fig. 2 there is a discrepancy between HR and p values in the body and the legend. In addition the numbers at risk do not match. Is that a mistake in calculations or data missing? Authors should address this. In the 4 th line of the 1 st paragraph of the Discussion the reference does not seem to be correct. Same with reference 6 in the 2 nd paragraph. In the discussion on metastatic patients - this is an over-simplification. If any useful comparison is to be made, other data have to be entered in the equation such as oligometastatic versus polymetastatic disease and treatments. Treatments should be mentioned. For example have all stage III patients received adjuvant chemotherapy? And have any of the stage II patients received any such treatment? In the 4 th paragraph of the Discussion the explanation of false negative node examination is improbable as there is no reason to suspect that such false negative occurs more commonly in patients with thrombocytosis. Instead a difference in biology as briefly discussed in the next paragraph is more probable. 