In “A cross-sectional study of the use and effectiveness of the Individual Development Plan among doctoral students,” the authors present a survey of graduate students conducted with the intention of determining experience with, and attitudes toward, Individual Development Plans. Given the widespread use of IDPs in the biomedical sciences, this study has the potential to provide insights that could improve the career planning process for many PhD students. Like reviewer 1, I am concerned that the overly-negative conclusions in this paper are influenced by the inclusion of irrelevant respondent populations. Therefore, in addition to the revisions suggested by reviewer 1, I recommend the following modifications: It is perhaps unsurprising that overall usage of the IDP is low given that only 76.5% of respondents were in the life/biological/medical sciences programs. While it’s possible that the 23.5% of respondents in physical/applied sciences are in programs that require or encourage IDP completion, these students are likely unaffected by the NIH mandate mentioned in the introduction. As such, the author should not use this sample to imply that low IDP usage indicates a failure in NIH policy, as suggested by the first two sentences of the discussion. Given the valid concerns that reviewer 1 has expressed, the authors should reanalyze their data to exclude respondents who have no experience with IDPs (assuming that the survey instrument did not do this already). While survey instrument did not address this question directly, the authors could at least take a subset of respondents who answered affirmatively to Q2 or Q3. If my calculations are correct, 50% of this subset finds the IDP process helpful for career development. Therefore, when the analysis is confined to students with confirmed IDP experience, the outlook for the IDP is less bleak than the tone of the paper makes it out to be. The assessment of the value of the IDP should be placed into the context of overall cost of its implementation (which I suspect is extremely low). Assuming that 50% of students that complete it annual benefit from it, this is (in my opinion) a good payoff for a very small number of hours of work for mentors and students. I would be interested to read the author’s comments on cost/benefit ratio of this intervention. In the discussion, the authors express concern that the IDP has been implemented without an attending study of the benefits. Later in the same section, they call for widespread career development infrastructure and “extensive” expansion of “Train-the-Trainer” events; to abide by their own logic, they should provide evidence that this change is supported by data. Again, the benefits of these interventions should be placed into the context of their cost. 