In this study, Al-Bairmany et al attempt to explore the effect of neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) on Disease Free Survival (DFS) in patients with breast cancer. In this retrospective study, the authors find that high NLR correlates with poor DFS, suggesting its use as a prognostic marker in breast cancer. While the study attempts to address an important question, that of a clinically unmet challenge of finding robust biomarkers that can predict/prognosticate breast cancer survival, the manuscript is poorly written and referenced, the results are inadequately presented with not enough information in either the methods, figure legends or the plots to derive and interpret the information and results. While the authors claim that the prognostic role of NLR is controversial, they do not discuss the controversy adequately either in the introduction or discussion. For specific comments, please refer to the point-by-point review below. Many Grammatical errors, choice of words and awkward sentence structure make it very difficult to read through and review and manuscript, starting from the abstract. We advise the authors to kindly revise the manuscript thoroughly and correct the language such that the reviewers can focus on critiquing the data rather than the linguistic shortcomings of the manuscript. Additionally, several references are missing (as highlighted in the comments below) making It difficult to get a solid understanding of the background through cross-referencing. Also, a lot of these references are outdated and the field has progressed profoundly in the last few years. The authors need to thoroughly review recent literature. Abstract: Please amend sentence to: “the relationship between neutrophil-lymphocyte ration (NLR) and outcome is controversial”. Also, do the authors mean Survival outcome? If yes, please clarify. Please amend to: “this study aims to explore the relationship between NLR…”. Also, the authors mention PLR in the same sentence. However, unlike NLR, they do not clarify why the relationship between PLR and “outcome” (DFS?) is important. They need to introduce PLR alongside NLR. What does “lowest period of follow-up” mean? 40 months was the shortest time between diagnosis and follow-up? Introduction: “Animal models suggest “immune-editing” in which activation of immune mechanisms control the tumor, but over time lead to the selection of tumor cells that escape the immune pressure and grow progressively.” I am not sure if the authors here are trying to define immune-editing, suggesting that immune-editing has been shown in animal models or implicating immune-editing as a therapeutic option for when tumor cells evade the immune system? “Tumors are heterogeneous, and the antigens on cells of one tumor are variable, even within the same patient, so the down-regulation of major histocompatibility complex molecules and other components of the antigen-presentation process can occur.” I am not sure how tumor heterogeneity in terms of antigen variability can contribute to down-regulation of the major histocompatibility complex? Are the authors trying to say that cells can express variable antigens even within the same tumor and that some of these antigens can be immune-suppressive through their down-regulation of the MHC? How can the expression of Fas ligand by tumor cells, while maintaining immune privilege, also induce apoptosis? Are the authors suggesting that the apoptosis is induced in the surveilling immune cells? Also, the authors need to provide a reference for this claim. The authors need to provide reference for “Tumor cells lead to the release if many cytokines…antitumor immunity” The authors cite Rayman et al to talk about tumor cells skewing the immune response to Th2 phenotype. This a 2004 paper and the field has since shifted to suggest that the contribution of these phenotypes to cancer is fluid and controversial. We urge the authors to review the most recent literature on the subject and state the facts with the most recent/accurate references. Please provide reference for “the evidence of the relationship between inflammation and cancer prognosis….even breast cancers”. The authors need to include more information on other studies that have done the NLR and PLR analysis in breast or other cancers and what these results are. Results: “Local recurrence had the lowest rate”? Are the authors talking about rate of incidence? The term "Lowest rate" is vague. All panels of Figure 1 need p-values. How do we know if the survival is significant between different groups if the appropriate statistical analysis has not been depicted in the figures or at least mentioned in the legends? Figure 1B: Is this correct that patients with stage T1 tumors with less aggressive tumors have worse prognosis than stage 2, which is more aggressive? Please explain this outcome. Figures 1E-F: What are Q1-Q4? Please make this clear in the figure and the legend. Without knowing what these are how can we interpret the robustness of the data or appreciate the differences in survival? Figure 1G: Why is the red curve cut short? One would expect a tail with patients that have an NLR of greater than 2.194? Also, how was the cutoff value of 2.194 determined? This information is missing from Methods. Neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio or NLR: were these derived from blood samples or biopsies? As demonstrated in other cancers such as brain tumors,the presence of neutrophils in the blood versus in the tumor can predict response to treatment. The authors need to mention in their methods where the neutrophils, lymphocytes and platelets are derived from (blood, biopsy etc) and explain how they were quantified. Also, the patients who were included in the study, are they treated in any way i.e. surgery, radiation and chemotherapy? The therapeutic strategy also affects DFS and as such should be explicitly stated by the authors. 