The novel sequencing techniques now allow for assessing a much larger fraction of the microorganisms a host is carrying. In the past, an investigation of the gastrointestinal microbiota of an animal would rely either on the culturable fraction of microorganisms, or laborious cloning and sequencing. The paper by Strong et al . uses amplicon sequencing of the 16sRNA gene for detecting and characterizing the microbiome of a wild duck fecal sample. The resulting data is compared to a water sample from another pond, and referenced to the existing literature to identify possible human and animal pathogens. I have some concerns with this paper. First, naturally, is the very limited sample size. With only a single sample from each of the two entities, it is problematic to tackle within-host and between host variability, and any temporal variation present in the data. Furthermore, the duck and the pond water sample were collected by different methods, which also may affect template DNA purity and yield, and the samples are not from the same site. The authors focus the majority of the paper on what potential human pathogens the duck is carrying. This is interesting, as many human pathogens have animal reservoirs and identifying them may lead us to better understand their epidemiology. There is a range of human pathogens identified, and the authors make recommendations based on these findings. However, recommendations need to be thoroughly justified by data, and in at least one case I did not find the link to human infection proven. This is Campylobacter canadensis that in table 2 is said to cause drinking water related disease. However, the reference cited for this claim does not discuss C. canadensis , but waterborne outbreaks in general. The methods/result sections could be made more informative. Every method has its cons and pros, and it would help the reader to illustrate how it was made sure the primers and protocol used were suitable for bird fecal microbiota. Have they been validated on avian fecal samples before? It is not presented clearly how many sequences that were obtained, how many that were possible to bin to different species/genera etc. Surprisingly, the duck host is not presented in any detail at all. I am not familiar with Aythya americana , as it is restricted to North America, but there are a number of Aythya species in Europe, all of which are diving ducks, often feeding to a large extent on bivalves and other mollusks, and not really dabbling in the surface water. This will likely influence the potential exposure of A. americana feces to humans, and should be taken into account in the recommendations given in the paper. As a biologist, I am also curious to know why these bacteria are in the bird, and what they do there – are they commensals, or pathogens? What has been found in other bird species? This is not discussed in the present version. Taken together, the data should be considered with some caution as it is based on such a small sample set and conclusions from comparisons should therefore be toned down. Preferentially, the study should be extended to include more avian samples. Minor things: Title: Very little in this article actually refers to animal disease, which makes the title slightly misleading. Introduction : It would be good if the host could be put in a larger perspective here, and that previous work on ducks as carriers of human-associated bacterial pathogens are cited to a larger extent. The ornamental/decorative fountains are unlikely significant duck habitats. Figure 1 : Are the numbers referring to percentages? And is it not more a table than a figure? Please check bird names and bacterial names and make sure species names are not starting with capital letters (e.g. Aythya americana , not Americana etc). 