The purpose of this study was to investigate the composition of microorganisms found on cannabis samples and compare the ability of different culture based testing platforms with a qPCR method. Although the study provides some valuable data into some of the short comings of culture based methods it has some experimental design weaknesses that make it difficult to draw strong conclusions from this data set. Introduction: Since the purpose of the study is to discuss the difference between a qPCR based microbial testing platform with culture based methods the introduction should focus more on discussing this in other industries. For example it's becoming well known that only a small percentage of organisms that exist in nature are easily cultured on the most common forms of media used. Rapid advances in sequencing are allowing metagenomic analysis of soil and plant microbiomes which also demonstrates the limitations of culturing methods. Issues like specificity between qPCR and culture based methods should be highlighted. Methods: Plant material - Nowhere in the methods section is any information provided about the cannabis plant material. Was it cannabis flowers? Were they dried? Was the sample homogenized in anyway? Information about all the samples used in this study should be summarized in a table or in a section within the methods part of the manuscript. Results: Table 1- This table highlights one of the main criticisms I have with this study. There are no replicates. These results seem to be based off a single analysis of each sample. Therefore we can't conclude anything about the reproducibility of the qPCR platform compared to the other platforms. It is also interesting to note that most of the culture based methods detected levels of fungi that would be considered failures while most of the qPCR samples detected only low levels of fungal DNA. It is difficult to follow from reading through the text of the manuscript which samples were analyzed by metagenomic sequencing. Every sample analyzed by metagenomic sequencing and a summary of their results, in terms of what species were detected and their approximate amounts, should be summarized somewhere in the manuscript for ease of reference and completeness of data presentation. Why those samples were chosen should be discussed. Throughout the results section numbers of samples are discussed but we don't know if those are the same samples or which samples shown in Table 1. For example page 7 paragraph 2: "First, we observed that although Aspergillus species were present in 15 plant samples (average proportion: 25% of classified reads), they were only detected at low levels in three samples after culturing on either 3M or BMX media (average proportion: 1.1% or 0.4% of classified reads, respectively).". Which 15 plant samples? This kind of vague reference to samples needs to be corrected and be made more clear. Page 6, sequence reproducibility: "14 samples". Which samples? Page 6, paragraph 4: "Pairs of samples from three of the seven growers....". Which detected fungi were commonly found and correlated? Page 7, Figure 1: Why just discuss 2 and 14? Why not 7-13 or 15-16? To summarize I would like to see more error bars (or +-) from replicates and more complete summaries of data and samples information. 