The lack of Cost of Illness studies for Colombia makes this study particularly important. The societal perspective makes it even more valuable. The paper has a good structure that covers briefly but clearly the basics on how costs are estimated. Although I would suggest having another read of the whole text and probably get it checked by an editor would help correct some usage errors that change the meaning of the text. For example, differentiated is a more mathematical term. Disaggregated could be a better word. The first introductory paragraph mentions the prevalence CCHD with late diagnosis corresponds to a USA statistic which might be important to mention. It is likely that in a developing country could be different, probably higher. The methods section could benefit from more clarity, particularly on the assumptions and decisions made. I am sure the study team had good reasons in making their decisions but is highly recommended that those reasons are clearly stated. For example, it is said that statistical tests were not performed without an explanation of why this was decided. Later in the text, seven CCHD conditions were selected based on a cost-effectiveness of screening for CCHD in the USA but is not stated why is this also considered a good selection for Colombia. The time horizon used seems quite short, particularly because the criteria to select this period are not presented. Like other types of economic analyses in health, a clear description of the time horizon and the reasons for selecting a specific value should be included. Hospital costs were estimated from observed data which is a valuable source. It is mentioned that observed use of services was validated by experts. There is no description of criteria used to categorise a person as an expert nor the methods used for the validation. Observed data may be considered data of higher quality relative to experts’ opinion. It is not clear how discrepancies between both were solved. Moreover, the way the base case was constructed is poorly described. Moreover, a description of the contents and quantities of services included in the base cases is not presented. The sources of prices are a Tariff Manual used by an already extinct institution. It is not clear why the 2001 tariff is inflated for a specific value. This might be important because not all contracts among insurers and providers are negotiated using these prices. Furthermore, it is not clear that prices in this tariff manual are really reflecting the costs of production of health services. Out of pocket expenditure is a big added value of the present study. The review of the survey used might have some problems, but I am not sure if this is because key questions got lost in translation. The interview is available in English. Probably the questions are well formulated in Spanish, although in English looks clunky. Despite this issue, I think is likely that monthly income might not be correctly estimated. Did the households income was estimated by adding the reported incomes? Routine household surveys could be used as an example of how income is estimated. It is not clear how the weighing of out-of-pocket expenses was made. Regarding the results I would suggest presenting a weighted average for each condition instead of a simple average. I believe is important to describe what the non-surgical events include. Figure 1 describes the relation between reported income and indirect costs. Although the graph selected might not be the best option it presents interesting data. A chart or table with like this one relating out-of-pocket expenditure to the household income would be valuable. It was mentioned in the introduction that some of the expenses were subsidised by the FCI foundation. That assertion makes necessary to present how much of the out-of-pocket expenditure was subsidised and to whom. The economic burden of these conditions seems to be extraordinarily high, probably sinking more into poverty families with children affected with CCHD. Is possible that subsidies received by the poorest families kept them in a better economic situation. The discussion should reflect on some important aspects such as the short time horizon selected, the recall bias on the survey, the impact on the estimates of the differences in data sources or the lack of other statistical analyses. Also, what I consider the most valuable contribution of this study is the estimation of out-of-pocket expenditure, which the authors did not reflected upon in the discussion. This COI study finds an extremely high economic burden in the first year, which way above the 10% usually used as a threshold for driving families into poverty. A reflection on the financial protection that the Colombian Health System is providing would be interesting. Finally, a reflection on how the producing estimates from a single source might affect the precision of the estimates. If the results presented here are to be used by decision-makers, what does an estimate from a single source that is a private provider in the capital city of the country might affect the estimates. Is it possible that costs in other cities might differ? Unfortunately the methodological description is too shot and not entirely described. It is not possible to reproduce the results because the lack of descriptions in the methods. My congratulations to the research team for a fantastic effort and looking forward to their discussion and considerations of the suggestions presented here. 