The title: “II. Capsular vaso-mimicry formed by transgenic mammary tumor spheroids implanted ectopically into mouse dorsal skin fold: implications for cellular mechanisms of metastasis” does not seem to be appropriate, because authors did not observe metastasis in their study. The authors observed the collagen-producing fibroblasts encapsulating the tumor spheroids that led to a form of vaso-mimicry in the subcutaneous environment. The authors speculate that such capsular vaso-mimicry could potentially facilitate metastasis by fusing with morphologically similar lymphatic vessels or veins. I think that the authors’ opinion that vaso-mimicry may be involved in tumor metatstasis is well presented in their abstract, but this speculation shouldn’t be presented in the title. In the abstract, I suggest to remove the text “co-implantation of lactating breast tissue created stimulating microenvironment “, because this study is not focusing on finding in the microenvironment of lactating breast tissue. Did the authors observe lymphatic vessels in close proximity to structures similar to the vasculogenic mimicry which contained non-circulating erythrosomes formed between tumor nodules? Did authors observe the different cells, e.g. pericytes, macrophages etc. in their study? If yes, it will be valuable to add into the abstract and results section. The methods are well documented, except there is little information about the chamber and how cells were implanted into the chamber. Better descriptions of techniques can help to readers to understand why authors studied tumor spheroids implanted ectopically into mouse dorsal skin fold. In the results section (8th sentence: “Occasionally some blood cells were in close contact with supporting nucleated cells “), - I suggest being more specific which type of blood cells and supporting nucleated cells were observed in their study and rewrite this sentence. I suggest adding arrows, arrowheads and other symbols to the figures, figure legends, and text to indicate exactly which cells are being discussed. Or the authors may switch the B/W Figure 1 with a color Figure S1. This type of correction should be carried on to all other figures.