The paper reports studies with red blood cells (RBC) of rainbow trout infected with Viral Haemorrhagic Septicaemia virus (VHSV). RBC most likely do not support propagation of VHSV and immune responses to the pathogen were small by magnitude. Still, experiments and analyses were well designed and implemented, applied diverse methods and therefore publication will be useful and interesting for experts in the area. Major comment Suppression of innate antiviral immunity in infected RBC is included in the abstract as one of the key findings. However, of several genes analysed with qPCR only ifn1 showed down-regulation and only at one time-point. Other genes exhibited at best a slight tendency and differences from control were small. Reference to high variation is not convincing and does not overcome the lack of significance. Delete sentence “It is noteworthy to highlight the elevated inter-individual variability found in trout RBCs immune response, for most of the proteins and genes assayed, which could prevent to obtain statistical significance in most of the cases although regulations were apparent” (pages 9-10), this statement is trivial. MM do not tell if each RBC culture was from an individual animal. If not, then variation was technical by character suggesting problems with methods. I also suggest to delete or at least shorten discussion of viral suppression of IFN-dependent responses in fish (page 16, 1 st paragraph). I would emphasize strong induction of ROS scavengers as most impressive result of this study. Specific comments Figure 2. Indicate method in the legend – qPCR? Change label of Y-axis: fold instead of fold of increase. Figure 4. The number of replicates (n = 6) is too small for regression and correlation analyses. I strongly suggest to plot empirical data, trend lines alone are not convincing. Judging from the figures, ifn1 levels were in the range from 0 to 15. Units should be explained. Furthermore, it is unclear how such differences was achieved taking into account minor responses of ifn1 to IHNV in trout RBC. Figure 10. Explain grey and black bars in the legend. Page 16. Delete paragraph “It is noticeable that the iTRAQ-based protein…” – no need to explain that proteomic analyses fail to detect low abundance proteins including cytokines. Page 17, 1 st paragraph. NFkB can be mentioned but extensive discussion is not warranted since study did not produce any experimental data for this gene or protein. “It is evident that the antiviral response of RBCs is low compared to other cells of the immune system” – this statement is wrong. Virus infected fish RBC develop immune responses of huge magnitude. “Inter-individual variability” – if RBC cultures represented individuals, this must be explicitly stated in MM (see comment above). Given small number of replicates, discussion of high and low responders is not supported with data. 