Overview The authors present comprehensive benchmarking of clustering tools in R on real and simulated single-cell RNA-seq datasets. Their work includes performance, stability and run time analysis. Furthermore, they also investigate whether combining results from different methods increases performance. Major comments Throughout the entire manuscript the authors should make it clear that only clustering tools available in R were investigated. This is important, as there are quite a number of popular python applications for clustering of single cell RNA-seq data available. Like Jean Fan, I am concerned about the appropriateness of the Trapnell et al. dataset and the Zheng et al. 10x datasets. Furthermore for the Zheng et al. dataset, I would like to know why the authors did not use all 10 pre-sorted cell populations available? Furthermore, how did the authors choose which cell populations to combine for their Zhengmix4 and Zhengmix8 datasets? Minor comments The authors show nicely that Seurat is not very strongly affected by gene filtering. Could this be a result of its clustering approach being based on the 500 most variable genes? On page 7 in the paragraph “Run Times vary widely between methods” the authors use Adjusted Rand Index instead of its already introduced abbreviation Could the size of Figure 5 be increased? Why did some methods get raw and some methods log-transformed normalized counts? Consider changing Supplementary Figure 2 to a visual representation that represents size differences between sets, like UpSetR plots. On page 10 the authors say: ”In addition, no apparent association between the similarity of the clusterings and the type of input or dimension reduction or underlying type of clustering algorithm was found.” Could the authors explain in more detail how this analysis was performed. On page 6, the authors speculate that there are stronger signals that dominate clustering in the Trapnell et al dataset that are not time points. What could these be? Have the authors investigated cell cycle? 