Cohen and Marron present a concept of evolution that centers on interactions on different level - molecular, cellular, organismal etc. - which are perceived as a universal anti-entropic force. Entropy is understood as a tendency for increasing disorder and is viewed as the principal selective factor in evolution. The antientropic evolution is postulated to be 'universal', hence no neutral evolutionary processes. The authors, then, forward the principle of 'survival of the fitted' whereby all biological entities that counter entropy with sufficient success to remain in an ordered state survive. Although not exactly new (indeed, it goes back to Boltzmann who the authors duly cite!), the notion of the fundamental nature of the antientropic tendencies in evolution is worth putting forward. More specifically, the emphasis on interactions permeating the entire biological organization as a universal antientropic factor is worthy and might appeal to many biologists as a fresh perspective eon the general character of evolution.. However, I find several areas within and around these where concepts where I feel compelled to mount criticisms, and not altogether minor ones. First, to me, the 'survival of the fitted' appears to be a non sequitur. Let us say, everything is fine with entropy as a selective factor and interactions, but why not survival of the fittest, that is, those that counteract entropy most efficiently and, as a result, leave more progeny than others? Second, in all their discussion of entropy, the authors refer only to classical,equilibirum thermodynamics. As far as I can see, this discussion cannot be complete without taking into account the concepts of non-equilibrium thermodynamics, in particular, maximization of entropy production and dissipative structures. The literature on these subjects is extensive, starting with Prigogine. Third, to me, it is inexplicable how and why, when discussing the pivotal roles of interactions at different levels in evolution, the authors fail to include Maynard Smith-Szathmary's concept of major transitions in evolution (Ref. 1 1 and references therein) and, especially, the generalized form of this concept that comes uncannily close to the concept of interactions-driven evolution discussed here 2 . Fourth, I believe that, along with the key role of interaction, it is essential for developing a general concept of evolution, to consider competition between interactions on different scales and the resulting frustrated states 2 . Finally, more with respect to the presentation of the material. The figures in the current manuscript are over-simplified and, overall, underwhelming. Figure 1 is a trivial illustration of the concept of entropy and is superfluous (readers unfamiliar with the second law will not benefit from reading this article) whereas for Figures 2 and 3, more elaborate schemes are advisable. 