This study assesses monocyte function following isolation of these cells from total peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) using positive or negative immunomagnetic selection. It addresses an important topic, because cell isolation procedure may affect cell function and skew conclusions obtained from in vitro studies of immune cells isolated from blood. Despite a limited assessment of functions and isolation methods, this study should have an impact on selection of monocyte isolation protocol when these cells are intended for investigation of specific responses, which this study tested. The study design is appropriate and conclusions drawn are adequately supported by the results. The paper may be improved, however, by providing more details in methods, raw data and discussion, and by careful revision of citations as detailed below: Methods: Cytometic bead array: there are several cytometric bead arrays available for human samples (e.g. “human inflammatory cytokine kit”, “human chemokine kit”). Which one was used? Legend for Figure 1 indicates that 5 samples were pooled. It would be helpful to provide details on how the pooling was done (the entire samples, equal volumes, equal proportions?) and what dilutions were made for the assay. Live cell imaging: It appears that information in methods contradicts the data shown in Figure 2. According to the figure and supplied raw data, imaging was performed over a course of over 76 hours, while methods section states “48 hours”. Raw data: Data for Figure 1: it might be easier to understand the data if columns were labeled by cytokine and sample (e.g. IL8 negative selection, IL8 positive selection, etc. as opposed to IL8B, IL8C, etc.) Data for Figure 2: were 36 fields for each sample for each time point individually counted, as the information on the figure indicates? Raw data appears to have only the averages. Was the distribution of counts tight, or was there high variation? Including raw data for individual field counts might be more appropriate. Discussion: Another option to positively isolate monocytes is to use anti-CD33 instead of anti-CD14 coated beads. This may be more appropriate in studies that aim to measure response to LPS, when positive selection is preferred (e.g. in cases of limited sample from which sequential separation of different lymphocyte subsets is desired). It might be worthy to discuss this option. Citations: Several citations throughout the paper appear to be inaccurate; for example, in Introduction some citations on altered behavior of cells following microbead attachment: (1) Safarik and Safarikova is a method review, and Horgan et al. is a protocol; neither studies cell behavior; (2) Semple et al. observed no functional changes in limited tests they did; the difference that they report pertains to CD19+ vs CD19- cells, not positively isolated vs negatively isolated cells; (3) Fuchslin et al. labeled bacterial cells for their quantification in water; and Ribaut et al. labeled parasites for their isolation from infected blood for research purposes; the relevance of these two citations for the present study may be questionable. In Discussion, Adams et al. describe a special case of MACS for multitarget sort, and may not be appropriate for referencing commonality of magnetic sorting. While the results from the present study are consistent with gene expression studies by Beliakova-Bethell et al. in terms of effects of positive selection, the reference to Beliakova-Bethell et al. is made following description of Neu et al. and Elkord et al. studies, stating that the findings were similar. This is not accurate because Neu et al. and Elkord et al. performed functional assessment following cell separation, while Beliakova-Bethell et al. lysed the cells immediately after isolation and did not measure cell function. Instead of the statement of similarity of findings, it might be worth pointing out that positive selection affects monocytes the most both in the short term and in the long term. 