Supporting the development of a realistic perception of research by pupils is crucial in our aims to inspire the next generations of scientists, and to scientifically engage well-informed next generations of the public at a level necessary for the benefit of everyone (e.g. in context of economy, healthy lifestyle, openness towards technology, sustainability) and having been enabled to evaluate relevant pros and cons when making decisions. Therefore, it is necessary to understand current perceptions, how they arise, how they may change and how they relate to the pupils' engagement with research. An analysis of how the concept of research is embedded in the curriculum, whether research is portrayed as valuable and accessible, and how the educational environment affects pupils' perceptions of research allows to constructively suggest ways forward in the quest. The authors shall be thanked for this important contribution to the field. The aims of the research are clear and well supported by methodology (fully ethically cleared). The questionnaires were piloted and optimised before the large survey. The Abstract summarises the article well. The Introduction sets the scene very well, and the Materials and Methods section was mostly clear including the parameters of the institutions. The very interesting findings are well presented in the Results section. For instance, Table 4 provides a clear mapping of learning outcomes at key stages against the used framework. It visualises how perception and understanding of research should progress through key stages. This then is found in the questionnaire data (e.g. pupils value research more as they progress through education). How research is referred to/not referred to in the curriculum and by exam boards is an interesting finding. The authors also emphasise issues around the use of the term ‘research’ (fact finding vs. novel enquiry) and related consequences in context of e.g. preparing pupils for transition into HE, pupils' understanding of the notion of research-led teaching when selecting their future HEI. A further issue highlighted by the authors is the need for pupils to better understand that research should be unbiased, that a research question is the starting point and how a sound research question is arrived at (and how e.g. the new Extended Project Qualification may support an improved understanding). Teachers were found to mostly correctly gauge their pupils' perception except for whether pupils feel they do research in school, whether pupils find research challenging and whether research is seen as useful by pupils for their future career (importantly here: pupils indeed see the benefit). An encouraging (women in STEM context) finding is that there is no difference in perception between genders. I would like to approve the article and to suggest some minor changes to be made in a revision of the current manuscript. The authors have already provided a contextual discussion of their findings, but have not yet discussed the potential impact of the responders on the data or explained how such impact may have been limited. This needs to be added, because responses are likely provided by a self-selecting group (e.g. 2634 from 6000 pupils; teachers [does the subject background matter?]; institutions already being part of the project). There is also a statement that the study is part of the students’ learning experience about research. How might this have affected responses? I think it would add further value to the figures and make them more self-explanatory if n-values were added as well as a visual indication if there are significant differences in responses; and adding figure legends that state related findings such as response trends (without the actual data, which remain reported in the text as they already are) regarding gender, KS, teacher responses. Some general indication of how 'agree' and 'disagree' responses compare with the reported 'strongly agree/ disagree'/'unsure' would be useful. There are two further points regarding the Materials and Methods section, which the authors may also wish to address when making changes to the current version of the manuscript. The words "and the interview audio recordings and transcripts" could be removed to avoid confusion, because these are unrelated to the reported analysis and only relate to subsequent work. The section "The representation of research in the national curriculum for science in England and the examination board specifications covering the mapping of the national curriculum" could be part of Materials and Methods rather than Results. 