This paper describes the results of an important pilot study using 800 alumni records to develop a uniform taxonomy to classify career outcomes of PhD graduates across institutions. Success in developing such a survey instrument will allow uniform reporting, aggregation of data and meaningful comparisons. Attempts were made to address ambiguities in some categories of the taxonomy, including the addition of a flag system. There still remained discordance among the coders even among those who went through a training exercise. The inter-rater reliability did not improve significantly from Experiment 1 to 2. In career outcomes there is the constant challenge to balance the use of broad categories and the degree of granularity necessary to generate meaningful data. Comments: In Table 1 the Workforce Sectors are broad: Academia, Government, For-Profit, Non-Profit, Other. This classification is based mainly on the nature of the Employer and should be fairly straight-forward to bin. Consider adding Self-employed. Workforce Sector would be a Level 1 Bin . The next level of classification within each Workforce Sector could be based on the Job Title , rather than Career Type and Job Function. This would be a Level 2 Bin and easy to code from drop-downs of typical job titles. A Job Title is easier to bin and often provides a good definition of the Job Function. A challenge that needs to be addressed are multiple job functions. In this regard Professor as a Job Title is an ideal career type as they all carry out three main job functions: teaching, research and administration all to various extents. Some Professors are also entrepreneurs and start companies. The use of Career Type: Primarily Research or Primarily Teaching at this level is not useful. Indeed, over a career trajectory the mix of teaching, research and administration for a Professor may change, yet the Career Type and does not. Determining whether a professor is primarily Research or Primarily Teaching could be difficult to determine, even based on the Carnegie classification of Institutions. Similarly, in the Private Sector the Job Title: Research Scientist could describe a dynamic mix of research and administration typical of people working in this sector. Placing individuals in the proper Job Titles using pre-populated drop-down menus should be straight-forward. The current Table 3 Job Function is a muddle of job titles and job functions. I would not put Deceased and Retired under the same function! The Level 3 Bin could now be Job Function under Job Title. This could gleaned from a search of the LinkedIn profile for pre-determined key words. Here, job functions such as Research, Teaching or Administration could be useful. Using the term primarily may be difficult to assess, other than what is already obvious for the Job Title (e.g., Manager, Director, V-P, etc.). Further Training or Education should include Post-doctoral Fellow and Professional Schools as the two main categories where PhDs go. The average time to classify at under 2 minutes seems very short. The goal of this project involves the classification of thousands upon thousands of PhD alumni (big data) from institutions across the USA and is an ideal application of AI through machine learning to find meaningful patterns and classifications into bins. It would be useful to compare the results of the current project with the results obtained by computer neural networks using the same training data set. 