Pathological characteristics of skin lesions in bovine digital dermatitis and Morgellons disease (MD) show strong similarities. As the role of spirochetal infection in bovine digital dermatitis is established in a comparative analysis, the authors examined the presence of spirochetes in Morgellons disease. They detected Borrelia spirochetes in skin lesions in four randomly selected Morgellons patients who were seroreactive to Borrelia burgdorferi . For the detection of spirochetes various techniques were used, including histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy and polymerase chain reaction. They conclude that spirochetal infection may be a significant factor in the illness and refute claims that the symptoms of patients are delusional and that Morgellons skin lesions are self-inflicted. This is an important work showing invasion of skin lesions by spirochetes in four Morgellons patients with positive Borrelia serology. The manuscript is well written, and importantly, the authors used various techniques for the detection of spirochetes, which is crucial for such a study. Their results are convincing and only a few and minor comments or changes are suggested, and some propositions for future research. I share the opinion of the authors that these skin lesions are not self-inflicted and they do not correspond to delusional parasitosis. Infection is a significant factor in their pathogenesis. 1. “Representative non-biopsy dermatological specimens” or “representative tissue sample” might be better defined: In the Material and Methods it might be useful for those who would like to perform similar studies to indicate the site of tissue samples, their size and also how they were taken and how they were stored until the analysis. 2. With respect to the detailed histopathological findings of these patients, the authors refer to their previous report (Middelveen et al ., 2013) but an inflammatory component of skin lesions cannot be found, probably as skin biopsy was not performed. In future studies, the presence of an inflammatory reaction might be important to analyze as it will support an infectious origin of skin lesions. 3. Figures and figure legends Figure 1: B) With respect to the keratin filaments of bovine digital dermatitis (BDD), it would be useful to insert the method used or refer to a previous publication. Figure 2: Representative tissue sample – should be more precise. It is not clear whether panel A is a histological section or not? Paraffin or frozen section from skin lesions? Figure 3: Panels A and B were both taken from the same region of a sample from patient 2. The presence of spirochetes is convincing, however the large “spirochete” in panel B is not comparable to the group of spirochetes seen in the center. I would suggest removing panel B. Figure 5 : Panel B: Heat shock instantly induces atypical and agglutinated forms of spirochetes, therefore, this panel is not representative to show cultured spirochetes. I would recommend removing this panel. The authors have enough other convincing results. It is not necessary for the study. C: Probably the spirochete was visualized by immunofluorescence using Borrelia -specific antibody. This should be mentioned. 4. " Although a study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found no evidence that pathogens play a role in MD, the search for spirochetal pathogens in that study was confined to Warthin-Starry staining on limited tissue samples and commercial serological testing for Borrelia burgdorferi 31 . Tissue staining in that study was performed on samples from patients who reportedly did not have confirmed clinical evidence of MD 32 , and serological testing was interpreted in accordance with Lyme surveillance criteria that are inappropriate for clinical diagnosis 33 . Thus the findings in the CDC study were influenced by failure to examine the appropriate group of patients and by the clinical insensitivity of surveillance testing for tickborne disease 32,33 . These limitations leave open the possibility that a spirochetal association with MD could have been missed in the CDC study. " The work done by the “Unexplained Dermopathy Study Team” was an important initiative and a well organized and executed work (Pearson et al ., 2012), however the population examined in the study was indeed not homogeneous enough, which can make the interpretation of the results difficult. In case definition, to consider the presence of the unusual blue, red or white filaments and if possible, the same stage of skin lesion, would be important. That the authors of this paper examined four Morgellons patients with a positive serology for Borrelia burgdorferi and the case definition of CDC study did not include positive serology for this spirochete may also explain why they did not find Borrelia in their cases. The discrepancy of the results may also be explained if, following the example of bovine digital dermatitis (Dpfer et al ., 2012) we anticipate that various types of Treponema species might also be involved in MD. Perhaps the authors may wish to mention that further studies in this direction would be useful. Indeed spirochetes are present not only in ticks but in various other ectoparasites as well. Morphologically diverse populations of spirochetes are abundant and consistently present in termite hindguts (Paster et al ., 1996; Ohkuma et al ., 1999; Breznak, 2002). Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato was also detected in mites (Netusil et al ., 2005). Spirochetes were detected in lice and also in snails around lakes and fresh waters (Sitnikova et al ., 2012). Both humans and cattle are at risk for infection. 5. “ Filament formation results from abnormal keratin and collagen expression by epithelial-based keratinocytes and fibroblasts”; "Like BDD, MD filaments are produced by epithelial cells and stem from the stratum basale and from the root sheath of hair follicles, thus providing evidence that the filaments are cellular in origin. Furthermore, immunohistochemical and histological staining has demonstrated that these filaments have a collagen as well as a keratin component 5,17 . ” I would suggest to stay open with respect to the origin of dark and white filaments and just refer to the literature “it was suggested” or “reported” (References) as we have not enough data for a definite conclusion. Helminths show similar properties to those of Morgellons filaments. They show morphological similarities, they are birefringent, they show autofluorescence, and contain keratin- (Shibui et al ., 2001; Shinn et al ., 1995; Cottee et al ., 2006) and collagen-like proteins (e.g. Johnston, 1994; Yang et al ., 2012; Kingston and Pettitt, 1990). In schistosomiasis the coexistence of blue and white adult worms is well known. Particularly, the adult female is frequently described as a dark or dark-blue elongated filament (Figure 1 in Kol et al ., 2010), and cercarial forms (Figure 3 in Savely et al ., 2006), might also occur in Morgellons disease. The skin manifestations of cercarial dermatitis or swimmer’s itch caused by bird schistosomes are also similar. Compare the skin manifestations in a Morgellons patient with a patient having cercarial dermatitis or swimmer’s itch. I would encourage research in this direction. Recent findings show that the parasite may migrate throughout the viscera and the nervous system of mammals, suggesting that the pathogenicity of Trichobilharzia may have been underestimated in the past (Horak et al ., 2002). Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic infections worldwide. One should also consider that several helminths can infect together. 6. Melanin pigments are produced by a broad variety of microorganisms, including bacteria, fungi, and helminths (Taborda et al ., 2008, Esposito et al. , 2012) and a high amount of melanin accumulates in the host around invading worms and cercaria (Babu and Hall, 1974), In this view the Fontana-Masson-stained section from patient 3 from a previous work of the authors (see Figure 3 in Middelveen et al ., 2013) demonstrating positive melanin staining “of blue filament sections (arrow)” might be compatible with helminthiasis. 7. Epidermal parasitic skin diseases occur worldwide and a wide range of parasitic infections can involve the skin and subcutaneous tissues, including protozoa, trematodes, cestodes, nematodes and arthropods (Goldsmid and Melrose, 2005). Despite the considerable burden caused by them, they have been widely neglected by the scientific community and health-care providers (Feldmeier Heukelbach, 2009). The WHO has included them in a program to remediate this situation. Following the various findings available with respect to 'Morgellons disease' it seems that various parasites should be considered and investigated in each case. Efficient treatments would be available. In order to contribute to this goal and to avoid controversies, open discussions will be necessary. Further research is essential. References 1. Cogswell AA, Kommer VP, Williams DL: Transcriptional analysis of a unique set of genes involved in Schistosoma mansoni female reproductive biology. Plos One. 2012; 6 (11). PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 2. Babu JP, Hall JE: Histochemical Staining of Melanin Formed in a Mayfly in Response to Helminth Infection. J. Intervertebrate Pathol. 1974. 123-124 Reference Source 3. Breznak JA: Phylogenetic diversity and physiology of termite gut spirochetes. Integr Comp Biol . 2002; 42 (2): 313-318 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Cottee PA, Nisbet AJ, Abs El-Osta YG, Webster TL, et al.: Construction of gender-enriched cDNA archives for adult Oesophagostomum dentatum by suppressive-subtractive hybridization and a microarray analysis of expressed sequence tags. Parasitology . 2006; 132 (Part 5): 691-708 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Döpfer D, Anklam K, Mikheil D, et al. : Growth curves and morphology of three Treponema subtypes isolated from digital dermatitis in cattle. Vet J. 2012; 193 (3): 685-93 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Esposito R, D’Aniello S, Squarzoni P, Pezzotti MR, et al.: New Insights into the Evolution of Metazoan Tyrosinase Gene Family. Plos One. 2012; 7 (4). PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 7. Feldmeier H, Heukelback J: Epidermal parasitic skin diseases: a neglected category of poverty-associated plagues. Bulletin of the World Health Organization . 2009; 87 (2): 152-9 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 8. Goldsmid JM, Melrose W: Parasitic infections of the skin. Primer of Topical Medicine . Reference Source 9. Horák P, Kolárová L: Biology of the schistosome genus Trichobilharzia. Adv Parasitol. 2002; 52 : 155-233 PubMed Abstract 10. Johnstone IL: The cuticle of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans: a complex collagen structure. Bioessays. 1994; 16 (3): 171-8 PubMed Abstract 11. Kingston IB, Pettitt J: Structure and expression of Ascaris suum collagen genes: a comparison with Caenorhabditis elegans. Acta Trop. 1990; 47 (5-6): 280-7 PubMed Abstract 12. Kolárová L, Horák P, Skírnisson K: Methodical approaches in the identification of areas with a potential risk of infection by bird schistosomes causing cercarial dermatitis. J. Helminthol . 2010; 84 (3): 327-35 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Middelveen MJ, Kahn DG, Stricker RB: Characterization and evolution of dermal filaments from patients with Morgellons disease. Clinical, Cosmetic and Investigational Dermatology. 2013; 6 : 1-21 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 14. Netusil J, Zákovská A, Horváth R, Dendis M, et al.: Presence of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato in mites parasitizing small rodents. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2005; 5 : 227-232 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 15. Ohkuma M, Lida T, Kudo T: Phylogenetic relationships of symbiotic spirochetes in the gut of diverse termites. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 1999; 181 : 123-129 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 16. Paster BJ, Dewhirst FE, Cooke SM, Fussing V, et al.: Phylogeny of not-yet-cultured spirochetes from termite guts. Appl Environ Microbiol. 1996; 62 : 347-352 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Reference Source 17. Pearson ML, Selby JV, Katz KA, Cantrell V, et al.: Clinical, epidemiologic, histopathologic and molecular features of an unexplained dermopathy. PLoS One. 2012; 7 : e29908 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 18. Savely VR, Leitao MM, Stricker RB: The mystery of Morgellons: infection or delusion?. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2006; 7 : 1-5 PubMed Abstract | Reference Source 19. Shibui A, Takamoto M, Shi Y, Komiyama A, et al.: Cloning and characterization of a novel gene encoding keratin-like protein from nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2001; 1522 : 59-61 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 20. Shinn AP, Gibson DI, Sommerville C: A study of the composition of the sclerites of Gyrodactylus Nordmann, 1832 (Monogenea) using X-ray elemental analysis. Int J Parasitol. 1995; 25 : 797-805 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 21. Sitnikova T, Michel E, Tulupova Y, Khanaev I, et al.: Spirochetes in gastropods from Lake Baikal and North American freshwaters: new multi-family, multi-habitat host records. Symbiosis. 2012; 56 : 103-110 Publisher Full Text 22. Taborda CP, da Silva MB, Nosanchuk JD, Travassos LR: Melanin as a virulence factor of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and other dimorphic pathogenic fungi: a minireview. Mycopathologia. 2008; 165 : 331-339 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text 23. Yang Y, Jin Y, Liu P, Shi Y, et al.: RNAi silencing of type V collagen in Schistosoma japonicum affects parasite morphology, spawning, and hatching. Parasitol Res. 2012; 111 : 1251-1257 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Miklossy J. Reviewer Report For: Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :25 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.304.r867 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1#referee-response-867 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (2) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 28 Jan 2013 Author Response 11 Mar 2014 Raphael Stricker , University of New Haven, West Haven, CT, USA 11 Mar 2014 Author Response Reply from Raphael B. Stricker, MD, and Marianne J. Middelveen, Mdes: We would like to address the "Objection" to our study of Morgellons disease that was posted by Steven Salzberg on ... Continue reading Reply from Raphael B. Stricker, MD, and Marianne J. Middelveen, Mdes: We would like to address the "Objection" to our study of Morgellons disease that was posted by Steven Salzberg on the F1000Research website. Salzberg has a PhD in computer science and appointments in genetic medicine, biostatistics and computer science at Johns Hopkins University. Based on his comments he appears to have limited knowledge of the recent medical literature about Morgellons disease and limited understanding of the sophisticated scientific methods used in our study to demonstrate the presence of the Lyme disease spirochete, Borrelia burgdorferi , in patients with Morgellons disease. Salzberg starts by praising the deeply flawed CDC and Mayo Clinic Morgellons studies, which were extensively criticized in the Discussion section of our article and elsewhere 1 . For example, the retrospective CDC study by Pearson et al. failed to identify patients with dermopathy, used insensitive serological testing and limited tissue staining in an attempt to detect spirochetal infection, and failed to include specific culture or PCR testing for B. burgdorferi in any of their patients 1,2 . The retrospective Mayo Clinic studies by Hylwa et al. noted that patients with “delusional” dermopathy had a high rate of psychiatric symptoms and no evidence of “infestation”. However comparable rates of psychiatric symptoms occur in patients with other chronic non-delusional medical conditions, suggesting that the symptoms are the result rather than the cause of the condition, and specific testing for spirochetal infection was not performed 1,3 . Thus these flawed studies failed to look for the right infection in the right patients using the right techniques. Salzberg goes on to say that our article is "little more than 4 PCR results", ignoring the detailed culture, immunohistochemical and electron microscopical evidence presented in this study and in our previous investigations of Morgellons disease 4,5 . He then misinterprets the PCR data, somehow confusing it with the study of Australian Morgellons patients who had spirochetes in their lesions that were shown to be Borrelia garinii by PCR in one case 6 . In fact, the Australian study confirms that B. burgdorferi strains are associated with Morgellons disease 6 . In the Discussion section of our article we made it clear that we had not subtyped the B. burgdorferi PCR sequences because we were only using PCR to confirm the extensive and convincing scientific findings in the rest of the study that point to B. burgdorferi involvement in Morgellons disease. Thus the weight of scientific evidence confirms an association between B. burgdorferi and Morgellons disease. We think that it is irresponsible and antiscientific for Salzberg to characterize our careful, detailed, multifaceted and peer-reviewed article as "pseudoscience", and his "Objection" has no merit. In contrast, the link between Morgellons disease and B. burgdorferi infection merits further scientific investigation. References: 1. Stricker RB, Middelveen MJ. Morgellons disease: More questions than answers Psychosomatics . 2012;53(5):504-5. 2. Pearson ML, Selby JV, Katz KA, Cantrell V, et al , for the Unexplained Dermopathy Study Team. Clinical, epidemiologic, histopathologic, and molecular features of an unexplained dermopathy. PLoS One 2012;7(1):e29908. 3. Hylwa SA, Foster AA, Bury JE, Davis MD, et al . Delusional infestation is typically comorbid with other psychiatric diagnoses: review of 54 patients receiving psychiatric evaluation at Mayo Clinic. Psychosomatics 2012; 53(3):258–265. 4. Middelveen MJ, Stricker RB: Filament formation associated with spirochetal infection: a comparative approach to Morgellons disease. Clin Cosmet Investig Dermatol 2011; 4:167–177. 5. Middelveen MJ, Rasmussen EH, Kahn DG, Stricker RB: Morgellons disease: a chemical and light microscopic study . J Clin Exp Dermatol Res 2012; 3:140. 6. Mayne P, English JS, Kilbane EJ et al. (2013) Morgellons: a novel dermatological perspective as the multisystem infective disease borreliosis [v1; ref status: approved 1, approved with reservations 1, not approved 2 , http://f1000r.es/116 ] F1000Research 2013, 2:118 (doi: 10.12688/f1000research.2-118.v1 ) Reply from Raphael B. Stricker, MD, and Marianne J. Middelveen, Mdes: We would like to address the "Objection" to our study of Morgellons disease that was posted by Steven Salzberg on the F1000Research website. Salzberg has a PhD in computer science and appointments in genetic medicine, biostatistics and computer science at Johns Hopkins University. Based on his comments he appears to have limited knowledge of the recent medical literature about Morgellons disease and limited understanding of the sophisticated scientific methods used in our study to demonstrate the presence of the Lyme disease spirochete, Borrelia burgdorferi , in patients with Morgellons disease. Salzberg starts by praising the deeply flawed CDC and Mayo Clinic Morgellons studies, which were extensively criticized in the Discussion section of our article and elsewhere 1 . For example, the retrospective CDC study by Pearson et al. failed to identify patients with dermopathy, used insensitive serological testing and limited tissue staining in an attempt to detect spirochetal infection, and failed to include specific culture or PCR testing for B. burgdorferi in any of their patients 1,2 . The retrospective Mayo Clinic studies by Hylwa et al. noted that patients with “delusional” dermopathy had a high rate of psychiatric symptoms and no evidence of “infestation”. However comparable rates of psychiatric symptoms occur in patients with other chronic non-delusional medical conditions, suggesting that the symptoms are the result rather than the cause of the condition, and specific testing for spirochetal infection was not performed 1,3 . Thus these flawed studies failed to look for the right infection in the right patients using the right techniques. Salzberg goes on to say that our article is "little more than 4 PCR results", ignoring the detailed culture, immunohistochemical and electron microscopical evidence presented in this study and in our previous investigations of Morgellons disease 4,5 . He then misinterprets the PCR data, somehow confusing it with the study of Australian Morgellons patients who had spirochetes in their lesions that were shown to be Borrelia garinii by PCR in one case 6 . In fact, the Australian study confirms that B. burgdorferi strains are associated with Morgellons disease 6 . In the Discussion section of our article we made it clear that we had not subtyped the B. burgdorferi PCR sequences because we were only using PCR to confirm the extensive and convincing scientific findings in the rest of the study that point to B. burgdorferi involvement in Morgellons disease. Thus the weight of scientific evidence confirms an association between B. burgdorferi and Morgellons disease. We think that it is irresponsible and antiscientific for Salzberg to characterize our careful, detailed, multifaceted and peer-reviewed article as "pseudoscience", and his "Objection" has no merit. In contrast, the link between Morgellons disease and B. burgdorferi infection merits further scientific investigation. References: 1. Stricker RB, Middelveen MJ. Morgellons disease: More questions than answers Psychosomatics . 2012;53(5):504-5. 2. Pearson ML, Selby JV, Katz KA, Cantrell V, et al , for the Unexplained Dermopathy Study Team. Clinical, epidemiologic, histopathologic, and molecular features of an unexplained dermopathy. PLoS One 2012;7(1):e29908. 3. Hylwa SA, Foster AA, Bury JE, Davis MD, et al . Delusional infestation is typically comorbid with other psychiatric diagnoses: review of 54 patients receiving psychiatric evaluation at Mayo Clinic. Psychosomatics 2012; 53(3):258–265. 4. Middelveen MJ, Stricker RB: Filament formation associated with spirochetal infection: a comparative approach to Morgellons disease. Clin Cosmet Investig Dermatol 2011; 4:167–177. 5. Middelveen MJ, Rasmussen EH, Kahn DG, Stricker RB: Morgellons disease: a chemical and light microscopic study . J Clin Exp Dermatol Res 2012; 3:140. 6. Mayne P, English JS, Kilbane EJ et al. (2013) Morgellons: a novel dermatological perspective as the multisystem infective disease borreliosis [v1; ref status: approved 1, approved with reservations 1, not approved 2 , http://f1000r.es/116 ] F1000Research 2013, 2:118 (doi: 10.12688/f1000research.2-118.v1 ) Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Objection Reader Comment 13 Oct 2013 Steven Salzberg , McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, USA 13 Oct 2013 Reader Comment This article contains very serious scientific flaws and should never have been published. The disorder called 'Morgellons Disease' (MD) was only recently described based on patients' own self-diagnoses, and it ... Continue reading This article contains very serious scientific flaws and should never have been published. The disorder called 'Morgellons Disease' (MD) was only recently described based on patients' own self-diagnoses, and it has been examined extensively and found to have no physical basis. The CDC reported ( http://www.cdc.gov/unexplaineddermopathy/ ) that the fibers on the skin of patients were clothing fibers. They also found that "Upon thorough analysis, most sores appeared to result from chronic scratching and picking, without an underlying cause". The CDC and a recent review from the Mayo Clinic ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22264448 ) concluded that MD is a form of delusional parasitosis, and that patients complaining of Morgellons likely need psychiatric treatment. The authors of this study deny the published evidence, and instead are trying to claim that MD is caused by a form of chronic Lyme disease. Chronic infection with B. burgdorferi , like MD, has been shown in multiple studies to have no scientific basis. The evidence presented in this article is little more than 4 PCR results, of which one showed no evidence of B. burgdorferi , one was weakly positive, and two were positive. The sequences amplified, which are shown in the Opinion article ( http://f1000research.com/articles/2-118/v1 ) but not here, supposedly have BLAST alignments to another Borrelia species, B. garinii, but the alignments are so weak that they could easily represent other common skin bacteria. The authors also fail to explain why the sequences don't match B. burgdorferi , the primary Lyme disease spirochete. Thus even their positive samples don't match the right species. The claims and assertions made in this article are not only flawed, but they represent dangerous pseudoscience. Patients could easily be misled into taking long-term antibiotics for a condition that instead requires psychiatric care or other treatment. This article contains very serious scientific flaws and should never have been published. The disorder called 'Morgellons Disease' (MD) was only recently described based on patients' own self-diagnoses, and it has been examined extensively and found to have no physical basis. The CDC reported ( http://www.cdc.gov/unexplaineddermopathy/ ) that the fibers on the skin of patients were clothing fibers. They also found that "Upon thorough analysis, most sores appeared to result from chronic scratching and picking, without an underlying cause". The CDC and a recent review from the Mayo Clinic ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22264448 ) concluded that MD is a form of delusional parasitosis, and that patients complaining of Morgellons likely need psychiatric treatment. The authors of this study deny the published evidence, and instead are trying to claim that MD is caused by a form of chronic Lyme disease. Chronic infection with B. burgdorferi , like MD, has been shown in multiple studies to have no scientific basis. The evidence presented in this article is little more than 4 PCR results, of which one showed no evidence of B. burgdorferi , one was weakly positive, and two were positive. The sequences amplified, which are shown in the Opinion article ( http://f1000research.com/articles/2-118/v1 ) but not here, supposedly have BLAST alignments to another Borrelia species, B. garinii, but the alignments are so weak that they could easily represent other common skin bacteria. The authors also fail to explain why the sequences don't match B. burgdorferi , the primary Lyme disease spirochete. Thus even their positive samples don't match the right species. The claims and assertions made in this article are not only flawed, but they represent dangerous pseudoscience. Patients could easily be misled into taking long-term antibiotics for a condition that instead requires psychiatric care or other treatment. Competing Interests: None Close Report a concern Comment ADD YOUR COMMENT keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 Version 1 28 Jan 13 read read read Judith Miklossy , Alzheimer Prevention Foundation, Martigny-Croix, Switzerland Bernhard Zelger , Medical University Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria John English , Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK Comments on this article All Comments (2) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2013 English J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 03 Apr 2013 | for Version 1 John English , Department of Dermatology, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK 0 Views copyright © 2013 English J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved - Disclosure Comment info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions It would be nice to know if treating the Borrelia helped the Morgellons disease? Publishers note added on 19 Apr 2013: Since the publication of this referee report, a potential conflict of interest has come to light. It appears that just prior to John English completing his report, he and Peter Mayne had been collaborating on another manuscript. Following the publication of the article by Middelveen et al. in F1000Research , Peter Mayne asked Raphael Stricker to become an additional author on this subsequent manuscript, which has since been submitted to F1000Research with Stricker, Mayne and English among the authors. Given this potential conflict of interest, the original referee status has been greyed out on this report but the comments of the reviewer on the article are still accessible. Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 English J. Peer Review Report For: Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :25 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.304.r760) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1#referee-response-760 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2013 Zelger B. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 03 Apr 2013 | for Version 1 Bernhard Zelger , Department of Dermatology, Medical University Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria 0 Views copyright © 2013 Zelger B. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Zelger B. Peer Review Report For: Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :25 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.304.r876) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1#referee-response-876 
 
 keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2013 Miklossy J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 03 Apr 2013 | for Version 1 Judith Miklossy , International Alzheimer Research Center, Alzheimer Prevention Foundation, Martigny-Croix, Switzerland 0 Views copyright © 2013 Miklossy J. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Pathological characteristics of skin lesions in bovine digital dermatitis and Morgellons disease (MD) show strong similarities. As the role of spirochetal infection in bovine digital dermatitis is established in a comparative analysis, the authors examined the presence of spirochetes in Morgellons disease. They detected Borrelia spirochetes in skin lesions in four randomly selected Morgellons patients who were seroreactive to Borrelia burgdorferi . For the detection of spirochetes various techniques were used, including histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy and polymerase chain reaction. They conclude that spirochetal infection may be a significant factor in the illness and refute claims that the symptoms of patients are delusional and that Morgellons skin lesions are self-inflicted. This is an important work showing invasion of skin lesions by spirochetes in four Morgellons patients with positive Borrelia serology. The manuscript is well written, and importantly, the authors used various techniques for the detection of spirochetes, which is crucial for such a study. Their results are convincing and only a few and minor comments or changes are suggested, and some propositions for future research. I share the opinion of the authors that these skin lesions are not self-inflicted and they do not correspond to delusional parasitosis. Infection is a significant factor in their pathogenesis. 1. “Representative non-biopsy dermatological specimens” or “representative tissue sample” might be better defined: In the Material and Methods it might be useful for those who would like to perform similar studies to indicate the site of tissue samples, their size and also how they were taken and how they were stored until the analysis. 2. With respect to the detailed histopathological findings of these patients, the authors refer to their previous report (Middelveen et al ., 2013) but an inflammatory component of skin lesions cannot be found, probably as skin biopsy was not performed. In future studies, the presence of an inflammatory reaction might be important to analyze as it will support an infectious origin of skin lesions. 3. Figures and figure legends Figure 1: B) With respect to the keratin filaments of bovine digital dermatitis (BDD), it would be useful to insert the method used or refer to a previous publication. Figure 2: Representative tissue sample – should be more precise. It is not clear whether panel A is a histological section or not? Paraffin or frozen section from skin lesions? Figure 3: Panels A and B were both taken from the same region of a sample from patient 2. The presence of spirochetes is convincing, however the large “spirochete” in panel B is not comparable to the group of spirochetes seen in the center. I would suggest removing panel B. Figure 5 : Panel B: Heat shock instantly induces atypical and agglutinated forms of spirochetes, therefore, this panel is not representative to show cultured spirochetes. I would recommend removing this panel. The authors have enough other convincing results. It is not necessary for the study. C: Probably the spirochete was visualized by immunofluorescence using Borrelia -specific antibody. This should be mentioned. 4. " Although a study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found no evidence that pathogens play a role in MD, the search for spirochetal pathogens in that study was confined to Warthin-Starry staining on limited tissue samples and commercial serological testing for Borrelia burgdorferi 31 . Tissue staining in that study was performed on samples from patients who reportedly did not have confirmed clinical evidence of MD 32 , and serological testing was interpreted in accordance with Lyme surveillance criteria that are inappropriate for clinical diagnosis 33 . Thus the findings in the CDC study were influenced by failure to examine the appropriate group of patients and by the clinical insensitivity of surveillance testing for tickborne disease 32,33 . These limitations leave open the possibility that a spirochetal association with MD could have been missed in the CDC study. " The work done by the “Unexplained Dermopathy Study Team” was an important initiative and a well organized and executed work (Pearson et al ., 2012), however the population examined in the study was indeed not homogeneous enough, which can make the interpretation of the results difficult. In case definition, to consider the presence of the unusual blue, red or white filaments and if possible, the same stage of skin lesion, would be important. That the authors of this paper examined four Morgellons patients with a positive serology for Borrelia burgdorferi and the case definition of CDC study did not include positive serology for this spirochete may also explain why they did not find Borrelia in their cases. The discrepancy of the results may also be explained if, following the example of bovine digital dermatitis (Dpfer et al ., 2012) we anticipate that various types of Treponema species might also be involved in MD. Perhaps the authors may wish to mention that further studies in this direction would be useful. Indeed spirochetes are present not only in ticks but in various other ectoparasites as well. Morphologically diverse populations of spirochetes are abundant and consistently present in termite hindguts (Paster et al ., 1996; Ohkuma et al ., 1999; Breznak, 2002). Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato was also detected in mites (Netusil et al ., 2005). Spirochetes were detected in lice and also in snails around lakes and fresh waters (Sitnikova et al ., 2012). Both humans and cattle are at risk for infection. 5. “ Filament formation results from abnormal keratin and collagen expression by epithelial-based keratinocytes and fibroblasts”; "Like BDD, MD filaments are produced by epithelial cells and stem from the stratum basale and from the root sheath of hair follicles, thus providing evidence that the filaments are cellular in origin. Furthermore, immunohistochemical and histological staining has demonstrated that these filaments have a collagen as well as a keratin component 5,17 . ” I would suggest to stay open with respect to the origin of dark and white filaments and just refer to the literature “it was suggested” or “reported” (References) as we have not enough data for a definite conclusion. Helminths show similar properties to those of Morgellons filaments. They show morphological similarities, they are birefringent, they show autofluorescence, and contain keratin- (Shibui et al ., 2001; Shinn et al ., 1995; Cottee et al ., 2006) and collagen-like proteins (e.g. Johnston, 1994; Yang et al ., 2012; Kingston and Pettitt, 1990). In schistosomiasis the coexistence of blue and white adult worms is well known. Particularly, the adult female is frequently described as a dark or dark-blue elongated filament (Figure 1 in Kol et al ., 2010), and cercarial forms (Figure 3 in Savely et al ., 2006), might also occur in Morgellons disease. The skin manifestations of cercarial dermatitis or swimmer’s itch caused by bird schistosomes are also similar. Compare the skin manifestations in a Morgellons patient with a patient having cercarial dermatitis or swimmer’s itch. I would encourage research in this direction. Recent findings show that the parasite may migrate throughout the viscera and the nervous system of mammals, suggesting that the pathogenicity of Trichobilharzia may have been underestimated in the past (Horak et al ., 2002). Schistosomiasis is one of the most prevalent parasitic infections worldwide. One should also consider that several helminths can infect together. 6. Melanin pigments are produced by a broad variety of microorganisms, including bacteria, fungi, and helminths (Taborda et al ., 2008, Esposito et al. , 2012) and a high amount of melanin accumulates in the host around invading worms and cercaria (Babu and Hall, 1974), In this view the Fontana-Masson-stained section from patient 3 from a previous work of the authors (see Figure 3 in Middelveen et al ., 2013) demonstrating positive melanin staining “of blue filament sections (arrow)” might be compatible with helminthiasis. 7. Epidermal parasitic skin diseases occur worldwide and a wide range of parasitic infections can involve the skin and subcutaneous tissues, including protozoa, trematodes, cestodes, nematodes and arthropods (Goldsmid and Melrose, 2005). Despite the considerable burden caused by them, they have been widely neglected by the scientific community and health-care providers (Feldmeier Heukelbach, 2009). The WHO has included them in a program to remediate this situation. Following the various findings available with respect to 'Morgellons disease' it seems that various parasites should be considered and investigated in each case. Efficient treatments would be available. In order to contribute to this goal and to avoid controversies, open discussions will be necessary. Further research is essential. References 1. Cogswell AA, Kommer VP, Williams DL: Transcriptional analysis of a unique set of genes involved in Schistosoma mansoni female reproductive biology. Plos One. 2012; 6 (11). PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 2. Babu JP, Hall JE: Histochemical Staining of Melanin Formed in a Mayfly in Response to Helminth Infection. J. Intervertebrate Pathol. 1974. 123-124 Reference Source 3. Breznak JA: Phylogenetic diversity and physiology of termite gut spirochetes. Integr Comp Biol . 2002; 42 (2): 313-318 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Cottee PA, Nisbet AJ, Abs El-Osta YG, Webster TL, et al.: Construction of gender-enriched cDNA archives for adult Oesophagostomum dentatum by suppressive-subtractive hybridization and a microarray analysis of expressed sequence tags. Parasitology . 2006; 132 (Part 5): 691-708 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Döpfer D, Anklam K, Mikheil D, et al. : Growth curves and morphology of three Treponema subtypes isolated from digital dermatitis in cattle. Vet J. 2012; 193 (3): 685-93 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 6. Esposito R, D’Aniello S, Squarzoni P, Pezzotti MR, et al.: New Insights into the Evolution of Metazoan Tyrosinase Gene Family. Plos One. 2012; 7 (4). PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 7. Feldmeier H, Heukelback J: Epidermal parasitic skin diseases: a neglected category of poverty-associated plagues. Bulletin of the World Health Organization . 2009; 87 (2): 152-9 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 8. Goldsmid JM, Melrose W: Parasitic infections of the skin. Primer of Topical Medicine . Reference Source 9. Horák P, Kolárová L: Biology of the schistosome genus Trichobilharzia. Adv Parasitol. 2002; 52 : 155-233 PubMed Abstract 10. Johnstone IL: The cuticle of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans: a complex collagen structure. Bioessays. 1994; 16 (3): 171-8 PubMed Abstract 11. Kingston IB, Pettitt J: Structure and expression of Ascaris suum collagen genes: a comparison with Caenorhabditis elegans. Acta Trop. 1990; 47 (5-6): 280-7 PubMed Abstract 12. Kolárová L, Horák P, Skírnisson K: Methodical approaches in the identification of areas with a potential risk of infection by bird schistosomes causing cercarial dermatitis. J. Helminthol . 2010; 84 (3): 327-35 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Middelveen MJ, Kahn DG, Stricker RB: Characterization and evolution of dermal filaments from patients with Morgellons disease. Clinical, Cosmetic and Investigational Dermatology. 2013; 6 : 1-21 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Publisher Full Text 14. Netusil J, Zákovská A, Horváth R, Dendis M, et al.: Presence of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato in mites parasitizing small rodents. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2005; 5 : 227-232 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 15. Ohkuma M, Lida T, Kudo T: Phylogenetic relationships of symbiotic spirochetes in the gut of diverse termites. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 1999; 181 : 123-129 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 16. Paster BJ, Dewhirst FE, Cooke SM, Fussing V, et al.: Phylogeny of not-yet-cultured spirochetes from termite guts. Appl Environ Microbiol. 1996; 62 : 347-352 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text | Reference Source 17. Pearson ML, Selby JV, Katz KA, Cantrell V, et al.: Clinical, epidemiologic, histopathologic and molecular features of an unexplained dermopathy. PLoS One. 2012; 7 : e29908 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 18. Savely VR, Leitao MM, Stricker RB: The mystery of Morgellons: infection or delusion?. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2006; 7 : 1-5 PubMed Abstract | Reference Source 19. Shibui A, Takamoto M, Shi Y, Komiyama A, et al.: Cloning and characterization of a novel gene encoding keratin-like protein from nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2001; 1522 : 59-61 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 20. Shinn AP, Gibson DI, Sommerville C: A study of the composition of the sclerites of Gyrodactylus Nordmann, 1832 (Monogenea) using X-ray elemental analysis. Int J Parasitol. 1995; 25 : 797-805 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 21. Sitnikova T, Michel E, Tulupova Y, Khanaev I, et al.: Spirochetes in gastropods from Lake Baikal and North American freshwaters: new multi-family, multi-habitat host records. Symbiosis. 2012; 56 : 103-110 Publisher Full Text 22. Taborda CP, da Silva MB, Nosanchuk JD, Travassos LR: Melanin as a virulence factor of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and other dimorphic pathogenic fungi: a minireview. Mycopathologia. 2008; 165 : 331-339 PubMed Abstract | Free Full Text 23. Yang Y, Jin Y, Liu P, Shi Y, et al.: RNAi silencing of type V collagen in Schistosoma japonicum affects parasite morphology, spawning, and hatching. Parasitol Res. 2012; 111 : 1251-1257 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. reply Respond to this report Responses (0) 
 
 Miklossy J. Peer Review Report For: Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2013, 2 :25 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.304.r867) 

 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. 

 The direct URL for this report is:
 https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1#referee-response-867 
 
 Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved - the paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations - A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved - fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Adjust parameters to alter display View on desktop for interactive features Includes Interactive Elements View on desktop for interactive features Edit comment Competing Interests Cancel Save The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Your must enter a comment. References error. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Stay Updated Sign up for content alerts and receive a weekly or monthly email with all newly published articles Register with F1000Research Already registered? Sign in Not now, thanks close PLEASE NOTE If you are an AUTHOR of this article, please check that you signed in with the account associated with this article otherwise we cannot automatically identify your role as an author and your comment will be labelled as a User Comment. If you are a REVIEWER of this article, please check that you have signed in with the account associated with this article and then go to your account to submit your report, please do not post your review here. If you do not have access to your original account, please contact us . All commenters must hold a formal affiliation as per our Policies . The information that you give us will be displayed next to your comment. User comments must be in English, comprehensible and relevant to the article under discussion. We reserve the right to remove any comments that we consider to be inappropriate, offensive or otherwise in breach of the User Comment Terms and Conditions . Commenters must not use a comment for personal attacks. When criticisms of the article are based on unpublished data, the data should be made available. I accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions Please confirm that you accept the User Comment Terms and Conditions. Affiliation Please enter your organisation. Country* USA UK Canada China France Germany Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory British Virgin Islands Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Minor Outlying Islands of the United States Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands North Korea Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Is South Korea Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand The Gambia The Netherlands Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda UK Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Virgin Islands Uruguay USA Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Wallis and Futuna West Bank and Gaza Strip Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Please select your country. You must enter a comment. Competing Interests Please disclose any competing interests that might be construed to influence your judgment of the article's or peer review report's validity or importance. Competing Interests Policy Provide sufficient details of any financial or non-financial competing interests to enable users to assess whether your comments might lead a reasonable person to question your impartiality. Consider the following examples, but note that this is not an exhaustive list: Examples of 'Non-Financial Competing Interests' Within the past 4 years, you have held joint grants, published or collaborated with any of the authors of the selected paper. You have a close personal relationship (e.g. parent, spouse, sibling, or domestic partner) with any of the authors. You are a close professional associate of any of the authors (e.g. scientific mentor, recent student). You work at the same institute as any of the authors. You hope/expect to benefit (e.g. favour or employment) as a result of your submission. You are an Editor for the journal in which the article is published. Examples of 'Financial Competing Interests' You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, any of the following from any commercial organisation that may gain financially from your submission: a salary, fees, funding, reimbursements. You expect to receive, or in the past 4 years have received, shared grant support or other funding with any of the authors. You hold, or are currently applying for, any patents or significant stocks/shares relating to the subject matter of the paper you are commenting on. Please state your competing interests The comment has been saved. An error has occurred. Please try again. Cancel Post 
 .at-icon-wrapper {
 background-size: 100% !important;
 }
 
 var lTitle = "Association of spirochetal infection with...".replace("'", '');
 var linkedInUrl = "http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle) + "&summary=" + encodeURIComponent('Read the article by ');

 var deliciousUrl = "https://del.icio.us/post?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 var redditUrl = "http://reddit.com/submit?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1" + "&title=" + encodeURIComponent(lTitle);

 linkedInUrl += encodeURIComponent('Middelveen MJ et al.');
 
 var offsetTop = /chrome/i.test( navigator.userAgent ) ? 4 : -10; 
 var addthis_config = {
 ui_offset_top: offsetTop,
 services_compact : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_expanded : "facebook,twitter,www.linkedin.com,www.mendeley.com,reddit.com",
 services_custom : [
 {
 name: "LinkedIn",
 url: linkedInUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_linkedin.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Mendeley",
 url: "http://www.mendeley.com/import/?url=https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1/mendeley",
 icon:"/img/icon/at_mendeley.svg"
 },
 {
 name: "Reddit",
 url: redditUrl,
 icon:"/img/icon/at_reddit.svg"
 },
 ]
 };


 var addthis_share = {
 url: "https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25",
 templates : {
 twitter : "Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease. Middelveen MJ et al., published by " + 
 "@F1000Research"
 + ", https://f1000research.com/articles/2-25/v1"
 }
 };

 if (typeof(addthis) != "undefined"){
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.ready', checkCount);
 addthis.addEventListener('addthis.menu.share', checkCount);
 }

 $(".f1r-shares-twitter").attr("href", "https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=" + addthis_share.templates.twitter);
 $(".f1r-shares-facebook").attr("href", "https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=" + addthis_share.url);
 $(".f1r-shares-linkedin").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[0].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-reddit").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[2].url);
 $(".f1r-shares-mendelay").attr("href", addthis_config.services_custom[1].url);

 function checkCount(){
 setTimeout(function(){
 $(".addthis_button_expanded").each(function(){
 var count = $(this).text();
 if (count !== "" && count != "0")
 $(this).removeClass("is-hidden");
 else
 $(this).addClass("is-hidden");
 });
 }, 1000);
 }
 close How to cite this report {{reportCitation}} Cancel Copy Citation Details 
 $(function(){
 var gaCat = "F1000Research";
 if (gaCat === "") {
 gaCat = $("body").hasClass("wellcome-brand") ? "Wellcome Open Research" : "F1000Research";
 }
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Page: Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease", label: "pageviews"});
 GAHelper.track({category: gaCat, action: "Article Type: Research Article", label: "Article Page"});
 $(".f1r-article-desk .collection-image").each(function (idx, el) {
 var whatChannel = $(el).find("a").attr("href"),
 channelName = $.trim($(el).parent().find(".collection-detail a").text()),
 gaRef = "(ID: " + whatChannel.replace("/collections/", "") + ") " + channelName;
 GAHelper.track({category: 'ChannelStats', action: "Article Page: Association of spirochetal infection with Morgellons disease", label: gaRef});
 });
 });
 
 $(function(){R.ui.buttonDropdowns('.dropdown-for-downloads');});
 $(function(){R.ui.toolbarDropdowns('.toolbar-dropdown-for-downloads');});
 
 $.get("/articles/acj/304/304")
 
 new F1000.Clipboard();
 new F1000.ThesaurusTermsDisplay("articles", "article", "304");
 
 $(document).ready(function() {
 $( "#frame1" ).on('load', function() {
 var mydiv = $(this).contents().find("div");
 var h = mydiv.height();
 console.log(h)
 });

 
 var tooltipLivingFigure = jQuery(".interactive-living-figure-label .icon-more-info"),
 titleLivingFigure = tooltipLivingFigure.attr("title");
 tooltipLivingFigure.simpletip({
 fixed: true,
 position: ["-115", "30"],
 baseClass: 'small-tooltip',
 content:titleLivingFigure + " "
 });
 tooltipLivingFigure.removeAttr("title");

 $("body").on("click", ".cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 var ref = $(this).attr("data-ref");
 $(this).closest(".living-figure-list-container").find("#" + ref).fadeIn(200);
 });
 $("body").on("click", ".close-cite-living-figure", function(e) {
 e.preventDefault();
 $(this).closest(".popup-window-wrapper").fadeOut(200);
 });

 $(document).on("mouseup", function(e) {
 var metricsContainer = $(".article-metrics-popover-wrapper");
 if (!metricsContainer.is(e.target) && metricsContainer.has(e.target).length === 0) {
 $(".article-metrics-close-button").click();
 }
 });

 var articleId = $('#articleId').val();

 if($("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics) {
 $("#main-article-count-box").attachArticleMetrics(articleId, {
 articleMetricsView: true
 });
 }
 });

 var figshareWidget = $(".new_figshare_widget");
 if (figshareWidget.length > 0) {
 window.figshare.load("f1000", function(Widget) {
 // Select a tag/tags defined in your page. In this tag we will place the widget.
 _.map(figshareWidget, function(el){
 var widget = new Widget({
 articleId: $(el).attr("figshare_articleId")
 //height:300 // this is the height of the viewer part. [Default: 550]
 });
 widget.initialize(); // initialize the widget
 widget.mount(el); // mount it in a tag that's on your page
 // this will save the widget on the global scope for later use from
 // your JS scripts. This line is optional.
 //window.widget = widget;
 });
 });
 }
 

 
 $(document).ready(function () {

 
 var reportIds = {
 "867": 330,
 "760": 353,
 "876": 319,
 };

 $(".referee-response-container,.js-referee-report").each(function(index, el) {
 var reportId = $(el).attr("data-reportid"),
 reportCount = reportIds[reportId] || 0;
 $(el).find(".comments-count-container,.js-referee-report-views").html(reportCount);
 });

 var uuidInput = $("#article_uuid"),
 oldUUId = uuidInput.val(),
 newUUId = "796c3718-b767-452f-9e96-6afdd344d711";
 uuidInput.val(newUUId);

 $("a[href*='article_uuid=']").each(function(index, el) {
 var newHref = $(el).attr("href").replace(oldUUId, newUUId);
 $(el).attr("href", newHref);
 });

 });
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 


 

 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 

 

 An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing. 

 


 
 

 

 
 

 


 

 Browse 
 Gateways 
 Collections 
 How it Works 
 Blog 
 Contact 
 For Developers 
 RSS 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Submit Your Research 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 


 
 

 

 Follow us
 
 
 

 


 
 

 

 2012-2020 F1000 Research Ltd. ISSN 2046-1402 | Legal | Partner of HINARI CrossRef ORCID FAIRSharing 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 The F1000Research website uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more 
 
 
 
 
 R.templateTests.simpleTemplate = R.template(' $text $text $text $text $text ');
 R.templateTests.runTests();
 
 var F1000platform = new F1000.Platform({
 name: "f1000research",
 displayName: "F1000Research",
 hostName: "f1000research.com",
 id: "1",
 editorialEmail: "research@f1000.com",
 infoEmail: "info@f1000.com",
 usePmcStats: true
 });

 $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-authors, .dropdown-for-about, .dropdown-for-myresearch');});
 // $(function(){R.ui.dropdowns('.dropdown-for-referees');});

 $(document).ready(function () {
 if ($(".cookie-warning").is(":visible")) {
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "35px");
 $(".devices").addClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 }
 $(".cookie-warning .close-button").click(function (e) {
 $(".devices").removeClass("devices-and-cookie-warning");
 $(".sticky").css("margin-bottom", "0");
 });

 $("#tweeter-feed .tweet-message").each(function (i, message) {
 var self = $(message);
 self.html(linkify(self.html()));
 });

 $(".partner").on("mouseenter mouseleave", function() {
 $(this).find(".gray-scale, .colour").toggleClass("is-hidden");
 });
 });
 
 

 
 
	 Sign in -->
	 Sign In 
	 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		 
 

 
 			 
			 
			 
 
 				 
 
 Remember me 
			 
			 Forgotten your password? 
			 
				 Sign In 
				 Cancel 
				 
			 
			 Email or password not correct. Please try again 
			 Please wait... 
		 
		 
			
 
	$(function(){
		// Note: All the setup needs to run against a name attribute and *not* the id due the clonish
		// nature of facebox...
		$("a[id=googleSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("GOOGLE");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=facebookSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("FACEBOOK");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
 $("a[id=orcidSignInButton]").click(function(event){
 event.preventDefault();
 $("input[id=oAuthSystem]").val("ORCID");
 $("form[id=oAuthForm]").submit();
 });
	});
 

 
	If you've forgotten your password, please enter your email address below and we'll send you instructions on how to reset your password.
 The email address should be the one you originally registered with F1000. 
 
 
 
	Email address not valid, please try again
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Google, so we cannot reset your password. 
	 To sign in, please click here . 
 If you still need help with your Google account password, please click here . 
 
 
 You registered with F1000 via Facebook, so we cannot reset your password. 
 To sign in, please click here . 
	 If you still need help with your Facebook account password, please click here . 
 
 
 
	Code not correct, please try again
 
 
 
	 Reset password 
	 Cancel 
	 
 
 
	 Email us for further assistance.
 
 
 
 
 
			 Server error, please try again. 
			 
 We have sent an email to , please follow the instructions to reset your password. 
 If you don't receive this email, please check your spam filters and/or contact . 
 
			 Please wait... 
		 

		 
			 
				 Register 
				 
			 
		 

	 
 

 
$(document).ready(function () {

 signIn.createSignInAsRow($("#sign-in-form-gfb-popup"));

 $(".target-field").each(function () {
 var uris = $(this).val().split("/");
 if (uris.pop() === "login") {
 	$(this).val(uris.toString().replace(",","/"));
 }
 });
});
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 I Understand 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 F1000.ExtenalMaintenanceItems = [
 {
 start: '2018-12-10T14:21:00Z',
 end: '2018-12-13T16:00:00Z',
 msg: 'This site will be down for a short time on XX December. It is advisable not to start any submissions on that day or you may lose your work unless you save regularly.',
 cookieName: 'outage23122018',
 editor: false,
 }
 ];
 

 
 

 

 
 (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
 (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
 m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
 })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

 ga('create', 'UA-5646075-11', 'auto');
 ga('require', 'displayfeatures');
 ga('send', 'pageview');
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 