In this study, Li and colleagues performed quantitative analyses of heart rate variability in horses based on previously published data in reference 3, and reached a conclusion that is supported by quantitative results. Here is a list of comments that I believe this MS could benefit from: In Methods – Frequency-domain analysis, how were the cut-off frequencies for these fast, low, and very low frequency determined? Also,‘repolarization spectrum’ appears confusing. It would be helpful if explained in more detail. Please also add more details regarding how FFT was performed, i.e., what software/code and relevant parameters, in order to reproduce these analyses. It is not clear exactly what ‘at rest’ and ‘exercise’ mean in the context of this study, e.g., is ‘at rest’ suggesting HR data taken minutes/hours before exercise? This is more relevant for ‘exercise’ as it is not clear what is the form and duration of exercise, and perhaps these data are taken after exercise? If so, it would be very helpful to clearly describe at what time point these data were taken, since Figures 1 and 2 show gradually slowed HR in the ‘exercise’ column. Other HR-contributing factors like the circadian rhythm may also ideally need to be ruled out if ‘rest’ and ‘exercise’ data are taken during different part of the day. It is also worthwhile to describe the sexes of the horses. Is there any sex-based difference? Figures 1 and 2 are essentially showing the same data and therefore may benefit from merging into a single figure. The authors described the duration of single HR recording (10 to 18 min), were the analyses performed on the whole length of the recordings or segments of them? Please elaborate and perhaps provide a representative plot of whole length recording of HR/RR data? Also, in Figure 2 C-D, there’s no tick/tick labels for the y axis. Figure 5A-B, please add notations for what the color areas stand for. For entropy and detrended fluctuation analyses, please add detailed descriptions of implementation methods. Figure 8A-B appear that the plots do not cover complete dataset. Please modify the axis ranges to improve. 