 The authors describe setsApp for Cytoscape, an app that provides a user and developer friendly way to define sets of nodes and edges and perform union, intersect and difference operations on these sets. The features of this app are rather basic (set definition and simple set operations), but nevertheless provide a very useful extension to core Cytoscape functionality. By designing the app so that it can be used through either the GUI or the commands interface makes it a very powerful utility component that can be used in different use cases, workflows, or as building block in other apps. The manuscript is well written and provides a clear and detailed description of the app data model, usage instructions and use case. I tested the app using Cytoscape 3.1.1 and everything worked as described. Minor comments on the manuscript: The paragraph following Table 1 is very technical. A code example to illustrate the use of Tunables would be useful. Also consider placing this paragraph after Listing 1, so the reader is first being shown how to call the setsApp commands, before diving into technical details. Listing 1: The code example is incomplete, please define the variable, how would I get an instance as developer? Minor comments and suggestions on the App: It doesnt seem possible to compare sets across different networks, the App gives an error when I tried. What is the reasoning behind this? If the networks contain overlapping nodes, wouldnt it be valid to perform the operations across the different networks? In case sets have been defined for multiple networks, it is hard to see in the Sets panel to which network each set belongs. The only way I could find was to click the set and choose so the nodes get selected in the corresponding network. It would be useful to group the sets by network or indicate the parent network otherwise (i.e. different colors of the red dots). Small GUI tweak proposal: in the dialog where the user needs to specify the set name, it would be handy if the key would map to the button, so you dont have to switch to the mouse. It would be more intuitive and speed up the creation of several sets. 