I was asked to review this article, with full access to previous reviewers report, Jonathan M Austyn, from the John Radcliffe Hospital. I agree that the article contains some very interesting ideas and concepts, which will be very stimulatory to a wide readership, particularly those studying cancer and practicing cancer (oncologists) who are slowly becoming aware that the immune system is important in the control of cancer and hence the development and evolution. The review touches on some very broad and very interesting concepts, particularly with regards to evolution over time and the evolutionary difference between innate and adaptive immune systems and he has some of the concepts that are relevant to the hypothesis but perhaps not been elucidated that clearly, especially with regards to the concept of atavism and this has been pointed out by Jonathan Austyn with regards subtle differences in somatic recombination and hypermutation and mutation. I also agree with rather more reaching, throwaway statements, such as cancer occurs in all humans and animals, thus remaining a mystery when several reasons have already been explored, such as random mutations and the concept of escaping tumour surveillance.cancer Whereas references made to many infectious agents and the fact that they have ended up making up the vast majority of the intron genome, which has been shown to be due to the incorporation of many virus and bacterial sequences. The hypothesis depends very much on the shaping of these agents and the immune system but does not deal adequately with how the immune is shaped by exposure to infectious agents during infant and childhood development. Much of the references of this article is in large chunks, whereas the authors papers are listed in large batches, for example; the work by North and colleagues are all listed together and referenced together. I feel that in addressing this, that they have not acknowledged the work of others who have spent a long time working out the affects of basic infectious diseases on the immune system and how this translates to chronic infectious diseases and one author in particular stands out for his work on this and that is Graham Rook, he has published much on this about the exposure of pathogens and the dirt theory, how it impacts on chronic diseases in later life in the western world and, indeed, a review by him and this reviewer ( Rook and Dalgleish, 2011 ) published in Immunological reviews in 2011 goes into great detail with regards to its impact on cancer. Similarly, the impact of both infectious and non-infectious chronic activation/inflammation, which is relevant to many of the issues raised in this article, have not been addressed sufficiently, especially as it is so relevant to many of the speculations discussed. Again, there are a large number of authors and contributors who have gone from broad brush theories of the association of chronic inflammation and cancer, to those who have gone into great detail pointing out how it impacts on the molecular level of mutations in suppressor genes, such as P53, all the way through to immunological hypoxic pathways, etc., and I do not recognise this from the reference list which, as mentioned, is very block buster in its approach with an authors several contributions all being listed together throughout. I also feel that, with regards to the homeostatic component focusing purely in Interleukin-2, that although it is true that it is one of several cytokines which contribute to activation and tolerance that a little bit more background should be given. In conclusion, I think this is a very valuable piece of work of great interest to the rapidly proliferating and emerging population of cancer specialists who are slowly becoming aware that the immune system is extremely important in the management of this disease, a concept that has been ignored for the last few decades and foreign to most oncologist practising today. However, to make it more impactful and a must read article it does require considerable focusing on the aspects raised by the referees and tighter structure, as it does seem to read rather like a speculative lecture in its current format. With regards to referencing, there is a referral to Klazmann et al. and there is no Klazmann et al. in the references and this is a further example that the references need to be very carefully looked into, although a paper where he is the senior author is listed, I do not think that it is appropriate therefore to refer to it in the text as Klazmann et al .