 General: The topic of how flavour perception is affected during commercial flights is a good one. It is currently underexplored and more research would be welcome to help fill out the small set findings in the literature. However, this rather badly designed and poorly conducted study is without proper controls and its findings do not support the declared aim of overturning previous findings in the field. It is not helped by giving different target conclusions at different points in the paper, ranging from the headline grabbing but overclaiming title: ‘Flavor perception of wine is unchanged during commercial flight’ to the more circumspect claim that there is no ‘ difference in either subjective perception of flavor intensity or overall liking of wine between high- and low-altitude tests’ to the even narrower claim that ‘on commercial flights, any possible perceptual change that exists while flying may not affect the subjective taste experience of lay people’. However, the findings from the data do not establish any of these conclusions, and as a result not much store can be set by the authors’ assertion that: ‘we were unable to verify the findings of previous simulation studies’. This is not surprising. A more plausible interpretation is that that was not a well enough conducted study either to verify or refute the previous simulation studies, nor to establish that there was no ‘difference in either subjective perception of flavor intensity or overall liking of wine between high- and low-altitude tests’. The current article cannot be recommended for publication. Crucial limitations of the current study are declared by the authors themselves in the discussion section, suggesting the authors may have already faced or anticipate facing these criticisms. The list of limitations almost amounts to a self-review of the problems with the current paper, helping to reinforce the verdict offered here. The authors reveal both a lack of knowledge of the existing literature and at times a failure to understand the literature they do cite. We are told early on that the effects of pressure and altitude on flavour perception has only been conducted in simulated environments and ‘never in a field study conducted in an authentic environment, and never using wine as the object of study’. Later, the authors are more cautious, ‘to the best of our knowledge, the impact of airplane cabin conditions on wine consumption experience has not yet been tested in a field study.’ But in fact it has. Together with British Airways, wine buyer Andy Sparrow carried out a controlled study tasting the same wines in the lounge before the flight, then in flight after two hours, and again after 5 hours. Most of the Bordeaux wines were perceived as less intense and more tannic although a high-altitude produced Catena Angelica Zapata Malbec tasted more intense: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0PzeuVCBzQc . In addition, there is The Wine in the Sky Questionnaire (2018 Assouline) where a range of expert and non-expert tasters report on their experiences of wines in-flight. The background to the experiment relies on an understanding of multisensory flavour perception and the possible factors affecting it. The authors’ understanding can be questioned given their diagram in Figure 1. Why are the authors separating flavour and odour characteristics? Are participants required to attend to each separately? On the far left-hand side should be volatile and non-volatile molecules. Flavour perception is a result of multisensory integration, so does not precede it. Cross-modal effects of one sense on another can happen at the level of sensory inputs that feed into the process of integration. How is the wine consumption experience judged? Is it the same thing as ‘flavour intensity’ or is it more about the intensity of the experience rather than intensity of sensations like bitterness, sweetness, etc. or is is just the hedonic scoring of the wine? It is unclear. Study Design: In taking advantage of a commercial flight that colleagues of the authors were travelling on, they were limited to the choice of wine samples sold on the plane. Therefore, there was no opportunity to have the participants taste the same wines on the ground before flying. A limitation the authors acknowledge. The authors tell us that ‘Wine has a complex composition of flavors and wine tasting requires a special attention to nuance.’ But it is reasonable to wonder whether the small format bottles available on this flight really fell into this category. There may have been few nuances to attend to and there were no other wines by other producers to allow a comparison in the results. Another limitation of the study acknowledged by the authors. A claimed strength of the study is its ‘high ecological validity’ and that it is a more authentic study than those carried out in simulated conditions (e.g. pressurised cabin on the ground). Here we have ‘a setting that approximates normal circumstances for wine consumption during flight’. And yet; ‘The wine samples were distributed to the study participants in two transparent CorningTM Falcon 50 mL Conical Centrifuge Tubes (outside diameter: 30 mm; length: 115 mm). Each tube contained only 25 mL of wine’(4). Far from being authentic, naturalistic conditions, this requires participants to sniff and sip from a narrow test tube. The authors tell us: ‘This conforms to general wine tasting standards and is generally considered sufficient for a simple taste assessment’. On the contrary, standardized ISO wine tasting glasses have a much wider aperture than a centrifuge tube, and crucially, the bowl is wider than rim to encourage odour concentration in the headspace. These are far from suitable containers for wine testing purposes. This is yet another possible limitation of the study acknowledged by the authors: ‘these narrow plastic tubes could be an inhibiting factor in the consumption experience, e.g. inhibiting the odor sensation and diminishing the overall aesthetic experience and its emotional impact on the consumer ‘ (60. They most certainly would have been.) Exclusion conditions for participants included those who do not or should not imbibe alcohol, those who ‘had a history of dysosmia or dysgeusia (i.e. olfactory or gustatory dysfunction.’ But normally, for such a test it would include those with cold, hay fever, or sinus problems. Also, were participants asked not to eat or drink anything for more than an hour before the tests, as is standard practice for taste tests. We are not told. They were tested 1hr 45 minutes into the flight.Did they consume any more alcohol or food during the remainder of the flight? Again, we are not told. The authors acknowledge the problem: ‘It is also recommended that future studies should employ measures to control for confounders related to the individual, such as current satiety, appetite, and thirst. A limitation of the present study is the lack of experimental control.’ (6). Some of these could have been controlled for in this study. To assess the samples, we are told the authors relied on ‘the concept of flavour intensity’. No attempt is made to establish that participants understand what they are being asked to judge or show reliability in making ‘flavour intensity judgements’. This is also conflated with ‘aromatic intensity’ in places. Is this judged by sniffing or tasting? No attempt is made to assess the participants’ acuity in smelling or tasting. Were they not very discriminating? Could that be the reason ‘the subjective wine tasting experience of [these] non-professionals in real life testing may not be affected’ Were there individual differences? The questionnaires draws on terms for evaluation said to be industry standard, though they are taken from Parr et.al. 2016 who is using these terms to test experts. Did the participants, who are largely inexperienced in wine tasting tests know what ‘oak integration’ means and are they reliably able to score it? How do participants judge the added dimension of ‘imbibing strength’? Is it from the trigeminal burning sensation of the alcohol, the full-bodied weight of the wine? Are all participants using the same criteria? For those without any experience of wine tasting, it can be hard to make discriminating judgements over a distanced time period – the re-testing is one hour after disembarking from the flight. Thus, the findings could be interpreted as suggesting a lack of ability to discriminate and compare across time rather than making reliably good judgements about the performance of the same wines in two different conditions. Yet a further possible limitation the authors acknowledge. The re-testing of the test tubes of the same wine was carried out on the transit bus from the airport to the hotel. Were the samples in the same condition? Freshly poured into the centrifuge tubes or preserved from the first filling? The comparison of response is between tasting test tubes of wine in flight at altitude and then shortly after a 3.5 hour flight on a transit bus (after further food? alcohol?) Many further questions arise from this design. Conducting the experiment: The dependent variable in the hypothesis of the study is the altitude/ air pressure at which the wines were tested and re-tested. Although we are told the altitude of the aircraft was c.37,000 ft, we are not told more importantly what the air pressure was in the cabin. The authors explain that they were not able to take equipment on board to measure the cabin pressure. ‘Therefore, we can only provide a general estimate of the cabin pressure’ However, air crew are usually happy to ask the captain to let a passenger know the cabin pressure. The authors’ estimates look rather high. Mostly at this altitude the cabin pressure corresponds to an altitude of between 5,500-6.500 ft. Similarly, “There are standard phone apps for measuring decibel levels in the environment. So special measuring equipment needed to be brought on board. This was a severe limitation since it was not possible to compare the noise levels on the in-flight and on the transit bus where the re-testing of the wines took place. (The authors admit – yet again – this was a possible limitation of this study. However, they suggest: ‘This reveals a major failure to understand the cross-modal effect at issue and how it provides a confound for this study: a significant failing in the article. If there was an interference effect of noise on the perceived intensity of wine’s aroma or flavour in flight because noise changed the perception of the wine’s flavour, and a similar effect of noise on flavour perception on the transit bus this may explain why the wine was perceived within the same ranges of intensity on the questionnaire in both conditions. This interpretation of the findings, given previous studies confirming the cross-modal effect of hearing white noise on perception of tastes, is more likely than the interpretation that there was no ‘ difference in either subjective perception of flavor intensity or overall liking of wine between high- and low-altitude tests’. The most the authors can claim is they have not been able to replicate the earlier simulation tests. But given the considerable limitations of the study fully acknowledged by the authors their findings do not, as the authors claim, support their conclusion that ‘Flavor perception of wine is unchanged during commercial flight’. Without using a visual analogue scale instead of a 9 point scale subtle shifts can be missed., Besides, the p-values alone are not enough to reject the hypothesis. Baysian statistics would need to be run. A Baysian analysis would tell the authors whether they can reject the hypothesis on the basis of their data or whether it is just insufficiently powered to draw any conclusions of this sort. Why is it likely to be the former rather than the latter? We are not told. The crucial weakness of the study – once again acknowledged by the authors – was the inability to test the same wines on the ground first and then in the air and the reasons they were not able to do so were purely logistical. The wines chosen for the study, a Turkish red wine blend (Majestik Syrah Kalecik Karasi, 2017, alc. 13.5%), and white wine blend (Majestik Sauvignon Blanc Sultaniye, 2017 alc. 12.5%) ‘were chosen as they were the only wines available for purchase on the flight, and because consumption of alcoholic beverages not purchased on the flight was not permitted.’ No opportunity to test before was possible and only one red and one white were used and this was opportunistic. For such a large conclusion as the authors propose in the title of the article, one would need much more evidence and to consider other, and often more plausible interpretations of the findings. 