Overview Duo et al compare multiple single-cell RNA-seq clustering approaches on real and simulated single-cell RNA-seq datasets. Major comments - Quite a number of single-cell RNA-seq datasets are available for benchmarking but only a few were explored here. While an exhaustive interrogation of all single-cell RNA-seq datasets available is beyond the scope of this paper, it would be worthwhile for the readers if the authors could comment briefly on the appropriateness of the datasets used here in terms of their cell-type diversity or other factors that may impact benchmarking. As the authors note, a method's performance is inherently tied to the degree to which the tested subpopulations are truly (or artificially) transcriptionally distinct. In particular, I am concerned about the appropriateness of the Trapnell dataset, as it was originally intended for pseutotime/trajectory inference and may not even contain discrete transcriptional subpopulations. The poor performance as noted in Figure 1 for this dataset may simply arise from different methods cutting along this continuous trajectory in different ways. Similarly, for the Zheng 10x datasets, since each cell-type was sorted and sequenced separately, there is inevitably some degree of confounding of cell-type specific effects with batch effects that could make clustering much easier. - As datasets get bigger, the scalability of each method will be an important consideration. The authors provide a preliminary look into this via the different run time of each method in Figure 2, but how this run time depends on the number of cells is unclear. Readers will be interested in whether some methods scale better than others. It is worth having an additional figure of run time as a function of number of cells (via downsampling cells and then extrapolating to larger datasets) to fully capture the scalability of each method. - With regard to the stability between cluster runs, some methods may internally set various random seeds to ensure reproducibility. Please double check that the stability observed in Figure 3 is not simply the result of which methods uses random seeds. If a method does use an (or likely multiple) internal random seed, the seed must be changed to accurately assess stability. Minor comments - There are quite a number of single-cell RNA-seq clustering approaches and the list keeps growing (https://github.com/seandavi/awesome-single-cell). Only a fraction is represented in this comparison. While an exhaustive comparison of all methods is beyond the scope of this paper, the authors should comment briefly on how these particular 12 clustering algorithms were chosen. - While nearly all methods assessed use dimensionality reduction as a first step, it is unclear why some were allowed to reduce to 30 dimensions while others 50. It seems that particularly as datasets get larger with presumably more cell-types captured in each datasets, we will likely want to increase the number of PCs to fully capture the variation present in the data. While the authors have left the investigation into the effects of the number of PCs to future research, they should briefly note the reason for the choice of PCs used for each method. 