This manuscript by Trotman-Lucas is a brief report outlining a technical refinement of the intraluminal filament middle cerebral artery occlusion model that leads to improved reperfusion. The authors have previously shown that CCA repair can increase acute CBF during reperfusion and consequently have reduced infarct volume size and variability. This manuscript provides a nice addition with Laser Speckle Contrast Imaging showing reperfusion changes lasting 48 hours between the traditional Koizumi method and the CCA repair method. This simple repair method could improve our ability to conduct stroke modelling. I have some comments below. Specific comments: The Laser Speckle Contrast Imaging method has great spatial and temporal resolution but does not provide any depth assessment of CBF changes in the brain. It only provides a measurement of CBF on the surface of the brain. Therefore, all that can be stated from this study is that pial CBF can be improved post-MCA during CCA repair compared to the CCA ligated method, as we do not know from this imaging technique whether the underlying brain is fully reperfused. Some discussion around this would be useful. The Laser Speckle Contrast Imaging was conducted at baseline (prior to MCAO), 24h post-MCAO and 48h post-MCAO. However, there was no apparent assessment during MCAO to show that a stroke had actually occurred. How can you confirm that these animals actually had a stroke with no CBF assessment during MCAO? The sustained (48h) changes shown in Figure 1 are interesting. It would have been excellent to have shown how these CBF values are associated with changes in neurological deficit (could be done by a neuroscore) or infarct volume at 48 hours. Were the brains assessed for this? The CCA ligated results show sustained hypoperfusion on the surface of the brain for 48 hours. Some extended discussion on how this could impact the development of the lesion and chronic injury would be useful, particularly since chronic occlusion of the CCA is used in vascular dementia studies with chronic neurodegeneration and impaired cognition present. There are many studies showing that CBF in the contralateral hemisphere can be altered during MCAO and during reperfusion (e.g. Lavy et al 1975 Stroke 6:160-3 1 ; Taheri et al 2019 Transl Neurosci Res Rev 2:27-37 2 ; Premilovac et al 2020 JCBFM 271678X20905493 3 and others). Given that the quantification of the ipsilateral CBF is a % of the contralateral, any changes in CBF in the contralateral hemisphere in response to MCAO or reperfusion could alter the reference point for this analysis. Some discussion should be added about this as a limitation. The second last sentence of the discussion “Validating the use of CCA repair…” is an incomplete sentence and will need rewritten. 