 Summary and Overall Impressions This article seeks to explore the application (and challenges) of using atomistic simulations to compute the solubility of drug-like small molecules. The ability to predict the solubility of emerging drug candidates is indeed an important challenge for the pharmaceutical industry, as many drugs which come out of discovery are BCS class II or IV with low aqueous solubility. The method proposed in this work could in principle allow medicinal chemists and pharmaceutical scientists to evaluate drug solubility early in the development pipeline and accelerate product release. This method is sufficiently novel and well executed to deserve publication in this scientific journal. The authors have also done a fantastic job including the details and input files necessary for one well-versed in the art to reproduce their results. Minor revisions are suggested below to further improve the clarity and quality of the article. Suggested Revisions In the original papers by Aragones, Noya, and Vega, the molecules were constrained to be completely rigid. In this work, the investigators appear use this method for both constrained and fully flexible molecular systems. The authors should consider highlighting this expanded capability, and perhaps discuss the tradeoffs in accuracy and simulation speed between flexible vs rigid molecular treatment for absolute solubility prediction. The authors use both the term ‘restraints’ and ‘constraints’ to describe the harmonic potential being applied and removed from atoms in the system. It may be more clear to consistently refer to these alchemical harmonic potentials as ‘restraints’ and reserve the term ‘constraint’ for the subroutine used to keep molecules fully rigid. An important feature in the Einstein molecule method utilized herein is the use of a frozen reference atom rather than the traditional full-system center-of-mass removal. In principle, the free energy to add restraints to a system with a frozen atom will be independent of the choice of reference. In practice, some choices of reference atom may lead to faster simulation convergence than others due to differences in the fluctuation magnitude of the atoms around their natural lattice positions. It would be useful to discuss best practices in how one chose the frozen reference atom, as well as to discuss the effect of different reference choices on the convergence of the various alchemical steps in this workflow. The authors mention using a previously developed Monte Carlo code to compute the absolute free energy of the reference Einstein Molecule state. It would be useful to comment on the uncertainty inherent in this component of the overall free energy calculation. For example, how much variance would ten independent calls to the Monte Carlo program have for these compounds? On page 7 of the paper, the authors briefly mention that “GROMACS only reads each lambda value up to the 4 th decimal place”. In my own alchemical simulations with GROMACS, I have routinely used lambda values out to 8 decimal places. If this is a version-specific limitation, the authors should state this explicitly. Otherwise, this comment should be removed. The investigators chose to use linear spacing for the lambda values in all alchemical processes including the addition of harmonic restraints to the physical system. They also note that adding harmonic restraints represented the most time-intensive part of the overall workflow and required splitting into 6 different steps of increasing restraint strength. Furthermore, they find that the overlap between neighboring lambda states during the restraint addition is quite low (Figure 2-4) and produces large uncertainties in their final free energy estimates. In my own investigations of adding harmonic restraints to solids from 2016 (cited in this work) I observed that either cubically- or quartically- spaced lambda values significantly improve the overlap along the thermodynamic path relative to linear spacing and reduce the total amount of simulation cost. This should be included as a potential remedy for the high simulation cost lamented in the discussion section of the paper. The investigators chose to use a large value of 1,000,000 kJ/nm/mol for their final restraint state to add or remove inter-particle interactions. It is necessary to have strong restraints in order to remove stiff degrees of freedom such as bonds and angles. However, it is possible that the interaction removal could be achieved with a weaker value of the restraint constant, and this would in turn reduce the number of simulations to add or remove harmonic restraints. This should also be discussed in the context of ways to reduce the amount of simulation expense observed for these calculations. Finally, the authors should consider including the additional papers of Sellers et al. 2016 1 and Schilling and Schmid 2009 2 who also explore the use of atomistic simulation to compute absolute solid free energies. These articles also discuss how to apply restraints in a manner that preserves the indistinguishability of certain particles. It would be worth discussing ways to account for particle indistinguishablility in the method presented in this paper. 