Being able to combine evidence from multiple sources to prioritize genes associated with a particular scientific question is very desirable. GenRank is a Bioconductor package that aims to integrate gene-level data generated from multiple layers of evidence (e.g. multiple study types, tissues, analysis tools) to prioritize candidate genes ( it is not clear for what ). Three methods are implemented via easy-to-use functions. The Convergent Evidence (CE) method counts the number of times a gene is present in each layer of evidence. Counts can be weighted relative to the total number of genes per layer of evidence and further weighted by the type of evidence. The Rank Product (RP) method applies the rank product strategy originally developed for the analysis of microarray data to the p-values or effect sizes across layer of evidence for a set of genes. The third method is a wrapper of the combine.test function from the survcomp package, which combines p-values estimated from the same null hypothesis in different studies. The manuscript and package, in their current form, are of limited value. Each of the functions ‘wrap’ existing methods and is a task easily achieved by any proficient bioinformatician i.e. a bioinformatician would simply use the existing packages. Thus, the likely users of the package are biologists with limited experience or R/programming who want simple to use tools. Whilst the package offers simple to use functions there is limited discussion on how to achieve such analysis nor the ‘weight’ of each parameter, how to approach such analysis, how to merge the data (so no missing data), etc. For example, no advice is offered for the parameters of ’z.transform’ or ‘logit’ for combing p-values. Whilst this information may be available in the original survcomp package this defeats the idea of having an easy ‘out-of-the-box’ package which GenRank aims to be. Without such information it is not easy to see the contribution of this work to the field. In light of the above, and the technical aspects picked up below, we believe this manuscript and package requires a substantial amount of work before it can be indexed and make a contribution to the scientific community. Technical aspects: The tool was installed, manual and vignette read, and all examples successfully run. The tool was also tested with in-house data and there were no problems. Technical issues are: GenRank package indicates a dependency on R (= 3.2.3), however, I could only install GenRank on R 3.3.3. It looks like GenRank depends on survcomp , which depends on SuppDists , which is only available for R 3.3.3. Details: In R 3.2.3, I tried to install GenRank as follows: sudo R CMD INSTALL GenRank_1.2.0.tar.gz I got an error indicating that I needed dependency survcomp . I tried to install survcomp but I got an error indicating that I needed several dependencies. I was able to install all dependencies successfully (except for SuppDists ) by running: install.packages("package_name", repos="http://cran.cnr.berkeley.edu", dependencies=TRUE) For SuppDists I then tried sudo R CMD INSTALL SuppDists_1.1-9.4.tar.gz which produced the error ERROR: this R is version 3.2.3, package 'SuppDists' requires R = 3.3.0 In addition, the SuppDists package’s maintenance status is orphaned, i.e. the maintainer is unresponsive (dated 2013-03-22). In the abstract the RP method is described as: “the rank product (RP) method performs a meta-analysis of microarray-based gene expression data” however, in the context of the manuscript, the method is not restricted to microarray data. The reference manual has a more suitable description under the ComputeRP function: “the rank product (RP) method returns ranks of the genes based on rank product method”. The writing style of the Vignette could be improved, in particular the RP tutorial section. The PC argument of the ComputeCE function can have three different values, which correspond to each of the three different ways of computing the CE score. It would very useful if the meaning of these options were included in the R help documentation. The method argument of the ComputeP function can have three different values, which correspond to each of the three different ways of computing the combined p-values. It would be very useful if a short description of each method was included in the R help documentation. Please see the description provided in combine.test function. There are a few assumptions and requisites described in the vignette that could be included in the R help documentation, for example: In the RP method, the gene-list or the number of genes should be the same across all evidence layers. In the Combining p-values method, the p-values must be one-sided. 