This is a very interesting paper focusing on identifying parent of origin interaction effects in CL/P using a genome-wide approach. The environmental factors selected are biologically plausible to be involved in cleft and the sample, although modest in size, involved full trios and individuals of non-European ancestry. The authors identify suggestive evidence of interaction for 3 SNPs in ANK3 with smoking and 10 SNPs for ARHGEF10 with alcohol consumption. This study provides proof of principle for their approach and the authors highlight the need for replication in independent samples. The authors follow the results with bioinformatics analysis and the paper is well written and detailed. My main concern with the statistical analysis is with the use of directly genotyped SNPs in a genome-wide scan. Can the authors explain why there is no imputation of the directly genotyped SNPs? Imputation would have provided a much larger number of SNPs to work with. Also, what is the rational for not using the established genome-wide significance level (5*10-8)? If anything, the authors should have been more stringent than that since they effectively performed 3 genome-wide analyses (one for each environmental factor). The abstract should be made for concise: The 59 individuals of other ancestries were not used for any analyses, so they should not be mentioned in the abstract. The methods section of the abstract does not contain any description of how the performed the analysis and relies heavily on their previous study. I am not sure if the following statement should be called intriguing: 'Despite this success, the genetic variants identified so far collectively explain only a minor fraction of the total vari- ance attributable to additive genetic effects, which is intriguing considering the more than 70% heritability of CL/P among Europeans17–20'. This is not unusual, and it is the case for many other complex disorder and traits, so I would suggest rephrasing. The table titles should include more information to make the paper easier to follow. For example, Table 3 should include that it is a PoOxE analysis. Discussion: The authors need to highlight that none of their findings reached genome-wide significance level and given that they have performed more tests that in a standard genome-wide study, the evidence for association is weak. So, their findings require replication and/or meta-analysis in a larger sample. I am not sure I agree with their statement: ‘Without formal validation in a comparable and independent replication cohort, it would be premature to dismiss the veracity of the remaining associations merely on the basis of their having too high q-values.’ All of their findings need to be replicated and should be treated with caution until then. Another point that I need to make is that I would have expected the discussion to be more about result interpretation and even trying to suggest possible mechanisms. At the moment the discussion is focused on detailed bioinformatics analysis which although interesting, would be more suited to the results section. 