The author investigates the effect of Cassia fistula on three outcomes based on two included studies. It seems a valuable research that could potentially direct the pharmaceutical companies toward a new agent to treat the constipation. Title The title should be “Cassia fistula for treatment of children and adolescents with constipation: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials”. Authorship The systematic review requires a process that involves at least two people for screening and data extraction. I suggest the author to find another systematic reviewer to be involved in this work. Abstract The abstract is very brief and sentences are incomplete. Abstract should be re-written following the example from similar systematic reviews and following PRISMA for Abstract . Minor edits “act an effective as a laxative” should be “act as effective as laxatives”. “search data” should be “search date”. Methods The standard search filter for finding RCTs as reported in Cochrane Handbook should be used. It is advised in Cochrane Handbook searching Embase, MEDLINE/PubMed, and CENTRAL for systematic reviews of RCTs and this review reports searching only MEDLINE/PubMed. Excluding closed access papers without trying to order them from library or contacting the authors introduces full-text or open access bias. The structure of the method should change and start with 1: Eligibility Criteria 2: Databases and search strategy 3: Screening process 4: Data extraction process 5: Assessment of risk of bias process 6: Data analysis plan. Currently, the first section of the methods reports info on search and eligibility criteria while there are specific subheadings for these sections. The rationale behind excluding studies older than 10 years from search date is not clear. The reported number of search results 2207 is not reasonable. A proper search should not find more than 100-200 results for this topic. The search date has not been reported. Following a published Cochrane review of RCTs in terms of structure and all the items in PRISMA Checklist for full systematic reviews is recommended. Constipation is missing from search strategy and MeSH terms in the table. The numbers in PRISMA flow diagram does not match the numbers reported in the text and it does not seem to be correct. Following one of the existing published systematic reviews of RCTs from Systematic Reviews journal or Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews is recommended. The quality of included studies is being assessed using Cochrane Risk of Bias tool. The role of MQ and using Atlas.ti is not clear in this review. These two are not usually used for SR of RCTs. Studying the meta-analysis section in the Cochrane Handbook which is freely available online could help revising the statistical analysis. Table 2 should report PICOS not SPIO. The time point for the outcome is not clear. The outcome measure has not been described properly. The complications and adverse effects have not been reported in the review. Results The sample size reported in the Data Extraction table does not match the numbers in meta-analysis. For example the total for experimental and control group in Review Manager file is 109 for Esmaeilidooki 2016 and 71 for Mozaffarpur 2012 while in the table is 51 and 81 respectively. The analysis for before treatment is not required. All before treatments can be deleted. Funnel plots only work with about 10-20 studies. All funnel plots can be deleted. Risk of bias based on Cochrane tool is not clear. It should be low risk, unclear risk and high risk. The current description of Yes/No does not provide enough information. In meta-analysis, “one randomized always analysed” while the numbers in Table 4 are not the numbers in meta-analysis in Review Manager. The control groups in two studies are different so I am not sure if combining the data from two studies in a meta-analysis is a right when there is such heterogeneity in PICOS components. SD is greater than mean is some outcomes which is an indicator of skewed data or error in reporting. Contacting the trials authors might make some of the points clear. Discussion and Conclusion Current data and status of the review may not be appropriate for discussion or making a conclusion. The current evidence is limited and more rigorous studies will be required to make any conclusion or recommendations. I understand the author’s passion for conducting a systematic review and so I request the author to work with an expert supervisor in the field before revising the work. 