This article describes an open, low-cost, super-resolution imaging system, using nanodiamond probes and the SRRF algorithm to localise individual emitters. It uses the OpenFlexure Microscope as the critical optomechanical mount, responsible for holding the microscope objective and the sample - consequently, most of the mounting and micropositioning hardware in the system can be 3D printed from open, documented designs; the major expenses are the camera, microscope objective, and laser - totalling around $1200. I have led the OpenFlexure Microscope project for some years now, and am very excited to see it used for super-resolution imaging. It is particularly pleasing that this imaging is also enabled by open-source software in the form of ImageJ, nanoJ-Core, and nanoJ-SRRF. The authors have done a great job of producing a clear, concise manuscript that describes the system and their characterisation data, that proves the principle of accessible, DIY super-resolution microscopy. I am very happy to endorse the manuscript as scientifically sound. I should be clear about what I don't know; I can't claim to be an expert on super-resolution techniques, and so I'm not able to state authoritatively whether I would trust the FRC figures. The authors are commendably clear about the fact that FRC can be confused by excessively high signal-to-noise ratios. While they do state the FRC figures, they also provide the more direct FWHM measure of the point spread function. FWHM gives only slightly worse resolution figures than FRC; the system is still clearly beating the diffraction limit by some margin. Overall, I am delighted to see this manuscript, which really advances what is possible using an inexpensive, home-built microscope. I very much hope that others are able to build on this development, and use some of the techniques shown to make novel microscopy instruments accessible, as well as reproducible. I have detailed below a few minor improvements to the manuscript that might help someone reproducing the system. I don't believe any of these affect scientific soundness, but they would nonetheless be helpful. First paragraph of "hardware design": "insamples" is missing a space in the PDF version. There's also a "fromthe" later on, though both are OK in the web view. Figure 1: it would be nice to add the laser diode and emission filter to the middle panel. I understand the laser enters the sample from the top, and it is stated in the text that the emission filter is mounted to the camera's C-mount hardware - but it would be clearer if they appeared in the diagram. Also, I don't think it's stated anywhere how the laser diode is mounted - is that the half-inch post I see in the background of the photo? While it's hardly a scientifically critical detail, it's helpful for anyone reproducing the system. Sample Preparation, final paragraph: were the 90nm nanodiamonds functionalised in any way to label specific features of the MDMs? I don't think that's specified if so. If not, do you know where they tend to localise within the cell? It doesn't affect the imaging performance either way, but I'm curious. Data acquisition and analysis: it would be nice to know the total elapsed time of the 200-frame video, and ideally the exposure time if that's available. A comment on how far the stage drifted laterally over that time might also be helpful (particularly because there will, presumably, be axial drift that is not corrected for). Do the authors believe drift was the limiting factor in the resolution that was achieved? Reference [1] is the most up-to-date paper on the OpenFlexure Microscope currently published, and the authors are absolutely correct in referencing openflexure.org as the most up to date information on the project. However, we have described the microscope recently in a pre-print and I have taken the liberty of including the DOI below 1 . This version of the microscope is much closer to the one used in the present article than the earlier version described by Sharkey et al. 2 . 