 Examination on brain training method: Effects of n-back task and dual task Summary of overview: Although the authors have a large sample and an innovative approach providing their participants with several interventions in a monthly session, the groups are poorly defined and do not adhere to the literature on dual-task (see meta-analysis or reviews on the topic, for example: Verhaeghen et al. , 2003 1 , Fraser Bherer, 2013 2 ). Dual task is a combination of two tasks and when these two tasks are examined alone these are the single tasks. In the study described, I believe that the authors are comparing a combined intervention group (including dual-task, n-back, education, etc.) and an active control group (that listened to lectures), but the manuscript does not present it this way.The rationale for examining the individual components of the MoCA between the groups and correlating salivary samples is also not clear to the reader from the overview provided. There is a possible self-selection bias and confound that the "dual task group" has lower MoCA scores at baseline. There is no indication of whether or not the individual components of the combined intervention group (dual task group) improved...Did those that completed dual task training, n-back training get better on those tasks? The paper needs to be completely revised properly labelling the two groups and identifying the MoCA and the salivary measures as the primary outcome measures of interest in this study. Title: Examination on brain training method: Effects of n-back task and dual task This title does not reflect the contents of the paper Abstract: Background: Rationale for mood measures not clearly stated. Perhaps: The majority of non-drug interventions (this way there is a link with the 2 interventions (dual task + n-back studied)) Methods: 6 month intervention? Was this conducted in groups? How many times per week? Results: Many cognitive domains improved – What cognitive domains were measured? In methods, should state that participants had neuropsychological testing (if this is the measure of cognitive domains). Correlations with cognitive function and salivary α-amylase: Which cognitive functions? N-back performance, dual task performance or single task? The statement of these results is too vague. Conclusions: First sentence…perhaps functional decline can be reduced with cognitive intervention? Second sentence: “Positive mood and cognitive function were correlated, suggesting that encouraging comfort in the participant can increase the effectiveness of the intervention.” I do not understand how this conclusion stems from the correlation between salivary α-amylase and cognitive function. Introduction: “In addition, a brain training class is held once a month, and prevention interventions and cognitive function evaluations are continuously conducted.” This sentence from the introduction sounds like methodology…perhaps stated differently: In these public halls brain training classes were offered once a month and prevention interventions…. Also, how is brain training and prevention interventions different here? And what is meant by continuously conducted? Is this every week, every day? Brain training – is risk prevention class? The description that follows brain training suggests that it is an educational class not a training class. To my knowledge, the n-back task has not been validated as an effective brain training task – Can you provide a reference for this statement? There has been specific demonstration n-back training on fluid intelligence (Jaeggi and colleagues)…but broadly stating that it is valid and effective based on these results is not accurate. Rationale for all the different “interventions” is not clear. In the one session of brain training, all participants got aerobic training, n-back, dual task, lifestyle education for brain health, recreation? Methods: The distinction between what has been labeled dual task group and single task group is not clear. I believe these groups have not been appropriately labeled. Especially since the dual task group is doing more than a dual task. This is a combined intervention group that is exposed to many different interventions including dual task but is not a dual-task specific intervention group. And single task, typically this means that the person would only complete one component of the dual task - so if the task is walking and talking, then participants would only walk alone and talk alone but never perform the two tasks together. The participants chose the groups themselves? This creates a selection bias – how do you control for this? Description of the n-back task unclear. Did they have to remember one item back, two items back? See Jaeggi et al ., 2003 3 for visual description of one type of n-back task…Was this an auditory n-back task? For the dual-task, the example provided is stepping with arithmetic – were there other combinations of tasks? This is not clear from the description. Typically dual task performance is compared to single task performance on the component tasks (i.e., if stepping and arithmetic as dual task then this would be compared to performance on arithmetic alone (no stepping) or stepping alone (no arithmetic). The use of a completely different task: lecture style learning task is not an appropriate comparison for the dual task performance. Also what is a lecture style learning task? Are participants presented a lecture on some topic? Was anything measured in these trained tasks? Reaction times? Accuracy? Steps taken? Results: All participants are pooled for the correlational results? Initially you mentioned having 2 groups (dual task and single task). The MoCA is typically a global cognitive function score on 30…I have never seen this broken down by each item…it is not a neuropsychological battery – it is a global score. Can you provide rationale for this type of analysis? Was there a significant correlation between age and the global score on 30? In Table 1. Based on the global score the combined intervention group (or dual task group) had lower overall MoCA scores than the Single task group at baseline. But the change from pre to post in the global score on 30, seems larger in the dual task group (up by 4.21 points) versus single (up by only 1.49 points). Discussion: Not reviewed because other sections need major clarification. 