This study reports on reliability and reproducibility of optical coherence tomography (OCT) scans before and after manual correction in eyes with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). It concludes that manual correction improves automated segmentation and that the agreement, as evidenced by intraclass correlation coefficients and coefficients of repeatability, is better between spectral-domain OCT instruments. The study brings important numerical comparisons of measurements of central foveal thickness using different instruments. Such comparisons are crucial especially with transitioning from time-domain to spectral-domain OCT technology in ongoing and future clinical trials. The paper is well written. Minor comments for authors: The same operator acquired OCT scans of the same eyes on the same instruments. It would be useful to know how many graders and how independently performed manual correction at the Reading Center. The Spectralis system via TruTrack provides excellent ability to perform follow-up scans from the exact retinal areas. How was this dealt with using other two systems in order to avoid sampling error? Misidentification of inner retinal later is a common artifact and has been found in a large number of scans including the instruments used in this study. The authors are encouraged to cite some of those studies such as Ho et al. (2009). Another useful study to mention with respect to comparing time-domain and spectral-domain OCT instruments: Mylonas et al. (2009). Based on a study of reproducibility in Stratus OCT, any artifact resulting in an error that is more than 50m is clinically significant, suggesting 50 m as a cutoff for retreatment of neovascular AMD patients (Patel et al., 2009) . In another study any artifacts resulting in automated segmentation errors of more than 10% of the actual (manually measured) ETDRS center subfield thickness were considered clinically significant ( Browning et al. , 2008 ). In this study, some of the variations after manual correction surpassed these margins. Maybe some comment in Discussion regarding this issue. 