GENERAL COMMENTS: This is a well-written, provocative ‘Opinion Article’ that uses, in part, published observations to propose a novel hypothesis concerning the roles of Endothelin 1 (ET‐1) and Thrombospondin 1 (TSP1) in circulatory regulation. A few logical inferences upon which the supposed relationships are predicated are not immediately clear to this reviewer, but this should be easily rectified. The author’s focus upon the regulatory role of substance delivery via Thebesian veins and via flow through the coronary sinus (in their role as a “bidirectional portal system”) is notable since, to my knowledge, these structures have received almost no attention in this context. I confess to relative ignorance of the actions of ET‐1, but the pulmonary vasculature (or pulmonary smooth muscle) responds differently from the systemic in some circumstances. I asked two of my respiratory/pulmonary colleagues what the action of ET‐1 was in the pulmonary circulation, and neither knew. Please clarify ET‐1 effects on pulmonary (i.e., vs. systemic) at some appropriate point in this ms (i.e., affirm that ET‐1 vasoconstricts the pulmonary circulation). The author uses the word ‘myocard’ rather than ‘myocardium’; the latter is common English usage in this reviewer’s experience, and his use of ‘myocard’ instead was a bit distracting. The author might want to consider changing his usage to ‘myocardium’ if (and only if) he considers it likely that the majority of his readers will be more familiar with ‘myocardium’. SPECIFIC COMMENTS Abstract: The first of the uncertain logical links occurs in the first sentence of the abstract: it is unclear to me why ‘similar expression profiles’ necessarily implies that the two mediators are “dominantly synthesized in the myocard and lungs.” It is acceptable to me to leave this statement as is and clarify the logical link in the full text, but this is foundational to the author’s argument and should be sufficiently expanded to enhance clarity where most appropriate. Introduction: The opening sentence again ‘suggests’ dominant synthesis in myocard and lungs. I suggest that amplification here of this logical sequence would be the best and easiest place to make this clearer. If I’m missing something simple, I apologize! The first sentence of this next (2nd) paragraph probably needs a reference. p. 3, right column, para. 2 :It was observed…: Please reference this observation. Table 1: This is a formidable table whose ‘message’ is difficult to ferret out; simplify if practical. (Note the error in middle column, row 1: 10 L/min.) In the sentence that introduces Table 1 the word ‘surplus’ (of myocardial mediators) is used; I’m not convinced that this word is appropriate: even if only modest amounts of mediator are secreted, must not some percentage pass through the TV and CS? (Likewise on p. 5, left column, para. 3.) P 4 (of 8), right column, 3rd paragraph: The antecedent of ‘it’ in the first sentence (…endocrine loops it can be expected…) is not clear to me. I assume ‘it’ is ET‐1 or TSP1, but, as written, ‘disorder’ would seem to be the antecedent. p. 5, left column, para. beginning “Table 1 is based…”: The ‘expectation’ that stretching of the myocardium (or dilation and thereby patency of the TV in the LV) increases synthesis is important to the author’s thesis; please reference or give some validation for this ‘expectation’. Next para: The intended meaning of the opening sentence (When considering…) is not clear. p. 5, top of right column: I admit to being a bit ‘picky’, but the use of ‘it’ (It is similar…) seems weak to me. Also, would ‘into’ not be better than ‘in’ here (…ET‐1 secreted into the left heart…) p. 5, last para: I do not understand what you mean by ‘repetitive’ in this opening sentence. Cyclic? (If so, I don’t think this would be correct.) My confusion is increased by the logical connection between this (repetitive changes) and the next sentence (tissue structure integrity and cellular interconnection dependent upon repetitive.) Please clarify. p. 6, “Disorders possibly…” paragraph: Would ‘produced by’ be better than ‘of’ so sentence might read “Table 2. Shows possible damage produced by supraphysiologic…”? p. 6, left column, final line: …the excess ET‐1 … reachES (not reach) lungs. In this second autocrine loop are you referring to a loop made via the TV which would exist in all people, but become functionally important in only certain patients (e.g., Eisenmenger’s syndrome)? (I found the proposed application of your concepts to thrombus formation in the LA to be particularly interesting, though at points somewhat harder to follow and integrate with Table 3.) p. 6, last para. introducing Table 3: Do you mean “As shown in the middle row, right column of Table 3…”? In other words, it would be helpful to the reader to ‘walk him through’ Table 3 a bit more in the text. p. 7, Part V: Consider replacing the word ‘prove’ with the word ‘test’. In the opening sentence of this section “Since levels of ET‐1 and TSP1 in the peripheral vein ARE not expected…” 