 This is an interesting paper providing novel insights into the value of traditional serum markers. It is quite true that the understanding of elevated GGT values is very limited, despite the fact that this value is one of the most requested liver function tests. Most clinicians who request this test probably have no clear understanding what is being tested. It is very interesting that elevated GGT shortly after liver transplantation is associated with a better outcome. The title, abstract, data section, statistics and figures of the paper are OK, the discussion section could be a little more to the point. In my opinion there might be two reasons for an elevated GGT early after transplantation: 1) Elevated GGT is associated with oxidative stress, and some oxidative stress may prompt the hepatocyte to activate innate protective mechanisms; 2) Elevated GGT after transplantation may be an indicator of good early secretory function of the liver. GGT in part comes from the surface of the bile ducts and is released from the anchor which attaches this enzyme to the cell surface, by bile acids in bile. These same authors have shown that immediately after transplantation the bile acid/phospholipid ratio in bile is elevated and (as in MDR3 deficient/LPAC patients) this leads to elevated GGT. Thus elevated GGT immediately after transplantation indicates an active bile flow. This protects hepatocytes from cytotoxic bile acids. Later after transplantation when the BA/PL ratio has normalized, bile has lost some of its detergent action, with lower basal serum GGT levels as a result. When GGT is elevated at this stage it has become the traditional indicator of liver damage associated with a bad outcome, as the authors indicate. If the authors agree with this reasoning they could include some of these thoughts in the discussion section, in order to provide a little bit more insight into why elevation under some conditions may be beneficial as this, in my opinion, is the main and novel message of this paper. 