The authors present a method to extract from a clinical corpus novel terms used to described serious mental illness (SMI). They use vector space models to represent the relationship between words in the corpus and combine this approach with clustering techniques and manual curation to identify relevant n-grams (1, 2, or 3-word concepts). 106 concepts had no mapping to current SNOMED terms indicating that they have indeed discovered new knowledge, i.e. terms used by clinicians to describe patients that are not already included in SNOMED CT. The introduction was unusually well written, if a little longer than strictly necessary, and provided excellent motivation for the work at hand. It has been shown that SNOMED coverage of mental health terms is sub-optimal and this is a clever approach to learning new relevant terms in a semi-automated manner. For the rest of the paper, each individual part was well written, but I had a hard time seeing how they flowed together. Figure 1 was a helpful overview, but I still found it difficult to follow how the sub-steps tied in together and in some cases why they were important. e.g. How did creation of the putative cluster of 38 terms help? I think it was to facilitate the scoring method, but I wasn't completely clear how. Why 38? Particularly when the clusters they later looked at were so much larger, not clear why that number was chosen. I found the math/logic challenging to follow. (Admittedly, I am not a statistician, and was not previously familiar with CBOW.) It was helpful that the authors included examples in some places, but they could have gone even further to make the approach concrete. Toy examples of u1 and v1 would help. On first and second read, I was having a hard time with intuition for what a high-scoring cluster means. I now realize (I think?) it meant the cluster was particularly enriched for mental health terms. It might be helpful to state that- for some reason I was thinking it meant that the concepts were relatively similar/cohesive? I had trouble wrapping my head around the sentence "we scored each cluster based on the number of per concept hits to derive a cluster/concept count matrix x where xi,j represents the count of the ith concept in the jth cluster." I think it means 38 rows, 1 for each concept and 3 columns, 1 for each cluster, and the value of the cell is the number of times that concept was encountered in some form in the cluster? Equations could also be numbered for reference. The authors report choosing not to perform stemming/lemmatization in order not to make assumptions about the structure of the data, but this decision is not very well explained or justified. Indeed they call it out as a potential limitation in Discussion. It would be useful/interesting to try the approach both ways and see if the results were different. How were the 8 "substantive categories" chosen? Why does inter-rater agreement matter in mapping the concepts to those categories? Was it only that the ability to map them to a single category makes it more likely the concept is semantically interesting and reliable? The authors mention that the semantic similarity of n-grams is often measured via their cosine distance between vectors in the W matrix. Just out of curiosity, could distance in the W' matrix be used as well/instead? My "partly" answer to "Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others?" reflects the fact that the authors very reasonably cannot publish the raw data, but they do address how to obtain the data through a formal application process. (Ergo the "Yes" to whether source data are available, even if not readily…) It would be helpful if code were to be made available. Minor: Page 3, paragraph 4 should be employS curated terminology Page 6 line 5 should have ) after "Table 1" 