Pearse presents a new means for visualizing large phylogenies called the fibre plot. The purpose of this plot is to better represent splits by different colors and shades. This is an interesting idea and is demonstrated with an accompanying animated gif. However, I am left wondering if there are significant insights gathered from this view of the mammal tree. The animation proceeds and areas of the graph change color. I understand why they change but don’t know where I am in the tree and what the significance of the change is in speed or area of the graph. The figure presented (Figure 1) shows a somewhat different view of the fibre plot as presented alongside the phylogeny. This makes me think that perhaps a more informative presentation would be the view of the phylogeny along with the fibre plot. Then the animation would follow a line that moves in a preorder fashion from the root to the tips. This would allow for a more direct comparison of the tree and the plot. Without this additional guide, I am not sure what to make of the animation. I don’t know where I am in the tree (in time or place) and I can’t “move around” in any particular way. I can also envision any number of statistics presented with the plot. This is an interesting start of an idea but I think it needs a little more development before it would be useful for navigating the size of the tree intended by the author. However, there may be some interesting uses for this or something like it in the future. Editorial comments I recommend that the author edit the abstract. For example, the sentence “Despite the progress that has been made in the visualisation of information since Haeckel's time, phylogenetic visualisation has moved forward remarkably little.” seems to suggest that Haeckel was the first person to try and visualize data. While this may be accurate for some biological data, it is not true for data in general as cartographers have been trying to visualize information and data for centuries. The final sentence in the paragraph could also use some adjustments. While the statement is trying to convey a general sense of the importance of phylogenies, I am not certain that “our place” in the tree of life will dramatically change as a result of visualization of the data. I would also recommend changes to the intervening sentences. I would recommend some changes to the remaining text but won’t outline all of those here.