The paper by Boulton and Lenton “A new method for detecting abrupt shifts in time series” proposes an alternative to the previously published change-point techniques (methodology and R package software). I think the paper is interesting and can be indexed after revision. In particular, the authors may be interested to look at the recent paper: Beaulieu C. and R. Killick (2018) 1 and the corresponding software package ‘EnvCpt’ that performs automatic selection between a variety of trends, changepoints and autocorrelation models, found here . On page 2, the authors mention that the red noise “can produce what appears as abrupt shift in time series, although it is debated whether they should be described as such”. A time series with a dynamically changing scaling exponent of red noise actually provides the underlying mechanism of a gradual tipping, as confirmed by several indicators for early warning signals (see Prettyman et al. , EPL 2018 2 ). This should be distinguished from the red noise with a single fixed scaling exponent that does not change with time (and that may be the case of absence of a tipping point). This needs to be discussed more clearly, otherwise an unprepared reader could be misled regarding the role of memory in tipping dynamics. In particular, this should be better described in the Abstract (or removed from there for simplicity). Since the object of analysis is a single-variable time series, the authors actually calculate not gradient (which is by definition multi-variate) but a discrete derivative in each subset of data. It would be good to see a systematic ensemble experiment estimating the success rate of the technique performance for a range of: jumps heights at change points (with respect to the series noise level), lengths of time series, and window sizes (similar to Fig.2 but in a broader range of parameters and with summary over multiple samples rather than a few examples). It is not clear to me why the detection series is always within the interval [-1,1] – do the authors normalise this series? On page 2, the authors say that they “add or subtract 1 to the relevant l-long segments of a detection time series which contains only 0s otherwise”- but in (Fig.2f,i) there are also non-zero and non-one values, why? The discussion of the threshold choice could be improved for better clarity, in my opinion. Maybe some diagram could help visually here. 