This article presents a pedagogical experience in which 3D printed objects were used to promote the understanding of biochemistry concepts in two student-centred interactive sessions within a course. The design is based in the advances and availability of 3D printing technology and the importance of conceptualizing three-dimensional structure in order to understand biochemistry core concepts such as the relationship between the structure and function of proteins. 3D printing technology is in fact becoming increasingly accessible and it is contributing and changing many fields. Undoubtedly, education should benefit from this technology, probably many teachers are thinking about it, including myself. Thus, experiences on how to implement it in class are interesting and valuable. In this sense, this work can contribute with relevant information. Nevertheless, some aspects need to be addressed, clarified or discussed further so that weaknesses and strengths are identified, which will allow replicating or improving the shared experience. In this context, the following suggestions could improve this manuscript: Title: The work is more than using 3D printed objects, it is student-centred education, interactive and motivating and specially thought to address a problem in science, to enable visualization of abstract concepts, specifically in Biochemistry. The author state that 3D structures and related problems have been presented with slides. Many teachers also use 3D visualization programs, combining theoretical and computer laboratory sessions. Differences, advantages and disadvantages between these two approaches could be discussed. The experience should be described further. What was actually done? Why were those structures chosen? Which were the concepts students were expected to learn in each session? What were the related learning outcomes? How many groups? How many molecules? Was the discussion tutored? If it was, how many tutors participated? The models seem very small, what were the structural features they had to identify mentioned in figure 3? Costs? As this experience was justified as a mean for conceptualizing 3D shapes for understanding Biochemistry, other reported experiences using molecules should be discussed and compared. For example: “The effect of student manipulation of molecular models on chemistry achievement according to Piagetian level” or “Using three-dimensional models to teach molecular structures in high school chemistry”. I am sure there are more examples, maybe even in biochemistry. The main weakness of this work is that no assessment of the approach is included. I understand that it is very difficult to assess learning gain, and that the intention of the author is modest, in the sense that this article is intended to share an experience instead of researching education. However, at least the perception of the students should have been included. This would at least suggest the strongest aspects and allowed identifying possible improvements. If the intervention is recent and there still contact with the students, there is still a possibility to conduct an online survey. If that is not the case, at least the author should comment further regarding the perception of the teacher: Did the students seem motivated? Did they participate more actively than in other activities? Did they comment informally positive aspects? Another approach could be to analyze exams answers regarding the concepts that were studied in these special sessions and compared them to those of the previous year. Despite the previous comments, I still consider that sharing this experience is valuable to the community. In this work, I particularly appreciate that the activity was implemented in a large course using a standard classroom, with no additional requirements. If the main suggestions could be addressed, I believe it would be appropriate for indexing as published in F1000Research. 