Vitamin D deficiency is indeed endemic, taking 30ng/mL as the lower limit of normality for serum 25(OH)D. And this seems correct, at least concerning bone health in postmenopausal women and elderly people. In this population D-deficiency has been associated with secondary hyperparathyroidism, increased bone turnover and loss, as well as propensity to falls, and all these factors contribute to increased fracture risk. The results presented here suggest that 25(OH)D and bone mineral density are not associated with fractures. However, some points must be considered. The authors need to clarify if there was an active search for non-clinical vertebral fractures using image methods (X-rays, VFA), as they correspond to more than half of all vertebral fractures in elderly population. If not, at least some of the patients could have been erroneously considered “non-fractured” which would interfere with future comparisons. Most previous documented fractures occurred several months before this study, and patients on adequate vitamin D supplementation were included. This would interfere with the diagnosis of vitamin D status at the time of fracture, as recognised in text “We were surprised to find that many of the patients studied had normal serum 25(OH)D levels. This is likely the result of supplementation by patients prior to referral .....” and also interfere with the valuation of absolute values at the study, as mentioned “While 25(OH)D levels may be of value in predicting fracture risk in treatment-naive patients, in those already on supplementation we found that its utility is largely limited to serving as a reference for dosing”. Thus the suggestion that D-deficiency is not associated with osteoporotic fractures because mean vitamin D levels were similar between patients with and without fractures should be reconsidered. A comment on previous use of antiosteoporosis drugs at the time fractures ocurred should be included, as this could interfere with BMD values at the study and the conclusions. Please comment on the reasons why variables whose correlation / association was not significant (p=0.2) in the univariate analysis were considered in the multivariate. 