The manuscript submitted by Morland et al. has assessed whether rats with acute or more prolonged bladder inflammation induced by turpentine oil exhibit thigmotactic behaviour as assessed in the open field paradigm. In addition, regulation of inflammatory mediators within the bladder and c-Fos immunoreactivity within the central amygdala was assessed. The authors provide a clearly defined hypothesis which they address appropriately with a number of the methodologies at hand. In the absence of a direct method to assess pain-like behaviour in the various groups I like that the authors assessed inflammatory mediator profiles using a well established methodology previously utilized in other experimental pain models (e.g. UV burn) where pain-like behaviours were measured directly. The manuscript is well written. The data have been analysed using appropriate statistical tests and the results are extensively described. Although the data ultimately reveal that instrumentation rather than inflammation per se can sufficiently induce thigmotactic behaviour this should not detract from the value of this work. Rather, the extensive description of study design, powering, randomization, blinding, exclusions and availability of their data for the scrutiny of their peers makes this work in many ways a first, and an extremely valuable addition to the field in my opinion. This said I have a number of issues with some of the included work as described in more detail below. Major points The value of the current work would have been considerably enhanced if the experimental design had included a separate arm in which vehicle treated rats were treated with an anxiolytic dose of e.g. diazepam, or a motor impairing dose of an opiate like morphine with corresponding plasma samples obtained for purposes of drug exposure. Despite the extensive detail provided within the Methods section I find it extremely difficult to judge the sensitivity of their open field paradigm without the availability of this kind of information. The inclusion of the c-Fos data in the context of the current manuscript is to be blunt, both confusing and distracting. This is not because the data are inconclusive per se, in that no differences in c-Fos immunoreactivity were noted between instrumentation or turpentine treated groups. I would have expected that the authors might have seen a more robust pattern/magnitude of c-Fos immunoreactivity if rats in these 2 groups had been sacrificed at 90 minutes after induction of the procedure rather than the following day following open field performance. Whilst careful consideration and extensive reporting of experimental design was provided in relation to performing behavioural analysis, I just cant see that the same is the case for the purposes of assessing Amygdala activation. Incidentally, without knowing precisely the function and phenotype of the c-Fos positive cells included in their analysis, I would suggest that this term is misleading I think the authors might be aware of this as indicated at the bottom of page 14. The authors specify that sequential sections were obtained from each rat. I would presume that in a number of cases depending upon the exact plane of the sections that the same positive neurones were measured more than once. Accordingly, with section numbers ranging from 1-7 per rat as indicated in Table 2 this must introduce some form of bias between treatments. This issue goes against the grain of the rigorous experimental designs employed for purposes of behavioural analyses As such, I would strongly recommend that the authors remove all c-Fos related method and results from the manuscript. Alternatively, they could provide videocapture of all sections used in their analyses and provide this for open review to see if others can replicate their finding Minor points When performing c-Fos immuno were all sections processed within the same experimental run? If not, were assays blocked appropriately to contain representative samples from each of the treatment groups? Following on from the above, a generalized positive control group (with a background in neuroendocrinology I would have included a group of rats treated with eg hypertonic saline and measured c-Fos expression within specific hypothalamic nuclei such as the SON or PVN) would have provided a general measure of assay sensitivity. Can the authors comment on whether all rats were tested during similar stages of the oestrus cycle? Does this matter? 