Although it is a brief report, it has lethal shortcomings which cannot be revised. Thus I persist to the decision "Not approved". There are some redundant presentations, such as “An interval of 65 days was provided between the corn harvesting and the rhodes grass planting. There was no interval between rhodes grass harvesting and okra planting” because it can be obtained from the growth periods descriptions, as shown in Supplementary figure 1. The first paragraph in the Results section can be deleted because it is not results, and is similar to those in the Methods section. Lots of queries in Methods: because the ridge is 1-m wide, the reader wants to know the density for planting corn, grass and okra, respectively? How much was the field capacity and how to scale the irrigation? What are the positions for measuring infiltration rates? In the supplementary figure, the corn residue applied was 2t ha-1, here it was 2 Mg ha-1? The data analysis description can be shortened and made more clear. In Figure 1, are the two greenhouses used as repeated experiments or independent experiments? If used as replicates, the data should be averagely analyzed and compared. By the way, it is better not to repeatedly use the same results in different figures. The data results for different nitrogen treatments cannot be seen here. The results and explanations are mostly a concern. The authors measured the water infiltration just after the residue was incorporated in the field. During incorporating, the root biomass and distribution in the top soil was also disturbed and rotated. The author declared that soil erosion resistance was closely related with soil water content and crop root biomass. Actually, soil erosion resistance was correlated with lots of soil traits including physical, chemical and biological traits. Crop root can improve soil erosion resistance through its fixation ability, thus the actual traits were the root length, diameter and stretching resistance. Although the root:shoot ratio is relatively stable for different plants, such an index can vary differently in response to growth conditions for each crop, especially water and fertility. 