The Center for Disease Control notes that ‘parasitic infections are typically associated with poor and often marginalized communities in low-income countries. However, these infections are also present in the United States.’ Additionally, they have designated toxoplasmosis a neglected parasitic infection and a public health priority because of the little attention it has received 1 . Based on the number of people infected, the severity of illness, and the ability for prevention and treatment, health care providers need to take note of its increasing prevalence along with the common signs and symptoms. The case report by McDermott et al. provides this opportunity. The report details a teen with a WHIM syndrome, a primary immunodeficiency disorder, who developed sudden painless right eye blindness due to ocular toxoplasmosis (OT) or toxoplasmic choroiditis 2 . However, it is unknown whether his infection was congenitally acquired or acquired later in life through contaminated food or water or possibly as a result of a blood transfusion during his Tetralogy of Fallot repair. The maternal prenatal history, birth history, and the timing of his immigration might yield some clues. There is evidence that persons with congenital infection have a higher incidence of macular involvement, as in this case, and therefore, have an increased risk of legal blindness 3 . Additionally, testing for IgM and performing a quantitative IgG avidity test may help differentiate acute from chronic infection. The avidity test is based on the immovability antigen and antibody attachment where the IgG antibody binds weakly to the antigen during the initial stage but over weeks or months progressively increases 4 5 . Patients with positive IgM and/or low IgG avidity are considered as acutely acquired cases (usually defined as acquisition of infection in recent six months. Alternately, a negative IgM and a high IgG avidity index support a more chronic infection. A recent study on immune mediators in the aqueous humor showed that IL-9 and IL-13 were significantly higher in primary OT than in recurrent OT 6 . Cases of isolated OT commonly results from reactivation of untreated congenital infection which can occur years after birth. However, it also occurs in a small percentage of people with acquired infection, especially in patients that are immunocompromised. This case heightens the awareness of the signs and symptoms, and consequences of toxoplasmosis infection for healthcare providers. It serves as an opportunity to educate patients, especially in international persons and immunocompromised individuals on common exposures, preventive measures, and treatment. 