This is a review of the protocols of RCTs, currently in progress, funded by NIHR, UK. RCTs were selected from NIHR HTA funding stream list if they claimed to be using routinely collected data for at least one study outcome. The authors found 102 trial protocols matching this criteria and from data extraction that 46 of these were using routinely collected data solely for at least one outcome. The research also found that a handful referenced previous feasibility work confirming the quality of the EHR and also gives a useful table categorising for the 102 trials how they used EHR. Major Comments I have only one major comment and it is the reason for both the ‘partly’ options below. The sample was selected to be using routinely collected data for at least one study outcome. Therefore I think the main result should contain this information. I consider that “in a UK cohort” is not enough of a description of the cohort. The fact that the sample was selected based on using routine data for an outcome is crucial in the interpretation. The main result is that of 102 protocols using routinely collected data for an outcome, 46 were using routinely collected data as their sole source for at least one outcome. 46/102=45%. Around a half of NIHR HTA funded trials that had an uploaded protocol and used routinely collected health data for at least one study outcome, used solely routinely collected data for at least one trial outcome. I think this is an important result. Minor comments Abstract – last part of the last sentence has a word missing “The majority of which were carried out in North America”. If you have space in the text, it would be useful to add the information that 30 were omitted due to not having a protocol. The flow chart shows you selected the papers by selecting RCT, those that had a protocol and then those using routinely collected data for at least one outcome. I would be tempted to list the inclusion criteria in the paper in the same order. The second inclusion criteria is “use of routinely collected health data”. Elsewhere you use the term EHR. I would be tempted to be consistent. Table 1: category 10 description appears incomplete. Table 1: could you add a footnote of the definition of a registry trial? 