This is a valuable and original contribution describing the analytical methods, data sources and overall policy approach to reviewing and attempting to adjust the health benefits package in the Philippines (based on a selection of mostly NCD interventions) using WHO’s OneHealth tool. A number of middle income countries are currently in a similar position, en route to Universal Healthcare Coverage and making a systematic attempt at revising their Benefits Package as part of the national or social health insurance funds and not many resources exist on how such a process can be carried out (e.g. see https://www.cgdev.org/publication/whats-in-whats-out-designing-benefits-universal-health-coverage for the Centre for Global Development guide to designing benefits packages). The authors succinctly summarise the challenges they faced including the limited breadth of the OneHealth models available to cover the whole spectrum of diseases the country faces. They also highlight the problematic assumption of the “null comparator”. The latter is a core element of the WHO approach to cost effectiveness analysis and makes structuring the decision problem in a way that reflects the reality policy makers are faced with, where the option of doing nothing is neither realistic nor ethical, impossible. The authors also flag up as major weaknesses the lack of national guidelines on the methods and processes for revising the package. Again there is limited global guidance as to best practice in the methods (for one example see the iDSI Reference Case to economic evaluation here http://www.idsihealth.org/resource-items/idsi-reference-case-for-economic-evaluation/ ) and processes for managing such a methodologically and politically challenging exercise. We need more such examples to be publicised and for a dialogue to start within and between countries as to how best to support policy makers achieve UHC in a fair and sustainable way. The authors may not have the answers but pose important questions for driving discussion as well as research. 