The manuscript 'The PathLinker app: Connect the dots in protein interaction networks' by Gil, Law and Murali introduces a Cytoscape app that allows the user to apply their PathLinker algorithm to find potential signaling pathways from a user-defined set of sources, targets and molecular interaction data. The underlying PathLinker algorithm has been introduced in the paper in Ritz et al. , NPJ Syst. Biol. Appl. 2016, 2:16002, indicating that the current manuscript is an extension in that it provides a Cytoscape application. The manuscript provides a crash-course in using the PathLinker algorithm, allowing the reader to quickly get into the game determining signalling paths based on the users data. As it stands, it seems to be a popular one and will be used frequently. While the manuscript gives enough information to get the user going, I would add a bit more information about the specifics of the underlying algorithm. It is based on Yen's algorithm but uses the A* algorithm instead of a shortest path algorithm. While many readers are probably familiar with the latter, the A* algorithm may need an introduction to avoid that users operate a 'black box'. In particular, the A* algorithm makes at each step an assessment of the distance to a target to find an optimal path. In this regard, it would be beneficial to add more details how this assessment works and the ways in which A* was embedded in the framework of Yen's algorithm. As for the latter, also Yen's algorithm deserves more detail as it is an algorithm that users rather rarely encounter to make the user fully aware what she is doing. In particular, such considerations are important as the authors describe in the paper different weights on interactions that may be used in different ways to assess and find optimal paths. With that said, a bit more technical information about the 'ingredients' of the algorithms that are used to compare (with regard to the ways weighting information is used) would be helpful too. Such details would allow the reader to see where the differences to (and the advantages of) the PathLinker algorithm and apps are.