In this report, Ruffle et al. present a new approach for identifying novel chimeric transcripts using CracTools. They classify the transcripts into four categories: 1) different chromosomes (interchromosomal translocations), 2) co-linear but from different genes (putative transcriptional read through or complex intrachromosomal structural variation), 3) exons from same chromosome but are not in the expected order based on the reference (tandem duplication, complex intrachromosomal rearrangement), or 4) exons on same chromosome but different strands. The authors then go on to validate a subset of putative new chimeric transcripts using RT-PCR and FISH. These types of studies have been previously performed. One new aspect of this study is the stranded library preparation which allows for the identification of the class 4 chimeras. In addition, they tried to minimize the bias in their analysis pipeline by not relying on a reference genome, which enabled the discovery of new transcripts. Overall, their approach provides a validated new strategy for identifying novel transcripts in RNA-seq data. Major Concerns The authors do not discuss circular RNA, which are likely to make up a large portion of their class 3 chimeras as found in many recent studies. The low numbers of class 3 chimeras also raises concerns about the sensitivity of the approach, as most recent studies have found thousands of circular RNA isoforms per sample. The total RNA underwent RT with random primers, which would retain circular RNA. It is not clear if there was a polyA-selection step after that point or if the total RNA was ribosomal depleted. If it was the former, the circular transcripts would not be present. If the RNA was not polyA-selected, the authors should specifically discuss the PML-RARA circular transcripts recently discovered in acute promyelocytic leukemia. I am not aware of any independent validation of that work. Minor Concerns The authors should read the manuscript closely for typos. For example in the AML samples and cells lines section there are commas where there should be periods, in the FISH methods section there are degree signs instead of percent, and two paragraphs before the discussion there is MDR instead of MRD. The authors should include the kits used for ribosomal RNA-depletion/polyA-selection, as well as stranded library preparation. What mechanisms do the authors have in mind for a structural variant and/or alternative splicing event that would result in class 4 chimeras, as they would not occur as a result of transcriptional read through of the same strand? The resolution is too low for Figure 5A. 