The article, submitted by Queiroz dos Santos et al ., aims to extract (0.02 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6.0) and fractionate the proteins [with ammonium sulfate at 30% (w/v) – F1 and at 30–60% (w/v) - F2] of seeds from Eucalyptus sp , and to evaluate the protein pattern of the fractions by SDS-PAGE 12.5% electrophoresis, as well its hemagglutinant, hemolytic, trypsin inhibition, anticoagulant activities. This one needs to provide a major review and English review. Is the work clearly and accurately presented and does it cite the current literature? Response: in part. See comments below. Is the study design appropriate and is the work technically sound? Response: in part. See comments below. Are sufficient details of methods and analysis provided to allow replication by others? Response: should be better detailed to replication. If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Response: it is important to include. Are all the source data underlying the results available to ensure full reproducibility? Response: in part. See comments below. Are the conclusions drawn adequately supported by the results? Response: yes, are in accordance with demonstrated results. Major Reviews Introduction : Question: Are there studies involving some biological activities, more related to the present study, described for Eucalyptus genus? If positive, include in the introduction and discussion. Why evaluate these biological activities for Eucalyptus ? Improve this point. Methods : should be better detailed to allow replication. Question: Is there are an exsiccate number of this plant? Botanical Identification? How much seeds and of powdered were used? Sentence: ...”The ground seeds were then homogenized in 0.02 M sodium phosphate buffer, pH 6.0” - what proportion? Sentence: “crude extract (EB)” - correct acronym. Sentence: “method described by Bradford (Bradford, 1976) with adaptations for microplate assay” – cite reference of the microplate method. hemagglutination unit (U.H.) - correct acronym. Hemagglutinating activity: cite reference of the method. Hemolytic activity: cite reference of the method; Include statistical analysis; Results and Discussion Table 1: EB, F1 and F2: to present the yields; Are there carbohydrates in these samples? It is important to dose. Discuss why the difference in specific activity between F1 and F2 (i.e. yield, total protein, degree of purity); Is important to add a negative control; Include in discussion the relation between the results obtained in SDS-PAGE and trypsin inhibitory activity; Table 2: Improve the presentation of Table 2, the current format is confusing; Include the blood clotting time obtained in presence of EB, F1 and F2; Include negative and positive controls; Thrombin time (common pathway) and prothrombin (extrinsic pathway) has not been evaluated? Discuss it. Figure 1: Include MW of the others markers protein; Which component present in the samples is under BSA? Identify its MW in figure; EB and F1 electrophoretic profile is different from F2 fraction? Explain. Include in discussion what’s relation between F1 electrophoretic profile and its higher specific inhibitory activity? Electrophoresis: these MW obtained is characteristic of other protease inhibitors? Figures 2 and 3: What’s the importance of enzymatic treatment with papain and trypsin? Why the results were higher with treated blood? Include in discussion; F2 was not tested in haemagglutinating activity? Include in the discussion the justification for this; Why did the blood type "O" treated with trypsin not increase HU? Only treated with papain, is there any reason for that? References: Standardize according to the rules of F1000Research. 