Overall, I believe this is a laudable proposal for a code of practice in academic peer review. In one sense it would be nice if such a code was unnecessary; after all, most of the practices outlined here should form part of any graduate training in science. In practice, of course, we know that the reality of peer review often falls short of achieving its aims. Here the authors outline 5 key principles and 17 key practices, which - if adhered to - would likely result in a more transparent and effective peer review mechanism. While I am supportive of this initiative, I do have some concerns about the way it is presented and I also wonder how adhering to it could be incentivised. I will outline below some suggestions for possible improvement: The authors begin by outlining the 17 key practices and only at the end do they group them together within governing principles. I think the overall structure of the paper would be clearer if this order were reversed - beginning with the five principles, explaining the key practices in each case that serve them, before returning to the code of practice or "oath" as the authors call it. Some of the individual practices in the oath are somewhat ambiguous to me, and others seem to overlap. For instance, what exactly does it mean for a reviewer to "state their limits"? This is elaborated later under principle 2 but I would recommend clearer descriptions at all times. Other practices seem very similar, or least belong to common subsets of behaviour; e.g. practice 7 and practice 10; practice 2 and 6; practices 13, 14, 15 and 16 are all very similar and not clearly distinguished. With some careful attention I suspect the number of practices here could be halved, which would improve readability and likely uptake. The language expanding on some of the core principles is perhaps little purple in places, e.g. " I will use the majority of to balance the in my review by sharing the content." Im not entirely sure what this means, but if it refers to the intention to balance sharp critical feedback with constructive suggestions or positive feedback, this could perhaps we said in a more straightforward way. The authors should bear in mind that not all readers will have English as a first language, and so more direct and less metaphorical phrasing could widen the appeal. Two concerns with signed reviews need to be addressed. The first is the potential negative consequences felt by junior (non-tenured) scientists or minorities, who could, at least in theory, face severe repercussions for criticizing the work of senior/powerful colleagues who sit on editorial boards or grant panels. In my mind this conflict has never been properly addressed; while I believe it is completely reasonable for tenured scientists to be open and accountable in their reviews (I always sign mine), it is questionable whether this should be required uniformly across science. The second concern with open reviewing is the potential legal backlash of scientists being sued by litigious authors who feel aggrieved by a reviewers published comments. We are seeing this already on PubPeer and elsewhere. This raises the question of who assumes legal responsibility for the content of a signed review. In the case of F1000Research , for instance, does it or will it provide legal indemnity to reviewers who choose to unmask themselves? Finally, I would prompt the authors of this paper to consider, and ideally speculate on, ways their oath (or code of practice as I would call it) might be implemented and incentivised in science. Could it, for instance, be worked into the next REF in some way? How could this be achieved and what challenges would need to be overcome? How does this initiative relate to other emerging group-led initiatives, such as the Agenda for Open Research (https://agendaforopenresearch.org/)? There authors have no shortage of good intentions but as we know, there lies a world of groupthink and social inertia between good intentions and good practices. Regardless of the above concerns, I applaud this much-needed call for greater transparency in the peer review process.