This is an opinion article on issues surrounding intellectual property regimes. It is well written and easy to read. As an opinion piece it cites previous publications and does not generate new data or knowledge. The main thesis of the article is that intellectual property regimes in cultivated plants are "neither necessary nor sufficient to generate socially beneficial improvements in crop plants and maintain agrobiodiversity". The authors go further and dispute the benefits of IP in spurring innovation and greater gains in plant improvement, a conclusion many would dispute. I am quite open to this argument and the authors do a good job citing literature to support their position. The authors also discuss the negative effects of IP on 'collaborative and cumulative plant breeding', a conclusion with which, I think, most observers would agree. They also blame the use of IP for the decline of pubic plant breeding at universities, NGOs, and International Centers. While IP may have a role in this decline, neoliberal economic policies have been the main culprit. In fact we can locate the rise of IPP in plant breeding on those economic policies. Despite this quibble over the decline in public plant breeding, I tend to agree with, or at least am open to, many of the authors arguments. My main concern with the article is that while they did an extensive literature review of papers that support their point of view, the review of the extensive body of opposing literature is almost non-existent. The few papers they mentioned are often from companies, which some readers might dismiss out of hand. Many readers, especially those antagonistic to the authors' thesis, will dismiss the current article because it does not address any of the numerous opposing publications and the data they include. I suggest the authors start by reviewing Smith et al., 2016 1 and the literature contained therein. This is a review that comes to a diametrically opposed conclusion from the current paper. It has an extensive citation list supporting their conclusions. I will state here that I do not agree with many of the conclusions and extrapolations in Smith et al. 1 but it and many other articles opposing the conclusions of the current piece are out there and they need to addressed be the authors for this article to be taken seriously. Finally, in the authors' promotion of open source proposals, they recognize the concerns of food and seed sovereignty movements, but they do not address the chilling effect of the derivative clause on the widespread use of germplasm developed with public funds. To justify public support of breeding programs the germplasm needs to be made available as widely as possible with freedom to operate. Many public and private breeders will not use open source material because of restrictions on ownership of derivatives. 