 The heading of the article should be “The risk factors of pregnancy induced hypertension in Lao PDR: A case-control study ” because there were other three risks factors in the article that significantly effect on PIH (as shown in the Table 2. Not only the numbers of antenatal care. There are some mistakes in the discussion part: "We also found that a history of abortion is a protection factor for PIH, which was similar to a study in Iran and Norway" Ref 22 - From Norway: The effect of recurrent miscarriage and Infertility on the risk of pre eclampsia. Trogstad L1, Magnus P, Moffett A, Stoltenberg C. RESULTS: An increased risk of pre-eclampsia, although not statistically significant, was found for women with recurrent miscarriages (adjusted OR 1.51 , 95% CI 0.80-2.83). Women who had ever been treated for infertility also had increased risk (adjusted OR 1.29, 95% CI 1.05-1.60). When these two risk factors were combined, the adjusted odd ratio for pre-eclampsia was 2.40 (95% CI 1.11-5.18) Ref 23 -Sepidarkish M, Almasi-Hashiani A, Maroufizadeh S: Association between previous spontaneous abortion and pre-eclampsia during a subsequent pregnancy. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2017; 136(1): 83–86. Results: In total, 5170 patients were interviewed and 252 had experienced pre-eclampsia. The number of previous spontaneous abortions was found to be associated with pre-eclampsia, and a higher number of previous spontaneous abortions was associated with increased odds of patients having experienced pre-eclampsia (adjusted odds ratio 1.28, 95% confidence interval 1.03-1.59; P=0.025). Conclusion: A history of spontaneous abortion was associated with increased odds of pre-eclampsia during a subsequent pregnancy.Both studies showed that the history of abortion increased odds ratio of PIH. In the discussion part should add some explanations in each factor The inadequate ANC numbers – how to explain for the increase PIH such as an early ANC can give some medication for prophylaxis (calcium supplementation in high risk pregnant women), etc.​​​​​​ The excessive weight gained – how to clarify the pathophysiology or from an inadequate nutrition? (or may correlated with other medical diseases such as GDM). Received adequate information about PIH – please give more detail about the information that can help to protect the event of early detection for PIH. The result should include the delivery method, length of hospital stays (which will show the indirect way of other complications that occurred to the mother) and newborns’ outcome. Were there any differences outcome between the two groups that had the significant risk factors? 