The authors have written an R package that does some useful tasks in aggregating and manipulating incidences and plotting them. For the most part the paper is clearly written and technically correct, and the package seems well-constructed. The abstract says that the package is "solely dedicated to building, handling and plotting epidemic curves", although it also fits simple epidemic models to incidence data. Overall I think this package is sensible and well-designed. My only major concern is with the log-linear fitting procedures; on the one hand, the authors say clearly that there are many fitting procedures which cannot (and should not) all be squeezed into this package, and I suspect that they don't intend these fits to be taken as very precise measures of the growth rate. On the other hand, I'm quite concerned by the possibility that users will take growth rates and confidence intervals estimated by these simplistic fits too seriously. There are a number of delicate issues around the estimation of epidemic growth rates: Assume log-Normal incidence (as done by a log-linear fit), or make other distributional assumptions (e.g. Poisson or negative binomial)? If using exponential or log-linear fits, what time window should one use to capture enough of the beginning of the epidemic but not bias the growth rate downward by capturing the saturation phase of the epidemic (Ma et al. , 2014 1 )? Should one allow for the influence of both process and measurement error (King et al. , 2015 2 )? Is growth exponential or sub-exponential (Viboud et al. , 2016 3 )? I think I would have preferred that, if they were not going to go deeply into this area, that the authors instead provide some sort of non-parametric smooth fit (perhaps constraining the changes to be monotonically increasing before the peak and decreasing after the peak) rather than oversimplifying in this way. The minimal change that is needed to the document is a stronger set of caveats/warnings to users that the log-linear model may have major shortcomings in some circumstances, and should not be accepted unquestioningly. The package suggests that the fit() function is extendable to allow other fitting methods ("While the incidence package returns incidence_fit objects containing log-linear models by default, they can be constructed from any model from which it’s possible to extract the growth rate (r) and predict incidence along the model"); I wasn't able to figure out how to achieve that goal. The main use of the package is for converting from line lists to aggregated incidence data. It would be useful (I can't tell if it's possible) to easily be able to aggregate data that are already in date/incidence form to coarser scales, or to approximately disaggregate incidence data. I had trouble fitting epidemic curves to data sets that only included incidence up to the peak or shortly beyond (it seems that the model was automatically trying to estimate a decline rate as well as an increase rate). This seems like an odd choice for a tool that people may be using to work with data from emerging epidemics that have not yet peaked. Minor comments: p. 3, paragraph 1: missing space before ( p. 3, paragraph 3: maybe R "language" or "environment" rather than "software" (R defines itself as "a language and environment for statistical computing and graphics")? Last paragraph of intro: comma before "which aims to fill this gap"? Methods, paragraph 2: Probably don't need to say "numeric and integer" values, "numeric" would suffice (is.numeric(1L) is TRUE in R). Methods, paragraph 2: "can not" - "cannot". How do subsets and indexing work with dates? Figure 1 caption: delete "both"? "created from these where it checks and validates" - "created from these components after checking and validating" ? "[Fitting] of log-linear models is depicted in the lower left"? (Technically, the addition of log-lin models to the plot is depicted along the bottom edge, or in the lower right). p. 5: "boo[t]strap". 