Hanson and Ballantyne describe the development of HRM-based single- and multiplex assays for the identification of forensically relevant cell types. These assays are potentially a rapid and relatively inexpensive alternative for mRNA profiling methodologies such as qRT-PCR assays and CE analysis of fluorescently labeled RT-PCR products. The research is scientifically sound and follows a well-designed stepwise approach. The study is focused at assay development and specificity testing. Known markers were chosen (some more studied such as HTN3, ALAS2, MMP10, TGM4 than others eg IL19, CCL27, IL1F7) that show good specificity with the body fluids tested. The rationale, results and interpretation of the data are well-described although some figures could be improved (if possible) by using different colors: the use of pink and red to discriminate MMP10 and ALAS2 in Fig2A is somewhat challenging to the eye, and when yellow is used (Fig1D, 2B, 3A, 4B) I found some details quite hard to discern. The authors state ‘the results demonstrate the potential use of HRM assays for the screening of biological evidence’ and ‘we describe the development and initial performance evaluation of the developed HRM assays’. This raises the question what would be needed before HRM assays would be suited for casework? In our laboratory, numerous cases have been analyzed using end-point RT-PCR multiplexes on both cell and organ typing detected by CE. These cases have taught us that most/many forensic casework samples will be 1) mixtures of various cell types and 2) of limited stain size. Thus, besides good specificity, sensitivity and the ability to handle (unequal) mixtures are important performance characteristics for RNA assays. The capacity to analyze unequal mixtures will depend on the analysis method. When using CE platforms for instance, high mixture components may result in pull-up signals and artifact peaks that can mask the presence of the minor components or complicate RNA profile interpretation. Thus, I would like to invite the authors to comment on the expected performance of HRM assays when analyzing unequal mixtures. Furthermore, as this initial study did not yet assess sensitivity, I am interested in the authors’ thoughts on the sensitivity that they perceive for HRM-based RNA assays. Overall, I compliment the authors with this study and the novelty they bring to the forensic field.