The authors address the question if high frequency jet ventilation (HFJV) affects blood gases when applied during sterotactic ablation of liver tumours. This procedure has evolved as an auspicious treatment in the field of hepatic oncology. It is crucial to minimize the movement of the liver to establish optimal conditions for the surgeon throughout the intervention. Hence, HFJV has evolved as a promising method. No data are available so far on the effects of HFJV on gas exchange during stereotactic ablation of liver tumours. Therefore, 25 patients have been involved in this observational study. Blood gases were assessed before induction and every 15 minutes during HFJV and finally in the recovery area after extubation. No hypoxia could be observed in any of the patients even though p aO 2 /F I O 2 showed a wide range. P aCO 2 increased during HFJV and returned to baseline levels after extubation. pH decreased due to CO 2 retention during HFJV. There was no correlation between p aO 2 /F I O 2 and CO 2 . The authors conclude that HFJV does not cause hypoxaemia during stereotactic liver ablation under general anaesthesia but that gas exchange is slightly impaired during the procedure. This article makes an important contribution to the anaesthetic practice during stereotactic ablation of liver tumours. Working conditions for the surgeon can be optimised by HFJV without compromising the patient's gas exchange and metabolic status. The manuscript is well written and attractive. The abstract fulfils its purpose in giving a clear overview of the whole study. The background of the intervention as well as the importance in the oncological field and the problems associated with ventilation are clearly pictured in the introduction. A sound description of the aims of the study are also provided. The study population, anaesthetic methods and blood gas analysis are soundly described in the methods section. The presentation of the results is clear and straightforward with well-designed graphs and tables to illustrate the outcome parameters. Every result is discussed and literature in the field is cited and compared with the findings of this study. A perspective for future studies is given and the promising conclusion is drawn that HFJV is feasible to use during liver tumour ablation without causing hypoxia or an increase in lactate although a moderate impairment in gas exchange was observed during the procedure. All in all, I think that this paper is an important addition to the literature with a well-thought-out protocol, clear results and a promising conclusion. It is scientifically sound and should be accepted for indexing. 