Thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on this important paper. This unique pilot study provides a strong beginning case for direct brain-to-brain communication. Further research along these lines incorporating advanced EEG analysis and brain-computer interface (BCI) technologies will lead to important insights about mechanisms underlying innate human Psi abilities while also developing practical approaches that will enhance the human capacity to both and discrete units of at a distance. The protocol used to create a maximally stimulus in the brain of the stimulated person is a novel approach to Psi research based on the (reasonable) assumption that the sound of a crying baby is very distressing to most humans and thus may represent a maximally arousing stimulus. In a future study it would be interesting to measure EEG activity in a matched control group to determine whether or in what ways background EEG activity may change when the control group is exposed to the recorded sound of a baby crying. I believe it would add rigor to your methodology to develop a data set of EEG responses to the stimulus (ie, through recordings from a representative cross-section of different ages and genders, etc) and to compare this response to findings from the pilot study and future research findings. I am interested to know how you decided on the stimulus duration and interval between stimuli. I am also interested to know how you determined the total duration (15 minutes). Were you concerned with subject fatigue? Did you arrive at these parameters from insights gained during the training phase? I am curious as to whether you might have obtained more robust correspondences using either a longer stimulus duration or a longer experiment duration. Your comments on this would be very useful. In terms of the algorithm of checking EEG data between and for apparent above-chance correspondences, did you examine data during simultaneous recording epochs only, and did you consider examining the data for possible correspondences off-set in time? There appears to be an implicit assumption in your methodology that any significant correspondences between 2 (or more brains) will take place simultaneously or in the same general time Along these lines it would be interesting to design statistical methods that could test for a time effect that may take place in your model of direct brain-to-brain communication. I did not completely understand the goals of the training phase or how this is done. It would be helpful to have a clearer and more detailed description of this part of the study. My understanding is that subjects are initially to achieve robust responses to the baby cry stimulus after which they enter into the experiment so that it will then be more likely that they will experience EEG responses of the type your algorithm is designed to detect. By extension, if the EEG response following stimulation by the baby cry sound is robust and consistent across subjects, is your assumption that this stimulus would more likely a distant in the receiver? In this case is really about trying to optimize/maximize signal to noise ratio in the distant signal that may entangle two (or more) brains following the baby cry stimulus? If I understand correctly, the classification algorithm built into the software comprises the critical aspect of your study in that the strength of your findings rests on the assumption that the correspondences in EEG activity obtained using the BrainScanner software and the Emotiv Neuroheadset are equivalent to real-time changes in EEG activity between two or more subjects monitored in parallel. Along these lines it would be helpful to clarify why the algorithm built into the software is the most appropriate algorithm for the study goals you have in mind. A more complete explanation of this point would also help me better understand your arguments for validating the significance of findings of apparent correspondences between the selected stimulus (ie, sound of baby crying) and general or specific changes in EEG activity in the Regarding the kind of information extracted from raw data, does the algorithm compare measures of discrete simple parameters like measures of amplitude, frequency and wavelength or more complex dynamic measures, for example cordance? Along these lines, if cordance is taken into account, does the algorithm analyze cordance with respect to mean differences between two or more brain regions? Does the algorithm average over different frequency or time domains, if so what are the parameters and threshold values and how are these derived and defended in developing your methods? Along these lines, it would be helpful in the discussion section to comment on the observation of apparent correspondences between EEG traces in two or more humans because of common EEG dynamics, and in to include remarks that artifacts and shared EEG dynamics have been ruled out providing a compelling argument that findings cannot be explained away by these phenomenon. One potential concern along these lines is that the built-in software algorithm may be removing or simplifying particular EEG features prior to analysis which may in turn result in the appearance of greater uniformity and therefore the appearance of above-chance correspondences between two or more EEG tracings. In future studies it will be important to employ EEG apparatus and filtering software that directly address the possibility of apparent correspondences as an artifact of automated EEG filtering prior to analysis. The question concerns whether, in the absence of the software algorithm imposing on more primitive signals, there would still be a statistically significant correspondence between two (or more) simultaneous recordings from two or more brains. Another phenomenon that that may give the appearance of significant real-time correspondences where none are present, and that should be directly addressed in future studies, has to do with the finding that a significant component of average EEG activity reflects widely shared EEG dynamics among the majority of humans in other words EEG activity between two or more humans probably varies in non-random ways. Such patterned non-random EEG activity may result in the appearance of correspondences when two or more brains are monitored. This issue has been raised in previous critiques of EEG (and fMRI) Psi studies. In order to build a compelling case that your findings do not incorporate bias and to verify a Psi effect you may first need to provide strong evidence ruling out artifacts or apparent correspondences between unique EEG traces due to widely shared EEG dynamics, as both may lead to the appearance of above-chance correspondences. This will require careful analysis of the recording method used, assumptions built into the software algorithm, and statistical methods used to test for significance.