 Introduction: “Aquaculture activities are responsible for the supply of fish for human consumption. To meet the demand for food from aquaculture production, competition uses natural resources, such as land and water 1 – 3 . Many studies state that aquaculture production depends on many factors, including its species, aquaculture system, technical efficiency, production inputs, and infrastructure” - This is a rather convoluted paragraph. Please rephrase to improve coherence. “In 2018, the total aquaculture production in Indonesia was 16,032,122 metric tons” - That is probably correct, but then you go on to state that it all comes from fish culture. I think (supported by FAO 2018 yearbook) that around 12 million tons is seaweed. Please check and correct. ”synthetic sheet ponds..” - I would prefer “artificial ponds lined with membranes” or something similar It is not clear to me what is meant by ”middle-scale commercial culture”. Is this in relation to intensity? Please clarify. MM: “Feed conversion efficiency (FCE) = [fish weight gain (g)/total feed ingested (g)] Apparent feed conversion rate (AFCR) = supplied feed/increase fish weight” - It is interesting that you have two indicators of feed performance where one is listed as apparent. I presume that feed waste was not collected in any of your rearing systems, and therefore all of your feed intake are apparent and based on “supplied feed”, also the FCE. “Waste load of feed = [feed intake (kg)] – [final biomass (kg)]” - I am not familiar with this variable, nor do I completely understand what it signifies, but presumably, it should be biomass gain, and not just final biomass? Results: One of the things that can explain the observed differences in growth performance is likely to be your water quality parameters. While it is fine with the PCA plot, I would really like to see the water quality measurements in a table. Once these are available, perhaps it would be possible to discuss which water quality parameters would be essential to control to successfully produce gourami in land-based systems. 