This paper presents a new R package for the analysis of T-cell and B-cell clonotypes inferred from V(D)J recombination events. The package is designed for the analysis of data generated using the 10x Genomics V(D)J kit that allows clonotypes and transcriptomes to be co-assayed in the same individual cells. Overall the package appears to fill an unmet need in the analysis of single-cell V(D)J data, and works nicely with the existing Seurat package for single-cell analysis. While the focus of the paper is on the software, a more detailed explanation of the biology of V(D)J recombination and how this information is detected in single cells would improve the clarity of the manuscript. A description of the major existing challenges and goals of immune clonotype analysis could also be added. I do not have extensive expertise in the immunology and so my review focuses on the software implementation. I leave discussion of the value and impact of the software to other reviewers. However I will reiterate comments from other reviewers in saying that there should be a distinction made between T and B cell clonotypes, due to the Ig class switching that occurs in B cells. The paper also states that “The expression data for the 12,911 cells built into the package”. I believe the clonotype information is included in the package in the data directory, but I don’t think the expression data is included. Including large gene expression matrix within the R package is not advisable anyway, and the authors should make it available through other means (NCBI GEO, for example). Code review I would encourage the authors to submit the package to CRAN or another R repository. This assist in the distribution of the package, and the process of getting the package accepted on CRAN will likely greatly improve the code quality. At a minimum, the authors should try to get the package to pass R CMD check with no notes, warnings, or errors. Currently the package includes all rendered figures in the vignettes folder. I would recommend removing these files, and also removing the `ggsave` function calls within the vignette to prevent these files being written while compiling the vignette. This will reduce the size of the package. Several functions in the package use scoping assignment to assign variables in the global environment. This is considered bad practice and should be avoided in all cases. Extra files such as .DS_Store should be removed from the git repository and from the package. Use the .gitignore and .Rbuildignore files for this. Avoid importing code within R functions, for example `require(ggplot2)` calls. Instead, document the dependencies using roxygen2, for example `@importFrom ggplot2 ggplot`. To access data in a Seurat object, I highly recommend using the functions defined in Seurat for this purpose rather than accessing the slots directly. For example, use obj[[]] to access metadata rather than obj@meta.data and Idents(obj) rather than obj@active.ident In general the documentation of functions can be greatly improved. Try to include a text description of each function, a detailed description of the parameters, document the returned values, and include an executable example. It is generally not advisable to overwrite functions in base R or other packages with variable names, for example the `call` variable in `clonalDiversity` overwrites the base R `call` function. Replace code like `class(df)[1] == “Seurat”` with `inherits(x = df, what = "Seurat”)` In plotting functions such as clonalOverlap, consider returning the ggplot object rather than printing the object. For example, replace `suppressWarnings(print(plot))` with `return(plot)`. This will allow users to modify the plot that is generated. Some code sections are duplicated, for example L91:104 and L131:144 in seuratFunctions.R. Consider putting duplicated code into functions. Imported functions should be added to the namespace. Documenting the imports using roxygen2 (as has been done for parameters and exports) will take care of this. The highlightClonotypes function is a bit redundant with existing functions in Seurat, ie DimPlot function with the cells.highlight parameter. 