In their study, the authors investigate the effect of L-sulforaphane (LSF) on the lipid distribution and proliferation of ARPE-19 cells with the conclusion that LSF changes the lipid distribution and induces proliferation. While the study is of interest, especially as lipids are a major yet understudied aspect of age-related macular degeneration, there are some major concerns. The most pressing concern is that the claims made by the authors concerning the effect on proliferation are not really shown by the data. Introduction The claims make in the introduction are not always accurate. The authors state that “each of these treatments resulted in the development of atrophic scars and haemorrhage”. This is not correct. Haemorrhage is very seldom found after anti-VEGF treatment. Also, while atrophic degenerations (not "scars") are found in patients treated with anti-VEGF treatment, it is still under debate whether there are because of in spite of the treatment. The authors also state that AMD “is known to be regulated by genes such as VEGFA or GSTM1”. This is imprecise. When it comes to risk factors, the most important genes are of the complement system.The secreted VEGF-A protein is very important for late exudative AMD development. A more careful wording is requested. Methods Please include briefly in the appropriate subsection what exactly is measured in the FAME analysis. Results The authors claim that LSF incudes proliferation in ARPE-19 cells after H 2 O 2 treatment, shown in MTS assay. This conclusion is problematic, as the authors to not actually show the proliferation. The same effect seen in the results could be the result of a protective effect of LSF against oxidative stress induced cell death. Unfortunately, the authors do not show to what extend cell death is induced by H 2 O 2 , as they use the H 2 O 2 treated cells as the 100% control. This is not appropriate, the MTS should be normalized to untreated cells. (The authors claim that they have already shown cell death by H 2 O 2 in another paper. This is actually irrelevant for this point, as the control is not chosen correcty and the claim of proliferation is not substantiated by the data.) As this effect of LSF is an important claim of the paper, I also suggest perform additional experiments to investigate whether it is a protection from cell death or an increase proliferation that is induced by LSF. Figures It is not clear in the figures 4 and 5 if “untreated” means untreated cells or cells treated with H 2 O 2 only. This needs to be clarified. In Figure 2 and 4, please give an explanation for the abbreviations used in the legend. Discussion I would strongly suggest concentrating the discussion on the findings of the study. E.g., drusen are not really a topic of this study. Also, the authors should discuss the limitation of their model. ARPE-19 cells model aspects of RPE cells. Please elaborate whether ARPE-19 are similar to RPE cells in regard to lipids. 