This is a followup data release and analysis by the MinION Analysis and Reference Consortium (MARC) to the Phase 1 release by Ip et al. in 2015 ( https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1075/v1 ), who compared the consistency, rate, volume and quality of E. coli K-12 data produced by 5 labs from 2 R7.3 flow cell runs each. In this Phase 2 data release and analysis, the MARC characterized the throughput, read quality, and accuracy of one run each of 1D and 2D library preps of R9.0 chemistry. Aside from a fundamental issue with this study that it would have been nice to have data from more than 2 labs, and more than 1 flowcell run of each 1D and 2D (only 4 total flowcells were used in this study), there were several really nice features: Great idea to compare! "Sequencing was performed using both the 2-dimensional (“2D”) “ligation” kit and the newer 1D “rapid” kit." Excellent, thank you for providing these data! "It is a resource to aid further developments in nanopore informatics as well as the development of biological applications using the MinION." Cool! "overall, the R9.0 chemistry showed an increase in data yield and read length when compared with a typical Phase 1 R7.3 experiment" A few criticisms and questions - Would have liked more robust comparison and discussion on differences between 2D and 1D sequencing since the consensus in the community seems to be now that 1D sequencing libraries are fine (nobody uses 2D anymore). "The higher total error of 15.3% for “pass” template base-calls, compared with 7.5% for “pass” 2D base-calls (Table 4), is an acceptable trade off." ENA accessions could be more clear, such as Table S10 from MARC Phase 1 paper (Ip et al. 2015). * These data are clearly generated by experts (some of whom are long-term experts and paid consultants supported by ONT), with available pore numbers and sequencing yields representing best case scenarios. While perhaps beyond the scope of this benchmark, it would be nice to see similar data comparisons by novice labs trying to figure this technology out. Why are 1D and 2D library preparation modifications made in this study not part of standard ONT protocols? What was reasoning behind making these changes? One of the hardest parts of figuring out ONT is troubleshooting the little modifications like the ones mentioned in this study. Modifications indicated in the manuscript: genomic DNA was sheared to ~10 kb and 0.4x AMPureXP cleanup treatment. And 1D: 0.4x AMPureXP cleanup prior to prep, unsheared DNA input of 400ng, 0.4ul blunt/TA ligase; 10 min incubation used in final step. This might be obvious, but I'm not sure: why was the lambda control DNA not included in the 1D runs? Why does the % of active pores decrease from g1 to g2? It is difficult to compare the percentage of active pores between flowcells since, as the manuscript states, the computer from Lab7 crashed in the middle of the experiment and these numbers were not available. And there were only 4 flowcells used in this study. What are some of the reasons why the number of active pores fluctuates between flow cells? Were these spot on flowcells? This feature was added recently sometime after R9.0 was released, and I am curious what effect this had on sequencing yield. Perhaps include data analyses software versions? "we computed alignments and error-rate measurements using BWA-MEM and LAST, followed by re-alignment using marginAlign. Real-time evaluation of the runs was performed by minoTour (more information available from: http://minotour.github.io/minoTour ), run locally at the two experimental laboratories. The “pass” and “fail” reads from each experiment were evaluated with NanoOK (version 0.95) using bwa alignments. Additional metrics and analyses were performed with bespoke Python and R scripts, (available at https://github.com/camilla-ip/marcp2) . 