The authors present a very interesting molecular dynamics study on ligand migration within and escape from the dimeric wild-type Scapharca inaequivalvis HbI and various mutants. The study suggests that multiple ligand exit pathways co-exist and that the histidine gate does not serve as an important escape route in the simulations. Interestingly, very similar conclusions were drawn by Cohen et al . (ref. 27), who studied ligand escape from myoglobin by molecular dynamics and also found a large number of exit routes. Experimentally, there is no direct evidence identifying the entry/exit portal for ligands into Mb or other globins. Perutz and Matthews (1966) speculated early on that rotation of the distal histidine side chain could form a channel between the heme pocket and the solvent. Later on, crystal structures of Mb with bulky ligands bound to the heme iron showed that an exit channel can be pried open by these ligands ( Ringe et al ., 1984 ; Johnson et al ., 1989 ). However, there are also reports arguing in favor of multiple pathways, including a high-throughput flash photolysis experiment on more than 1,500 Mb variants ( Huang and Boxer, 1994 ). The strongest experimental evidence of ligand entry and escape via the histidine gate presently comes from a time-resolved x-ray crystallography study on the L29W myoglobin mutant ( Schmidt et al ., 2005 ). In the mutant, ligands that became trapped in the Xe1 cavity could only escape from this cavity upon rare fluctuations of the W29 side chain that opened the path into the distal pocket. The enormously long residence time in Xe1 clearly proved that the CO in L29W had no alternative pathway available to leave the Xe1 cavity, at least on time scales relevant for the ligand binding reaction. Flash photolysis experiments on CO-ligated wild-type Scapharca inaequivalvis HbI and various mutants and dioxygen equilibrium binding studies suggested that the histidine gate mechanism may hold also for this dimeric protein ( Nienhaus et al. , 2007 ). In the experiment, the internal cavities served as transient docking sites, as also seen in the simulations, but were not way stations on the exit route. Notably, in the H69L mutant and especially the H69V-I114M double mutant, the fraction of ligands that rebound geminately was significantly enhanced and bimolecular rebinding was very fast. Therefore, for me as an experimentalist, these mutants seem to be very promising candidates for additional ligand dynamics simulations because I would expect pronounced differences compared to the wt protein. I suggest to include these simulations in the present manuscript and to extend the discussion section to provide a more detailed view on the histidine gate problematics.