Two groups of 3 calves were maintained under either normoxic or hypoxic conditions. The goal was to determine if hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension would be associated with increased intestinal permeability. After 14 days the hypoxia calves had reduced arterial pO 2 and elevated pulmonary arterial pressure, but not increased intestinal permeability. During the study 2 of the normoxic calves developed “bloody scours” which compromised their use as controls for intestinal permeability. Evaluation of the data from the normoxic control calves provided preliminary evidence that intestinal inflammation may contribute to the development pulmonary diseases. The pulmonary disease is assumed to be manifested as elevated pulmonary arterial pressure, diffuse alveolar damage, and pulmonary vascular remodeling (medial hypertrophy and adventitial hyperplasia). The data supporting the pulmonary arterial pressure change seems clear. However, the evidence for diffuse alveolar damage and pulmonary vascular remodeling is less clear. The gross image of the lung of calf 2 does have the features consistent with interstitial pneumonia. But evidence of diffuse alveolar damage is equivocal in the microscopic images provided. Thickening of alveolar walls and hyaline membranes are not present. Changes indicative of pulmonary vascular remodeling are also equivocal. The basis of this discrepancy is unclear but may be due to variations in sampling locations. With regards to the fixation of lung tissue, the route of the fixative perfusion should be indicated. Evidence for intestinal inflammation seems to be based solely on the observation of bloody scours, a term used in the title of the paper. This implies grossly evident blood in the feces. As stated in the methods, the first indication of the intestinal problem was the presence of occult blood. Were the investigators testing for occult blood on a regular basis? Later, after the initiation of treatment, it is stated that fecal shedding of blood stopped and the feces returned to normal color and consistency. How frequently was there overt blood in the feces? How severe was the diarrhea. The intestinal disease was assumed to be coccidiosis. Other diagnostic tests and histopathology on the intestine would have been helpful in assessing the nature of the inflammation. It seems to me that it would be beneficial to emphasize the original goal of this study, ie to test the hypothesis that hypoxia–induced pulmonary hypertension would be associated with increased intestinal permeability. There is good evidence that this prediction failed. The intestinal permeability was unaltered even though the calves had decreased pO 2 and increased pulmonary arterial pressure. The rejection of the hypothesis appears to be valid even though the controls were compromised. They were not needed. The present title of the paper directs attention to an ad hoc aspect of the study. Since the bloody scours in the control group was unanticipated, collection of a robust data set was difficult for fully investigating the relationship between the pneumonia and enteritis. To the extent that more data could be available, this part of the study could be improved. Refocusing the paper on the hypothesis would emphasize that the original question was answered, but still allow presentation of findings observed and implications raised in the control calves. 