This is a comprehensive review of the most prominent and widely discussed biological effects of nicotine that could be relevant for users of new nicotine products, in particular, electronic cigarettes and tobacco heating systems. The article is well balanced, covering the relevant literature, and urgently needed to distinguish the effects of nicotine from the well established detrimental effects of tobacco smoke. I highly recommend the indexing of the paper, but the authors may wish to address the following points to further increase the impact of their work. General Press releases on publications describing potential consequences of vaping, with or without nicotine, tend to confuse media representatives, policymakers and the public by mixing up human data from clinical studies with results from rodents exposed to vapor and in vitro data. I appreciate the authors' efforts to clearly distinguish between these categories, which differ largely in their relevance for consumers. Although the current paper describes the discrepancies between animal and human studies on several occasions, I missed a few paragraphs explicitly discussing the striking lack of translation of rodent results to humans with respect to the biology of nicotine. Such cautionary notes may help to prevent the widespread over interpretation of experimental results that are irrelevant for human consumers. While the harmful effects of nicotine are comprehensively discussed, the authors do not even mention potential beneficial effects, such as protection from the development of inflammatory brain diseases and ulcerative colitis as well as improvement of cognitive funtions and AD(H)S. Although controversial, these benefits of nicotine appear to be better documented than some of the harms that are extensively described in the article. Specific Points Acute nicotine toxicity The authors should provide the suggested value of the revised lethal oral nicotine dose for adults (0.5 - 1g; ref. Mayer (2014) 1 ). In the paragraph on the toxicity of patches, it is stated "although not ingested". This is misleading because the dermal bioavailability of nicotine is much higher than oral. It should be mentioned that the number of calls counted by poison centers does not necessarily reflect the number of incidences of real poisoning. I suggest providing the numbers concerning toilet cleaners (or varenicline) for comparison. Cardiovascular effects The cardiovascular effects of nicotine may be partially due to noradrenaline release from sympathetic nerve terminals (as illustrated in Fig. 1), but activation of nicotinic receptors expressed in vegetative ganglia should also be mentioned. There is no compelling evidence for an increased blood pressure of smokers (statement on p. 5, left panel, 2nd paragraph). Most epidemiological studies indicate either no difference or lower blood pressure of smokers as compared to non-smokers. For relatively recent studies see e.g.: Akbarour et al . (2019) 2 ; Li et al . (2017) 3 ; Papathanasiou et al . (2015) 4 ; Linneberg et al . (2015) 5 ; Li et al . (2010) 6 . The part on endothelial function should be updated by including two very recent studies on the effects of vaping with nicotine on flow-mediated dilation. While Kuntic et al . (2019) 7 reported on acute endothelial dysfunction of smokers 15 minutes after vaping, George et al . (2019) 8 observed significant improvement of FMD within one month of switching from smoking to electronic cigarettes. 