First of all I want to thank Abidullah Khan (Pakistan) for his punctual answers, and in the same way I take this opportunity to applaud his openness to academic debate. I want to add the following: This point was appropriately addressed. This point was appropriately addressed. This point was appropriately addressed. However, I am not sure if we are falling into a conflict of interest by including an article written by the reviewer under the suggestion of the same reviewer. If possible, I would like to leave this decision to another reviewer in order to avoid any conflict of interest. This point was appropriately addressed. Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). This point was appropriately addressed. I agree with your proposal, so lets leave them in two separate tables. The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. This point was appropriately addressed. I do not know if you are close to the word limit. If this is not the case, perhaps it would also be worth mentioning the studies in adults 2 that yielded results similar to the study in patients with juvenile lupus 3 . This point was appropriately addressed. An additional final comment: 12.The following lines in the Discussion seem particularly bold to me, perhaps it would be worth rephrasing them: a) "Thus, it can be argued that, as an indicator of disease activity in patients with SLE, MPV was as effective as both ESR and SLEDAI-2000". b) "Therefore, we recommend MPV as a global marker of disease activity in patients with SLE". References 1. Lew RA, Liang MH, Doros G: Statistical considerations for stopping systemic lupus erythematosus clinical trials earlier. Arthritis Res Ther . 2015; 17 : 345 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Sarkar RN, Bhattacharya K, Banerjee M: Mean platelet volume as an indicator of disease activity in systemic lupus erythematosus. J Assoc Physicians India . 2016; 64 (1): 68-69 PubMed Abstract 3. Yavuz S, Ece A: Mean platelet volume as an indicator of disease activity in juvenile SLE. Clin Rheumatol . 2014; 33 (5): 637-41 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: Last year our team published an article on this same topic (Rev Bras Reumatol. 2016 Nov-Dec;56[6]:504-8). No financial competing interests. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Delgado-García G. Reviewer Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11885.r20506 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v2#referee-response-20506 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Author Response 16 Mar 2017 Abidullah Khan , Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan 16 Mar 2017 Author Response Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. ... Continue reading Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. 5: Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). Reply: This has been amended as advised. 8: The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. Reply: Spearman's rho has been used to assess any relationship of MPV and ESR with SLEDAI. However, the relation of MPV with ESR has been assessed through Pearson's correlation test. 10: The Indian study has now been referred to. The study by Yavuz S et al had already been cited. Additional comments: The final two sentences pointed to (a and b), have been rephrased. I hope it works this time. Thanks again. Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. 5: Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). Reply: This has been amended as advised. 8: The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. Reply: Spearman's rho has been used to assess any relationship of MPV and ESR with SLEDAI. However, the relation of MPV with ESR has been assessed through Pearson's correlation test. 10: The Indian study has now been referred to. The study by Yavuz S et al had already been cited. Additional comments: The final two sentences pointed to (a and b), have been rephrased. I hope it works this time. Thanks again. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENTS ON THIS REPORT Author Response 16 Mar 2017 Abidullah Khan , Khyber Teaching Hospital, Peshawar, Pakistan 16 Mar 2017 Author Response Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. ... Continue reading Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. 5: Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). Reply: This has been amended as advised. 8: The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. Reply: Spearman's rho has been used to assess any relationship of MPV and ESR with SLEDAI. However, the relation of MPV with ESR has been assessed through Pearson's correlation test. 10: The Indian study has now been referred to. The study by Yavuz S et al had already been cited. Additional comments: The final two sentences pointed to (a and b), have been rephrased. I hope it works this time. Thanks again. Thank you again very much for your precious time and tremendous energy in revisiting our manuscript critically. We have made the following changes in response to your remaining invaluable reservations. 5: Taking into account that you also used a formula to determine the appropriate sample size for detecting a difference between the means of two samples, I think it would be good to cite the previous report on which this calculation was based (i.e., the article from where you got the values to make your sample size estimation). Likewise, I think it would be good to know how much is "more than 0.8" (power). Reply: This has been amended as advised. 8: The final SLEDAI score is an ordinal variable 1 , so I consider that it would be more appropriate to evaluate the correlation between this variable and MPV using Spearman's rho. Reply: Spearman's rho has been used to assess any relationship of MPV and ESR with SLEDAI. However, the relation of MPV with ESR has been assessed through Pearson's correlation test. 10: The Indian study has now been referred to. The study by Yavuz S et al had already been cited. Additional comments: The final two sentences pointed to (a and b), have been rephrased. I hope it works this time. Thanks again. Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. Close Report a concern COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 10 Feb 2017 Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Dima A. Reviewer Report For: Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) as an indicator of disease activity and severity in lupus [version 3; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2017, 6 :126 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11605.r20320 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/6-126/v1#referee-response-20320 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 17 Feb 2017 Alina Dima , Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.11605.r20320 Title : I don’t find the term “monitoring” appropriate as it is presented a cross-sectional study with only one MPV determination and I so think that the use of assessment or determination could be tried. Also ... Continue reading READ ALL 