In the manuscript entitled “Cardiovascular involvement and manifestations of systemic Chikungunya virus infection: A systematic review” authors have made a hard and interesting description of the cardiovascular effect by chikungunya virus infection. This analysis would be important to share with the scientific community; however it is necessary major changes in order to be ready for publication. Mainly, focus in the specific topic and put in order and properly the information in the paper. General comments: Objective: It s not clear, author start assessing that the objective focus among cardiovascular involvement and manifestation, however, other systemic manifestation or atypical manifestation also become relevant in the results section. Methodology The main objective of systematic reviews is to respond to a specific question. Initially authors seem to do that pointing on cardiovascular involvement, but then, when they write the introduction and results section, this main point seem to disappear or is not clear for the reader. However, in the discussion section, authors re-take the objectives again. Certainly, the big amount of information given in the introduction section and talking about the virus, history, classification, vector and cycles is very interesting, but it is not the purpose of this study. I suggest them shortening it and focussing on the cardiovascular involvement and complications. I also recommend displaying a flow (figure) of how papers were excluded and included. What guideline do the authors follow up in order to assess the risk of bias (PRISMA or Cochrane? It is possible you follow PRISMA approach (For example: http://prisma-statement.org/PRISMAStatement/Checklist.aspx ). Please give this information explaining the steps. In the Methods section, the next key word “Chikungunya AND Systemic AND Manifestation” used by authors has probably given them no specific references or papers. Instead of that, why do not they also use specific “key words” such as: “Chikungunya AND cardiac involvement” “Chikungunya AND cardiac complication” or “Chikungunya AND cardiovascular involvement” “Chikungunya AND cardiovascular complications” or Chikungunya AND Atypical manifestation/complications“. The idea is to be more specific and less general. According to the authors, the protocol was registered in PROSPERO; however it was not possible to view the registered protocol in the web (https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/searchadvanced.php). I wonder if the inclusion of reviews may cause a bias. Please clarify and if it is true, consider in the “limitations section”. Results Authors use “cardiac affectation” and also “cardiovascular compromise”. I recommend to standardize the term in order to avoid creating confusion for the reader. Authors describe with detail the clinical features during the acute, post-acute and chronic stage of CHIKV infection. I recommend shortening and focusing on the topic. In “Atypical presentation” section, authors shows systemic manifestation considering the affectation in different organs such as neurological, cardiovascular, etc. Why did not the authors use also the key word “atypical” rather than “systemic manifestation” or “extra-articular” in the searching strategy and also in the analyses? It is confusing. In Table 2, the word “Systemic extra-articular involvement of atypical CHIKV” shows clinical manifestation, however, we do not know more information about “who (co-morbidities? Older? Young?)”, “how many”(number/percentage), type of paper(case report, case control, etc), etc. Are these clinical manifestations in outpatients or inpatients? Are these early clinical features or complications? So there are many questions around this information that would be useful in order to form a correct interpretation. In Table 3, it is important to consider more information about the selected papers. I recommend a big table showing the different cardiovascular involvement/complication, for example: 1. the clinical diagnoses (heart failure, acute coronary syndrome, refractory shock, and rhythm abnormalities), relevant signs and symptoms, especially early signs/symptoms (chest pain, dyspnea, bradycardia, etc), laboratory diagnose (Troponin, BNP, CK-MB, etc), Imaging studies (echocardiography, Magnetic resonance), final diagnose (Myocarditis?), Management (inotropics, corticosteroid, etc) and outcome (survive, died). I consider, this data would be important to understand the impact of cardiovascular involvement due to CHIKV. In dengue, now it is known that more about the cardiovascular involvement is mostly characterized by rhythm abnormalities (bradycardia) with no symptoms or complications. However, in moderate or severe cases where there was a cardiovascular affectation or complication, myocarditis has been an important cause. Myocarditis due to DENV infection may present several patterns such as “refractory shock”, “heart failure”, “arrhythmia”, etc and It would be important to consider this diagnose. In the comparison with CHIKV infection and cardiac involvement, myocarditis, should be discussed. It is not clear what do authors try to assess when they say: “The cardiac tropism of CHIKV seem to be shared with DENV”, it is important to clarify. Diagnose myocarditis by those arbovirus, need to consider a myocardial biopsy or a cardiac magnetic resonance, however performing these in tropical areas where these arbovirus are prevalent, is very hard. The management of myocarditis, whatever is the etiology, focus in the management of the agent (virus, bacteria, etc); management of the cardiovascular event (heart failure, cardiognico shock, arrhythmia, etc) and the management of the inflammatory process. The last, is under discussion and needs more research, although in some severe cases by DENV, the corticosteroids administration changed the evolution. Discussion Authors say, “The key for a successful outcome of CHIKV-induced cardiomyopathy is recognizing signs and symptoms”. Here I recommend repeating the most important ones. Limitations This section would consider some of the bias common to this kind of study where there is no clinical trials included and where “case reports” were including. Bias such as “selection” or “publication” bias, etc. 