In Paramecium as well as other ciliates, massive genome re-arrangements in form of elimination of thousands of transposon derived IES sequences occur after sexual fertilization. Some of these excision events have been described to be controlled by small RNAs acting in a genome comparison mechanism. Swart and colleagues compared IES retention and OES retention in F1 progeny after dsRNA induced knockdown of genes involved in these genome re-arrangements and aimed to classify functional relationship of genes by similarity of the individual IES/OES retention. They show that RNA associated and chromatin associated genes form individual groups. In addition, useful information is provided by the de novo assembly of eliminated sequences apart of IESs. The paper represents an interesting analysis providing useful tools and solid data for future research applications. Major points: Although the described method to classify IES retention after silencing of different genes is innovative, the paper is a balancing act between methods and research paper. In its current shape, the conclusions drawn and the main results of this paper are of biological significance pushing the methodological aspect into the background. Right now, the paper is more a research paper. The authors need to decide for a strategy. Minor Points: The identification of the functional groups of Dcl2/3/5, TFIIS4, NowaX and Ezl1, PtCAF also reflects the expression behavior of these enzymes during development (with the summary of Dcl2/3 early - Dcl5 late). As it makes sense at first glance that cooperating enzymes need to become induced at the same time, the authors should also discuss whether the dsRNA feeding efficiency could be different in early and late stages of development. In Table 2, the induction time points differ for some enzymes to the microarray data in ParameciumDB described in Arnaiz et al. 2010. For instance, TFIIS4 is indicated to be expressed late in Table 2 but according to Maliszewska-Olejniczak et al. 2015 and ParameciumDB, this gene is induced early during autogamy. As most of the analyses here relies on the calculation of IES retention scores, please give a more precise description of their definition in the text, as this term could be new for readers outside the field. Maybe also give more information in Methods, which reads are counted that map to an IES junction or to IES, in particular those, which only partially overlap to the IES. Also, are there any cutoffs set at any time of calculation? In Methods: IES and OES retention score regressions: It's nice to see the effort put in creating different kinds of regression. However, in the paper, authors do not address about regression in the text (Also, not in Supp. Fig. S1). They only focus on the correlation co-efficient and the IES retention score distributions. Introduction: asexual reproduction would be cell division in paramecia which is not autogamy or conjugation In Methods: Estimation of OES retention section, the first sentence is too long and difficult to follow. Kindly rephrase it. Authors do not explain how exactly OES scores are obtained. I'm looking for how the authors mapped the 3882 OESs with variable boundaries (obtained from the 5236 scaffolds in the new assembly) to the already available 697 scaffolds (in MAC+IES assembly). In Results: Examination of basic IES retention properties (last paragraph) Shouldn't it be Figure 2G-J. Figure 2: In the legend H should be replaced with J. Also in the sentence "(G–H) Mean base frequencies of positions 1-3 after the TA repeat relative are plotted relative to IES retention score" there seems to be a typographical error with the use of the word relative. And, for G-J, along the Y-axis it would be nice to say "Bases after TA repeat" along the Y-axis for the base frequency plots. Discussion: The idea that….This sentence is too long. Authors say they have attempted to produce a better assembly. It would be helpful to provide this assembly. For readers not used to Paramecium Mac development, the different classifications of IESs into epigenetic/not epigenetic, scnRNA dependent/non scnRNA dependent, long/short etc. can be confusing. Together with the classification of the genetic requirements, is it possible to sum the discussion up in kind of a venn diagram to compare IES properties and genetic requirements for excision? As a suggestion… 