The MS by Kosach et al. describes an interesting phenomenon, nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of S6K1 in MCF-7 cells. The authors established a relationship between MCF-7 monolayer density and subcellular localization of the kinase. The work is worthy of publication, but the MS should be significantly shortened as is contains some redundant information and speculations. Proofreading by a native English-speaker is also recommended. Major point: The putative phosphorylation of TBR2 by S6K1 is too speculative and not convincing to use it as one of the major conclusions of the papers. It should be either confirmed experimentally or removed from the abstract and the main results of the paper. Minor points: Material and Methods: p4 Please remove “if you are interested in obtaining this antibody, please contact the corresponding author“; p4 The anti-ERG and anti-CDX antibodies are not used in the main Figures. Please move information about these antibodies form the Materials and Methods section to legends of the supplementary figures; Results and discussion: P5 Please remove the first paragraph or move it to the introduction section. P5 “For the first step of the present study” is redundant Figure 1,5 legend. Please replace “positive reaction” with “staining” P6 The following phrase is unclear: “Since cell spreading can be considered as a stage of migration, the previous data led to the hypothesis…” Figure 6. It is unclear whether the images represent confocal sections or reconstituted 3D images. Colocalization of S6K1 and TBR2 should be analyzed quantitatively, eg using ImageJ tools for colocalization analysis. It is also unclear whether TBR2 shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm similarly to S6K1. P9. S6K1 is a serine threonine kinase and the putative phosphorylation of TBR2 by S6K1 should concern threonines rather than tyrosines. I also propose to remove the bioinformatic part and the Figure 8 as they are too speculative. Indeed, many other kinases may potentially phosphorylate TBR2 basing on the bioinformatic analysis, and the authors did not even show whether TBR2 is indeed phosphorylated. Figure 7. TBR2 has a molecular weight of 84 kDa of TBR2, but the major band has a lower molecular weight. This should be explained in the Results section. 