In the article "Density artefacts at interfaces caused by multiple time-step effects in molecular dynamics simulations" by Sidler et al., the authors investigate the possible artefacts introduced by multiple time-step (MTS) integration methods for molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with respect to the local density and diffusivity at simulated interfaces between polar and apolar media. The simulated systems include chloroform-water and cyclohexane-water mixtures, both arranged in either planar-layer or droplet conformations. For all simulated systems, the authors report artificial density increases at the interface of the two liquids, whereby the degree of the observed effect depends on the MTS algorithm used. The density artefacts are studied mainly in the NVT ensemble, but are shown to also appear in the NPT ensemble. Moreover, some of the investigated thermostats introduce a shift in the distribution of kinetic energies in the water component. Based on these findings, the authors recommend the usage of the single-range treatment of the non-bonded interactions with lower pairlist update frequencies, which are less sensitive with respect to the discussed artefacts as compared to the widely used twin-range schemes. The study makes a valuable contribution towards the improvement of the existing MD methods when it comes to both accuracy and computational performance. The observed artefacts are certainly pronounced and cannot be ignored. On the other hand, certain aspects of the study lack the necessary explanations or depth of exploration and thus have to be improved accordingly. Major comments The length of individual simulations is relatively short by state-of-the-art standards. This, of course, is not a major issue if the phenomena at hand converge comparatively quickly, as indeed implied by the authors. However, for completeness, the convergence should be quantitatively demonstrated. For all NVT simulations, the authors should perform preliminary runs of several 100 ps in the NPT ensemble for density equilibration, as well as several 100 ps of equilibration in the studied ensemble before the production runs. The overall density in the present NVT simulations is determined by the authors in the course of the setup of the simulation boxes. It is conceivable that the ideal simulated density would vary with respect to the integration method, time-step or thermostating method. As a consequence, some simulated NVT systems could exhibit too-low or too-high overall density, which on its own could introduce or at least influence some of the observed artefacts. The microscopic origin(s) of the density artefacts should be investigated in greater detail. In particular, an in-depth investigation of the molecular structure at the interfaces would be instructive. For example, are the relative orientations of the chloroform/cyclohexane molecules in the areas of higher density different from those in the bulk? How about water? If so, how can this be related to the algorithmic differences? This analysis should, inter alia , involve a decomposition of density profiles into chloroform (or cyclohexane) and water components, but also more elaborate structural analyses (for an example of such analysis, please refer to 1 ). The density profiles in Figure 2 exhibit curious short-range fluctuation patterns, which even appear somewhat periodic. The authors should analyze the origin of these patterns and potentially link them with the main analysis at hand. The authors should analyze and comment more extensively on the asymmetric appearance of the TR-CFA-WC and TR-CFA-NH density profiles in Figure 3 with respect to the planar layers at high values of the pairlist update period. They comment that the asymmetry may be due to insufficient sampling, but given how extensive and relevant for the central argument of the paper it may be, it should be analyzed in more detail. In an ideal case (i.e. if largely symmetric) the density profiles could be averaged over the two sides for greater statistical power. Minor comments The CFA and RESPA approaches need to be explained in greater detail in the introduction. This seems especially important since RESPA seems to be much less prone to density artefacts than CFA. The colors are referenced wrong in the caption of Figure 4. The caption of Figure 3 contains an "n" without an index. The authors should explicitly describe how the density was calculated even for planar systems (bin size, averaging volume etc.). While the advantages of updating the Pairlist less frequently are clearly illustrated, in the conclusions section the authors should also discuss in more detail the potential downsides of such a procedure. 