The manuscript ‘The dynamic side of the Warburg effect: glycolytic intermediates as buffer for fluctuating glucose and O2 supply in tumor cells’ presents a coarse-grained kinetic model of glycolysis. The model, despite being extremely simplified, is able to reproduce several experimental datasets in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells after parameter calibration. The author then applies this model to predict dynamic behaviors of tumor cells under fluctuating blood flow. I like the idea of using simplified models to interpret complex biological phenomena but would like to see more discussions about the rationale of using this model instead of other models with full details of every reaction involved in glycolysis. There is space to improve presentation of the results as well. Specific comments are listed below for the author’s reference. Some important interactions that may affect FBP dynamics are missing in the model. For instance, it is known that FBP is an allosteric activator of pyruvate kinase (Jurica et al 1 ; Christofk et al 2 ). I expect that this feedback will attenuate the FBP buffering mechanism proposed in this study since lower glycolysis (i.e. 'tail' in this model) is activated by high concentration of FBP thus enhancing its consumption. Moreover, the two sections (‘head’ and ‘tail’) of glycolysis are both considered to be irreversible, thus neglecting the effects of thermodynamics on glycolytic flux. This may also lead to overestimation of FBP concentration as well because FBP is not allowed to be converted back to glucose. The main goal of developing this coarse-grained model is not clear to me. Besides the model developed by Chance and Hess, there are numerous mathematical models for glycolysis, most are much more detailed than the model presented in this study. The author claims that this model replaces the model of Chance and Hess – I feel this inappropriate since this statement doesn’t give any credit to all other glycolysis models. Most, if not all, results are presented as curves from the simulation with little information about the take-home messages. It is thus very difficult to read the key findings directly from the figures. For instance, it is my understanding that one of the two most important hypotheses drawn based on the simulation is that cells with high glycolytic capacity (which mimics ‘Warburgian’ cancer cells) consume glucose much more quickly than cells with lower glycolytic capacity after switching from low glucose to high glucose condition, thus being more competitive under conditions with frequent nutrient deprivation. To emphasize this point, I would recommend using one figure directly comparing glucose uptake fluxes in cells with different glycolytic capacities instead of the 10 figure panels currently included in Fig 4. 