This article deals with the adherence of adult patients with CF to the nebulization treatments and more particularly the importance of assessing their adherence in clinic consultations to establish a good diagnosis of the patient’s health (a deterioration might be due to non-adherence to a prescribed treatment or other causes despite good adherence to the treatments) and thus to offer the best treatment strategies to the patient. The purpose of the study is to assess the availability and desirability, for the clinicians involved in CF care in the UK, of objective adherence data from their patients. Five questions were asked through an online questionnaire survey to the UK Adult CF centres. Availability refers to Medical Possession Ratio (MPR - refill data) or I-neb data (a device used to nebulize various treatments) available during the clinic visit. Desirability refers to the value that clinicians place on this data at the point of consultation. Though clinicians place importance on objective adherence data during the clinic visits of the patients, this data is rarely available (only available for about 15% patients) and their provision not a feature of CF care in current clinical practice. The author indicates as a limitation of the study the fact that the response rate to the survey is only 28% of the CF centers (8 centers out of 29). This paper is very clear, the methods is presented in details so it could be replicated in another study, and the results are fully presented. It gives perspectives to improve both the quality of care and the health outcomes of the patients by increasing the availability and use of patient adherence data to nebulized treatments. This would increase the relevance of prescriptions and possibly open up a discussion with the patient about the feasibility of their treatments and routines necessary to sustain care in daily life. May the author consider citing the following paper (6 th position in the reference) as it is an assessment of adherence in CF patients for inhaled therapies in France: Helose Rouz et al. 1 