General Comments: The BioLayout Express 3D is a very useful tool, especially its unique 3D rendering capability. The supports for importing network files in BioPAX level 3 format and integration with Pathway Commons appear to work well as described in the paper. My comments are mainly concerned with network visualization. Navigation in large/dense networks: Users often want to zoom in to a particular node/region of the network to view the connections and structures. It is difficult to achieve this using right-mouse button. A better approach may be to add support for three-wheel mouse point the mouse to the node and then scroll to zoom in to the pointer direction. Enhancing support for node search in a dense network: Users should be able to click to highlight AND zoom in to it. Better scaling control (esp. for 2D view): Users would expect that node overlapping issue would be resolved by zooming in to the region. This is not the case during testing. Rather than simply getting bigger in size, both the sizes and relatives distance between nodes should be scaled properly when users zoom in. If there are some advanced options to achieve this effect, the default parameters should be improved. Bugs (Version 3.3, Mac version) On the 2D view, select and drag a node to a new position, the mouse pointer and the node are not well synchronized during the process. Black screen also occurs sometimes. Additional comments / wish list: In addition to comparing their abilities in supporting BioPAX format, a general discussion on network visualization features of these popular tools will be very useful for new users to make informed choices. The standalone tools have the advantage for dealing with large data. The current tool can be improved with regard to more layout options and better performance for large networks. Given the increasing popularity for web-based visualization, the support for exporting the graph for D3.js rendering is certainly a welcome step. An online version for 3D network visualization (maybe based on WebGL?) will be highly received by the community. 