The article gives a brief overview of the data life cycle in the life sciences and offers an entry point for accessing relevant information about current approaches to increasing compliance with the FAIR data sharing principles at each step of this life cycle. It expressly targets "life science researchers wanting to improve their data management practice" and is labeled as an Opinion article. The article is well written and comfortable to read, and the concise presentation follows a clear structure. While to me as a biomedical data researcher, who may not strictly belong to the target audience, the article provided only little additional insight, I can well see how - as an entry point - the article provides valuable information to its target audience. That said, I believe the article needs clarification and some extension in a few places: The list of authors is quite extensive. Please clarify the roles of the authors in conception/conduction/preparation of the manuscript. How exactly does the proposed data life cycle differ from related (cited) suggestions, and why? How is it 'aimed at life science researchers specifically'? (Introduction) The tabular overviews of existing resources are a nice asset but they are, of course, not exhaustive. Please clarify how the selections of databases/registries, tools, ontologies etc were made for inclusion in the article - and possibly state where to find more complete lists of resources for the life sciences. The integrating step of the life cycle has no description in the article - even though this is a very intricate step that often has great influence when collecting data (e.g., the choice of ontologies to use for describing collected data and metadata will often depend on the ontologies used in re-used (found) data), and, even more, is at the core of making datasets interoperable, i.e., making them integratable with newly collected data. In the processing step, you make no mention of Scientific Workflows as a means of integrating, processing, and analyzing data. Your first reference (currently cited in a rather different context) would provide a very good hook for this thriving topic that is all about sharing, reproducibility, and reusability of data processing and analysis methods. On the same lines, containerized computing (e.g., Docker) is only very briefly metioned. Even more than with data, using technologies such as these is crucial for ensuring reproducibility over longer periods of time (when software versions of dependencies have changed, web-services have become unavailable, and so forth). The section "What can the research community do to encourage best practice?" gives a rather remote, high level view that addresses several different institutional entities - except for the individual researcher within the target audience who actually has to follow the discussed best practices to enable the data life cycle. Additionally, here are some suggestions for increasing the usefulness and potential impact of the article within the current target audience, and possibly beyond: Important interdependecies between the different steps of the life cycle could be mentioned. For instance, the choice of which ontologies to use for metadata and data in the collection step will necessarily be influenced by a) the ontologies used in the data found in public repositiories and reused in the current experiment, b) the ontologies mandated by the repositories the data product is to be published in, and c) the ontologies required and used by the (third party, reused) software applied in the processing of the data. These interdependencies often not only put a limit to the choices available regarding the ontologies to be used but also raise a barrier when conversion and mapping between different ontologies is necessary between steps in the life cycle. The topic of data privacy is only very briefly touched but fundamental when it comes to sharing and publishing data. It may be out of scope of this article, but a slightly more thorough discussion of the issue would to its importance more justice, I feel. An additional figure that maps the best practices enumerated in the text to the rather coarse life cycle shown in Figure 1 could prove highly instructive. Something like a 'data life cycle best practices cheat sheet' ;) If you (the authors) have any questions regarding this review, please do not hesitate to contact me. 