The manuscript addresses a timely topic and is part of an effort to understand the multitarget activities of small molecules and their potential utility or drawbacks for drug discovery. Using the MMs formalism, the authors developed a protocol to identify analog series with high hit rates. The MMs approach responds to the need to generate SAR information of interference compounds. This approach allows for more reliable evaluation compared to the analysis of individual compounds. The analogue series identified with data from PubChem should be useful for medicinal chemistry programs. Similarly, the protocol developed in this work using MMPs should be useful to mine other large screening data sources (either public or proprietary data sets). Minor suggestions to further improve the quality of the manuscript: Comment on the manuscript the effect of the compound concentration that is used to define a “hit” compound in a given assay. In other words, since it is unlikely that the same compound concentration is used across all assays, how this variable influences the “hit rates” and conclusions of the study? The current analysis is made based primarily in primary assays in PubChem. In the Methods authors justify that there are larger data volumes for primary assays. We agree but would be nice to see in the manuscript a comment regarding the balance between volume vs. quality of the data. We found it very pertinent that the study focused on compounds with high rates in primary assays, since more than 90% of these compounds are also active in confirmatory trials. It is interesting to comment how the hit rate is related to the quality of the data. An earlier study 1 mentions that the assay frequency is not correlated with increased promiscuity. It is desirable to include a commentary in the manuscript when discussing the frequency of the test distribution and the generation of the first subset of 327,532 compounds. Three parameters for the characterization and comparison of MMSs were determined (hit rate (HR), assay overlap, assays with inconsistent activity). Does the MMS size affect these determinations? Other suggestions (per section): Introduction, last paragraph: briefly summarize the major findings of previous works related to this study (e.g., refs. 18, 19, 23) and emphasize the novelty of this work. Shorten the title (and include the concept of MMPs). In the Introduction (last paragraph), include figure numbers for expressions such as “extensively”, “larger’, “many”, “much higher”. For instance, when the authors mention “extensively tested” in the title and through the manuscript, they mean “10,000”, “100,000”, “400,000”, etc. Methods: elaborate a bit more on the in-house scripts, e.g., the program language. 