This is an interesting report on the management of quality improvement teams by a large donor aid organisation. The focus is on what it takes to set up a successful programme at scale. This is one of the logistical issues to be addressed in any programme. The construct that is offered could be adapted at any level - it could be scaled down as well as scaled up. The framework is useful, and the authors provide a good rationale and explanation of the way to set up the programme. This would need to be tested. The question of successful implementation of projects over time is a reference to generalizability. It would be interesting if this is now being tested in a prospective way. Much of what is concluded is not essentially new; what is new is the theory in the context of spread and scale up. A few questions need to be answered going forward: Do they now use this framework when they start a new programme? Do they use the framework as a continual real time assessment of the implementation of a programme, or is it a theoretical construct? The paper does not provide outcome measures - how do they measure the success of the framework? Is there a measurement plan going forward to evaluate the framework? An overview of the outcomes of their programmes would assist in demonstrating how this works. I am sure that there is a range of success and perhaps they could analyse their programmes against the framework linked to programme outcomes. One also needs to consider the issue of sustainability. The authors state that “Improvement teams must have both the technical and leadership capability to carry out and sustain improvements to improve healthcare outcomes. To manage these improvement teams, we have developed a management structure with a ‘culture’ of quality, engagement, and empowerment”. They imply that this will result in sustainable change. It is a laudable aim, but one needs data to support the presumption of sustainability. One can assess this by looking at the differences between those who have followed this framework and those who have not and what happens when the programmes end. One needs to report on whether a difference in sustainability of programmes is there between those who followed this framework and those that did not to determine the outcomes long term, especially after aid and technical support is withdrawn and support has stopped. Experience in UIC is that there is a fall-off once technical support is withdrawn. Finally, the word ‘patient’ appears only twice in the paper. I think that it may be implied that partnerships include partnerships with patients. Unfortunately, this is not stated, and I wonder whether another dimension to consider in addition to partnerships with people who deliver and plan care, would be partnerships with patients and families in the improvement process. I add a recent review on spread from The Health Foundation which they could consider (Horton et al. , 2018 1 ). 