 Page 3: Methods: Extraction: Statement: “Fresh samples were crushed in a blender in methanol, dichloromethane and dichloromethane methanol (1:1) then macerated for 24 hours. The samples were filtered and the residue then was re-extracted for two times. The total filtrate was then evaporated to obtain crude extract paste.” Questions: What is used to filter the extract? What is used to evaporate? What degree of temperature is used to evaporate? What is the type of the tool? Statement: “The cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10% FBS, 2% penicillin streptomycin and 0.5% Fungi zone. Cells were harvested after reaching 80% confluence using 0.25% Trypsin-EDTA. Cells were cultured in 96-well micro plates (1 103 cells/well) in 100 μL RPMI and incubated at 37C with 5% CO2 overnight”. Suggestion: It's better to explain what DMSO, MTT, etc., stand for. Page 4: Results : Figure 1. Breast cancer T47D cell viability after treatment with extracts of Ancorina sp. Methanol (M), Dichloromethane: Methanol (D:M) and Dichloromethane (D). Questions: What is the unit of the cell viability? The log concentration (?). Add the scaling line next to the numbers. Page 5: Table 1. IC50 values of Ancorina sp. extracts. Treatments IC50 value (μg/mL) Methanol 84.25a 9.52 Dichloromethane:methanol (1:1) 121.45 b 10.11 Dichloromethane 99.85ab 11.79 Note: different letters showed the significant difference at the 0.05 levels. Questions: How is the IC 50 calculated? Why do dichloromethane (non-polar solvent) and methanol indicate moderate cytotoxicity, while on the other hand, methanol solvent (polar solvent) indicates the highest cytotoxicity? Figure 2. Cell morphology of breast cancer T47D cells after treatment with extracts of Ancorina sp. Control ( A ), Methanol ( B ), Dichloromethane:Methanol ( C ), Dichloromethane ( D ), Doxorubicin ( E ) and DMSO ( F ). Arrow shows dead cells. Questions: What are the morphological differences among the treatments? This needs to be explained. Is it only to show dead and living cells? If this is the case one figure is enough. The figures were taken using what kind of microscope? Add the microscopic scale on the figure. Page 7: Figure 4. Detection of caspase-3 activation in breast cancer T47D cells after treatment with extracts of Ancorina sp. Negative control ( A ), Doxorubicin ( B ), Methanol ( C ), Dichloromethane: Methanol ( D ) and Dichloromethane. Question: What is R1? Page 8 : Figure 5. Correlation between percentage of apoptosis and caspase 3 activation in breast cancer T47D cells after treatment with extracts of Ancorina sp. Doxorubicin (Dox), Methanol (M), Dichloromethane: Methanol (1:1) (D:M), Dichloromethane (D), and negative control (control). Suggestion: The figure is not clear. Add the scaling line next to the numbers. Page 8: Ancorina sp. is a source of bioactive compounds such as ancorinoside A Mg salt, ancorinolates AC, bis-ancorinolate B, ancorinazole, indolo [3,2-a] carbazole, and (+) - 7-bromotryparg. Suggestion: Mention the characteristics of these compounds e.g. the level of their polarity. 