In this manuscript, entitled Temporal order of RNase IIIb and loss-of-function mutations during development determines phenotype in DICER1 syndrome: a unique variant of the two-hit tumor suppression model, Brenneman et al . present a comprehensive, state-of-the-art analysis of the various types of DICER1 mutations seen in patients with pleuropulmonary blastoma and other DICER1 -related tumors. In their tumors, these patients often display a combination of a loss-of-function mutation on one allele of DICER1 and a hotspot RNase IIIb missense mutation on the opposite allele. As the authors show, tumors may acquire DICER1 mutations via germline inheritance, post-zygotic mosaicism, or somatic mutation at the time of tumor formation, and the mutations can be acquired in either order. Importantly, patients can be categorized based on the status of their inherited DICER1 alleles (wild-type, loss-of-function or hotspot missense; and germline or mosaic), and this categorization determines patient phenotype. This is a timely report, given the recent surge of reports implicating DICER1 mutations in human cancers. The authors present a robust clinical and molecular characterization of a large cohort of PPB patients. The work is of high quality and the report is clearly written. The conclusions are largely supported by the data, with some possible exceptions outlined below. The large amount of supplementary data is a particularly valuable resource and serves as a model for studies of this kind. Overall this is a very valuable contribution to the literature on DICER1 -related cancers. The reservations noted center a few remaining areas of ambiguity concerning the molecular model presented by the authors. Title Temporal order of RNase IIIb and loss-of-function mutations during development determines phenotype in DICER1 syndrome: a unique variant of the two-hit tumor suppression model : This study does not appear to investigate DICER1 syndrome per se , but rather PPB. Inclusion criteria was PPB patients (n=124), and this includes 12 patients who were found to have no germline or mosaic DICER1 mutation (Table S8) and another 12 patients who had no detectable DICER1 mutations (Table S9). Introduction PPB is pathognomonic for a childhood cancer syndrome that features a range of other benign and malignant neoplasms including ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor (SLCT), As many of the DICER1 -related cases of SLCT that have been reported occur in patients in their 30s and 40s (See for example Rio Frio et al., 2011 ), it is probable that DICER1 syndrome is not simply a cancer syndrome. Understanding how the interplay of RNase IIIb missense and LOF mutations influences the expression of syndromic neoplasias can aid diagnosis at early stages, when they are most curable. As far as we know there are no data that early diagnosis of DICER1 -syndrome neoplasias (other than, potentially, PPB) is beneficial. In fact, in this manuscript, the patients with mosaic hotspot mutations presented with lower-type PPB (non-sarcomatous) but underwent much more complicated and arduous clinical courses. We propose that the extreme phenotypes of this patient group are attributable to the order in which allelic DICER1 mutations were acquired during development, i.e., an RNase IIIb hotspot missense mutation acquired early in embryogenesis and subsequently unmasked by LOF mutations or loss of the second allele. The authors model (biallelic mutations are fundamental to the development of DICER1 -related tumors, hence the need for a loss/LOF mutation in trans to a hotspot missense mutation) may not be universally true, or may be true for PPB but not other DICER1 -realted tumors. While the frequency of biallelic DICER1 mutations appears to be high in PPB (this study; Pugh et al [Ref.6]; Seki et al [Ref. 35]), this does not appear to be the case in all DICER1 -realted tumors. We previously reported a Wilms tumor patient with a DICER1 hotspot missense mutation and no detected germline mutation, though we did not rule out copy-number loss of the wildype allele ( Rakheja et al., 2014 ). And the TARGET sequencing project reported DICER1 variants in Wilms tumor patients, including two patients who demonstrated non-hotspot germline missense mutations but no mutations on the other allele in their tumors ( Walz et al. , 2015 ). Methods Definition of disease foci : Several of the disease foci in Table 1 are left off this list (e.g., Wilms tumor, juvenile polyps of small intestine, ciliary body medullopeithelioma). Was this list dynamically expanded during the course of the study? Results What is the SIFT score for I582T? no conclusive evidence of the variants in parental blood : What was considered conclusive evidence? What read depth was obtained in these parents? Preliminary data from an ongoing NCI-sponsored DICER1 family history study : Understanding that these are unpublished data, it would be helpful if the authors could state approximately how large is the sample size. Do all asymptomatic patients in this study undergo thyroid ultrasound and lung CT? We categorized a DICER1 mutation detected by NGS as mosaic when the following criteria were met: i. The mutation was evidently not a constitutional, germline allele because it was present at sub-heterozygous frequency (arbitrarily taken as below 35% of reads) : According to Table S7, even in the two cases where tumor purity was 80-90%, % of reads supporting the loss-of-function allele was only 21%. This argues that either 35% is too high of a cutoff for determining subtotal mosaicism, or the tumors do not possess this mutation in every cell. Could the authors speculate on which is more likely? Table 2: The cystic nephroma in patient 103 and the Wilms tumor in Klein Case 1 both feature missense mutations in the non-hotspot allele (p.V377I and p.P453L, respectively, and the effect if any of these mutations on DICER1 activity is not known. Thus it may be premature to label these cases truly two-hit in nature. The fact that some tumors in children with mosaic hotspot mutations acquire several different LOF mutations (such as Study ID 103) agrees with the model. However the allele frequencies are overall low (3-4% in this tumor) making it unclear how significant the LOF event actually was. The authors may also want to consider the possibility that, in cells with a hotspot mutation and an intact WT DICER1 allele, 5p/3p miRNA skewing leads to defects in DNA replication or repair, predisposing to a second hit. Such a mechanism could in theory help explain the higher incidence of tumors in this group of patients, along with the fact that many more codons of DICER1 may be mutated to casue a LOF allele, compared with the hotspot missense mutations. Table 2: how was allele loss determined? Figure 3 is confusing, as pt 105 appears to be on a different x-axis than the other four patients Discussion Additionally, we hypothesize that in mosaic hotspot children, wider tissue/organ distribution of aberrant miRNA processing during development may produce syndromic features not seen in children with predisposing LOF mutations, such as juvenile-type small intestinal polyps : Could the authors speculate on why hotspot mutations would cause small intestinal polyps but LOF mutations would not? In the one case (#102, table 2) in which a polyp was sequenced, it was found to harbor both a LOF and hotspot mutation. As the hotspot mutation is the rate-limiting step, it seems more likely that LOF children also develop polyps, but at a lower frequency, and that their small intestines have not been thoroughly examined for the presence of polyps. It may be impossible to unequivocally rule out mosaicism, but techniques such as targeted resequencing by high depth NGS in multiple tissues can greatly improve diagnostic confidence : Usually, it is clinically unfeasible to perform high-depth NGS in multiple tissues from a patient. In patients whose germline DICER1 sequencing is negative, it may be more helpful to use clinical proxies to identify patients at high risk for mosaicism, such as young age and multifocal disease. Other Throughout the manuscript, there are a few instances where RNAse IIIb is used instead of RNase IIIb. The latter is more standard nomenclature. 