Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper. The aim of this paper is to discuss how researchers can involve patients when applying for research funding, and to outline opportunities and pitfalls. It uses a combination of knowledge about this process from literature and the authors' wide ranging experience. This article provides a general background to patient and public involvement in research. The article very usefully includes in Box 1 and Table 1 current resources and guidelines that are available. The information is very comprehensive and relevant to the aims of the article - which is how to to incorporate PPI into the design and conduct of research. This overview is unique and in my view will be widely used. However can it be moved to later in the article? The tables do break up the flow of the paper and break up what I think is an important section about the difference between PPI and patient participation in research. The section on the difference between patient involvement and patient participation in research is much needed as PPI is often conflated with qualitative research. This is still a common problem. I wondered if Figure 1 could come earlier, or if Box 2 can show the differences more explicitly instead of providing a list of definitions, can the differences be displayed side by side, using maybe column headings of differences and similarities. This will enable the reader to access the important distinctions more easily. On page 10 in the section about action research, co-design and co-learning there is a sentence about how a partnership approach may interact with an intervention. I think this is the first time intervention studies are mentioned as previous text has stated that patient participation in research may be through interviews, focus groups and surveys. I wondered if this could be expanded to include that these can be undertaken in the context of trials, as then the text would align better with the material in the supplementary documents. There are a lot of examples in the supplementary files and this can be quite difficult to navigate. I have an observation on how the steps are characterised. At first I thought the text in italics are the recommended steps for researchers? For example on page 11 the first step for researchers outlined is to search the internet for organisations and guidelines to see if research priorities have been established in their area of interest. There is however some advice given earlier (written in italics) that recommends understanding what PPI will add and which uncertainties about patient perspectives may benefit from more exploration. Then I realised that the steps are characterised in the blue subheadings. These are a mix of 1. advice (e.g. understand what PPI is (this is a conceptual issue)), 2. questions (e.g. how does PPI differ from patient participation?) and then 3. labels for different issues (e.g. patients doing research, which is a practical issue). Could there be more consistency across the paper? I wondered if it would work if they were all translated into specific statements / recommendations particularly as the aim is to provide guidance on how to incorporate PPI. Related to the above - I wondered whether the section headings of "how does PPI differ from research participation" and action research, co-design, co-learning and co-production" should be at the same level as the others. They are very important - but I think are fundamentally about understanding what PPI is. The text in italics is also a mix I think of statements of principles - e.g. seek to balance positive and negative views, rather than a statement of how to do that (the title of the paper is how to incorporate PPI....) The section on how many patients to involve is again really helpful as this is the question that people often ask. This is usually asked in the context of "representativeness" of the patients' views. Can this section be expanded - with some examples of what teams can say when the "representativeness" of their patient advisors is questioned. It links to a later section on bias and conflict of interest. The authors recommend that researchers select patients with balanced views. It is difficult to know what view people hold at the outset. Can this recommendation again be expanded upon - with ideas about how you may do this, or how you may get fresh perspectives over time. Towards the end there is a heading about involving patients in writing a grant application. This made me realise that the advice spans both the process of PPI at pre-award and then outlining what to do post award. I wondered therefore whether this section should come earlier. PPI advisors will have an input into the design of the PPI throughout and the research design throughout, and therefore impact on decision making about earlier topics in the article. I think this is a really valuable paper in providing such a comprehensive overview of resources and guidelines for PPI and in highlighting the key challenges of good PPI practice. My suggestions are really about structuring the content to make it more accessible to the reader by highlighting maybe two aspects. First the need to understand what PPI is and is not. Second the practical issues - how to do it. 