The manuscript by Vasudevan and Vyas explores the interesting hypothesis that the response of mice to urine-borne kairomones of rats is dose dependent according to the Weber’s law. To do so the authors basically analyse the avoidance of mice to different amounts of urine. In fact, the authors purify the MUPs fraction (3 kD mw), where the kairomone is contained according to Papes et al. (2010) , and they treat this fraction with high concentrations of menadione to displace odorants contained in the lipophilic pockets of the MUPs. This strategy ensures that the reaction of mice to the stimulus is due to the major urinary proteins and not to urine-borne volatiles. The results apparently lend support to the authors’ hypothesis. There is a highly significant (negative) correlation between the amount of stimulus and the time spent near it by the mice, following a sigmoid dose-response curve. The authors further test their hypothesis by checking whether mice are able to discriminate different amounts of rat kairomone. To do so they design a simple two-choice test in which the mice can explore two arms of an arena in which two different amounts of MUPs are present, the ratio between the amount in both sides being 1.2 or 1.3. There is a clear, highly significant avoidance of the arm containing the higher amount, as compared to the other arm. This demonstrates that, throughout the linear region of the dose-response curve, mice discriminate two “doses” differing by x1.2 or x1.3. The main problem with this experimental design is that the authors are checking the response to different amounts (from 3.125 to 50 μL) of the putative kairomone, rather than to different concentrations of it. If the kairomone were volatile, there would be a direct relationship between amount of sample (volume) and the concentration of the substance in the air: the larger air-liquid interface, the more molecules would be in the air phase. However, a MUP is, due to its high molecular weight, virtually non-volatile. Being a vomeronasal stimulus (according to Papes et al., 2010 , trp2 -/- do not avoid rat urine), for the animal to detect the kairomone it must contact the “drop” of MUP solution and perform vomeronasal pumping. The important question here is how the MUP solution is presented, and no details are found in Material and Methods. Very likely, a drop of the MUP solution would be deposited in a piece of filter paper or a similar absorbent material. Depending on the volume of solution, a given area of the paper would become soaked by capillarity. In a regular piece of absorbent material, a drop of liquid would diffuse giving an approximately circular wet area. Accordingly, one can calculate the theoretical relationship between the volume (V) of MUP solution and the radius (r) of the resulting spot (circular wet area) which would be related to the function: V = πr 2 . The radius of the spot of urine increases with the volume of the drop. Depending on the size of the area considered in each experiment as “near urine”, this fact, rather than the effect of the “dose”, may explain the results. In Material and methods, under the heading “Dose-responsivity to kairomones”, the authors explain that “avoidance was quantified by comparing the time spent by mice in two opposing bisects of the area (76x9 cm; 15 cm)”. The term bisect is confusing (it may mean a line sectioning something in two halves, or just sectioning it in two pieces of different size). It is difficult, therefore, to have a clear idea of what the authors are really measuring, for two reasons. First, in spite of what they say (“…comparing the time spent by mice in two opposing bisects”) in their Fig. 1 the authors only represent the time spent “near rat urine”. It seems that this is the measurement analysed statistically (no comparison is made with the side containing PBS). Second, the arena employed for the tests seems to be a long corridor 76cm long per 9 cm wide, but there is no mention of the actual size of the area that the authors consider “near rat urine”. I assume that they are using an identical area throughout the experiment, maybe a given region at the end of the arm where urine (or MUP solution) is presented. But, if so, as the volume of urine (or MUP solution) increases, the urine spot occupies a larger proportion of the area “near rat urine”. If we assume that contacting the urine allows detecting the kairomone (by vomeronasal pumping) and results in avoidance, the larger the urine spot (which would be the region actually avoided), the shorter the time in the area “near rat urine”. When the spot diameter approaches the size of the area “near rat urine” (e.g. the width of the arena), the time visiting this area reaches an asymptotic line at a minimum. This would explain Figure 1 of the manuscript. In the same vein, if two spots of different size are located in the two sides of the arena (experiment 2; discrimination threshold) and animals are avoiding contact with the MUP spot, the time in area “near rat urine” on the side having a larger spot (let’s say a 70% of the area “near rat urine”) will be shorter than the time in the side having a smaller spot (which may represent just a 20% of the area “near rat urine”). As a conclusion, the main problem of the work reported in the manuscript, otherwise well designed and performed, is that the authors are using the term “dose” in a misleading way. The volume of MUP solution is probably not a proper measurement of the “dose” of the stimulus, or the response of the sensory organ (VNO). Vomeronasal neurons respond to the stimulus (MUP) in a concentration-dependent manner (e.g. Leinders-Zufall et al., 2000 ; Leinders-Zufall et al., 2004 ), rather than in a way proportional to the volume of the MUP solution (and the area of the resulting “urine” spot). Therefore, varying the concentration of MUPs in the solution while using a fixed volume would really test the hypothesis that the dose-response to a kairomone follows Weber’s law. Anyway, the results are difficult to interpret due to the lack of details on procedure. The way in which the stimulus is presented is not properly described, and the size of the area “near rat urine” must be known in order to check if the explanation of the results by the authors is correct or not.