Middelveen et al. have, produced a well written and informative account of their findings on the Culture and identification of Borrelia spirochetes in human vaginal and seminal secretions from subjects diagnosed as Lyme Disease patients by serological and clinical parameters compared to control individuals who were asymptomatic and serologically negative for the Borrelia burgodorfei. Of most interest is their report of the PCR sequencing of cultured spirochetes from three couples having unprotected sex which indicated that two couples had identical strains of Bb sensu stricto in their semen and vaginal secretions, while the third couple had identical strains of B. hermsii . I believe the study is worthy of acceptance and approve it for the following reasons: The rationale and hypothesis behind the investigation is clearly stated. The work has been carefully planned, employing an array of pertinent experimental approaches: routine light microscopy, histological silver staining and immunohistological staining methodology, DNA probe analysis and PCR to demonstrate the presence of Borrelia spirochetes in cultures prepared from semen or vaginal secretions from Lyme disease subjects serologically tested for Bb, whilst samples from Bb negative control subjects did not yield spirochetes. The study is well executed, with samples analysed following blind coding, and techniques performed in a number of independent laboratories. The data sets, tables and figures are presented in a detailed and informative manner. The authors demonstrate an authoritative awareness of previous work in the area, citing relevant animal studies which had investigated the possible sexual transmission of Borrelia, and give a plausible explanation for the discrepancies between the findings by Guftafson in dogs and those of Moody and Woodrun in inbred rodent models. In this second version of the article, the authors have taken pains to address the main concerns of the reviewer Donta, and also answered the comments raised by Baker and others, to version one of the manuscript. In their replies, Middelveen and Stricker have, in my opinion, more than allayed the criticisms with regard to technical details, and also those concerning aspects such as CDC surveillance criteria and of the unknown spirochetal load. The conclusions drawn, that the culture of viable Borrelia spirochetes in human genital secretions suggests that Lyme disease could be transmitted by intimate contact from person to person, are justified and of significance. Their findings to date warrant a larger study and further attention by the scientific and medical community. 