 Overview: This paper seeks to build on previous work published by this group which has demonstrated that pre-treatment of ARPE-19 cells with L-Sulforaphane (LSF) leads to protection against oxidative damage as assessed using a cell proliferation assay. In particular, here the authors seek to identify any changes in fatty acids and more complex lipids following pre-treatment with LSF and then H 2 O 2 . The authors report that no fatty acids (total fatty acid analysis) were significantly altered under conditions of oxidative stress. However, they report extremely large fold-changes for cis -oleic, trans -oleic and eicosatrienoic acids upon treatment with LSF in the absence of oxidative stress. For the lipidomic portion of the study the authors report that several lipids showed statistically significant differences under oxidative stress following pre-treatment with LSF. Unfortunately, the paper suffers from problems associated with data analysis making it unsuitable for indexing at this time. Fatty acid analysis: On page 5 the authors report very large fold-changes on the order of 10 7 to 10 9 for oleic ( cis and trans ) and ETA upon treatment with LSF in the absence of oxidative stress. Upon inspection of the underlying data I found that for all four of the "Untreated –" samples, the intensity for these fatty acids was 1x10 -7 for both cis - and trans - oleic acid and 1x10 -9 for ETA (see table here ). It would appear that these fatty acids were not detected in these samples and subsequently values have been imputed automatically. While imputation is common in metabolomic analysis it is not valid to report a fold-change or p-value where all values for the control group have been imputed. Lipidomic Analysis: Here the authors report that several lipids were significantly different (p 0.001) upon pre-treatment with 20 M LSF relative to the untreated controls under conditions of oxidative stress. Careful examination of the underlying data suggests that a couple of errors may have been made in data processing. Specifically, the fold-change for PC 33:3 was 1.946 and not 2.33 as reported. Similarly, PE 34:0 and PE 38:5 had fold-changes of 0.723 and 0.684 respectively and not the reported 0.394 and 0.292 reported in the paper. I have reproduced the relevant data from the underlying data in the table here for clarity. I’m also confused about the statistical analysis. Using a two-tailed t-test none of the lipids reported as significant had a p-value 0.001 as reported in the text, more generally it is unclear how the authors have dealt with the issue of multiple comparisons. The experimental section of lists several statistical tests but it is unclear which test was used for each analysis. Greater clarification as to how the statistical analysis was performed is necessary. Experimental Design: The authors have used n = 4 for each group. While n = 4 is probably fine for using assays with a single metric such as the proliferation assay it is probably insufficient for lipidomic analysis. Indeed, the lipid data seems to be highly variable. For example, the total amount of lipid seems to vary substantially more than I would have expected. A crude measure of this variation is reflected in the median intensity of all the lipid measured for each sample which I have plotted here . From the experimental section on page 4 it appears that cells were seeded at a density of 1.5 x 10 6 before being conditioned as described in the “Cell treatment prior to analysis” section. If I’m reading this correctly then there was no adjustment for the number of cells following the conditioning but immediately before lipid extraction. Were an equivalent number of cells extracted (as opposed to seeded) in each sample, and if so, do the authors have any insight into why such a high degree of variability was observed in the lipidomics data? Similarly, I assume that treatment with hydrogen peroxide resulted in some cell death, what steps were taken to ensure that dead cells were not being extracted along with the live cells? Finally, I would suggest that some important comparisons have not been analysed. Presumably the hypothesis is that LSF treatment leads to changes in lipid profile which are then somehow protective against oxidative damage. I would suggest that the authors need to compare the lipid profiles of the LSF 20 M – against the untreated – group. This should capture lipidomic differences associated with LSF treatment without the confounding effect of H 2 O 2 treatment. Additional notes and suggestions: On page 3 the authors state that all five major fatty acids in the human retina are long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). This is incorrect, docosahexaenoic and arachidonic acids are PUFAs, oleic acid is monounsaturated and stearic and palmitic are saturated. Figures 2 and 4: The annotations are too small to read. The graphs need to be re-drawn with a larger font. Figure 3 and 5: The authors state that the y-axis values are automatically generated as arbitrary units by the software used. The authors need to clearly state how the data is being processed. (In this case it seems likely that the data is being log 2 transformed.) Is a box and whisker plot appropriate for four data points? Page 5: The text here indicates that lipid quantitation was performed using external calibration curves however no concentrations are given throughout the text or underlying data. In the “LCMS Lipid Analysis Data.xlsx” file from the underlying data, five lipids are included in duplicate; PC 31:1, PC 33:3, PC 33:2, PC 34:4 and PC 37:4. Conclusion: Due to the problems with the data analysis outlined above I’m unable to recommend this paper for indexing. If the authors are able to address these problems however, this paper should be considered as a fresh submission. 