This is a short paper that presents a brief but easy-to-understand analysis of the correlation between the cultural orientation of countries and countries’ scientific performance in terms of bibliometric statistics. It would be helpful if the author could offer more extensive information on the way in which the variables used in the analysis have been obtained. The definitions of the bibliometric variables need to be carefully explained. Likewise, it should be explained how the variables for national cultural orientations have been obtained. The statistical analysis is carried out using Pearson correlation analysis. Before presenting the correlations, the author should present descriptive statistics for the variables included in the analysis. In particular, I would like to know whether some of the variables may be highly skewed. If this is the case, the use of Pearson correlation analysis could easily lead to misleading results. The use of for instance the Spearman correlation may then be more appropriate. The author relies strongly on statistical significance testing. My recommendation is to leave out all significance tests and instead to present confidence intervals for the correlation coefficients. Significance testing leads to problematic dichotomous thinking, as has for instance been pointed out in a recent contribution in Nature (Amrhein et al. 1 ). Following the so-called estimation statistics approach, reporting confidence intervals is preferable over reporting significance tests ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Estimation_statistics ). I am aware that another reviewer (Tennant) recommends performing even more significance tests. I disagree with this recommendation. I don’t consider this to be good statistical practice. It would be nice if the author could deepen the analysis a bit more. This can for instance be done by showing scatter plots for the most interesting relationships between variables. In these scatter plots, the names of countries could be shown, especially for those countries that seem to display interesting behavior (e.g., outliers). This would lead to a more in-depth analysis that probably offers richer insights. The paper uses lots of abbreviations. This makes the paper more difficult to read. My recommendation is to reduce the number of abbreviations that are used. It may also be helpful to include a table listing all abbreviations and the corresponding full terms. The author interprets the analysis in terms of correlation instead of causation. This is very good. There is a risk, however, that some readers may give causal interpretations to the findings of the author. My suggestion is to add a sentence at the end of the paper emphasizing that causal interpretations are not warranted. 