This is an interesting paper addressing a question that is important to journal editors and publishers as well as the wider ‘open science’ community, namely what is meant by open peer review. I have three significant concerns that need to be addressed, followed by more minor annotations and comments. Major issues, in the order they arise in the article Would this meet most established criteria for a systematic review? Although the author completes a PRISMA checklist, he also notes firstly that he searched Web of Science, then that he added a bunch of other sources, and finally, “This set of articles was further enriched with 42 definitions from sources found through searching for the same terms in other academic databases (e.g., Google Scholar, JSTOR, disciplinary databases), Google (for blog articles) and Google Books (for books), as well as following citations in relevant bibliographies and literature reviews." This suggests that it is not really systematic (although the author is to be applauded for providing the data he worked from). There is a lack of clarity about the universe of literature that is being assessed, and of details about how it was assessed. In my view, the article is still a worthwhile undertaking, despite being non-systematic, but the title ought to reflect this. In my view the author does not pay enough attention to one important variant of open review, namely real-time review in the open, in which either invited reviewers or ‘the crowd’ comment on an article, with comments being posted as they are ready, rather than at the end of a formal process of peer review and decision-making. Conversely, the inclusion of ‘open platforms’ seems very confusing to me, as they do not have many of the criteria of openness that define the other flavours of open review that the author describes, but instead are about decoupling peer review from publication. Indeed Figure 6 makes plain that as a trait open platforms only occur twice in the 122 definitions considered. I would bet that the ‘real-time’ variant occurs far more often, and ought to be included as one of the key traits within the umbrella definition. In a paper that aims to define open peer review, it is unfortunate that the author doesn’t spend longer considering alternative definitions of peer review. Throughout the article he appears to conflate editorial selection (whether a journal accepts a manuscript) with technical review (whether the work is sound and properly reported). Thus when he talks about the “problems with peer review” he is sometimes talking about reviewers not spotting technical problems, sometimes about editors rejecting articles that don’t suit their taste, and sometimes about authors going through cycles of editorial rejection to achieve a high impact publication. Conflating these various things does not provide a sound foundation on which to build a definition of open peer review. This conflation is made worse when, for example, it is implied that the only reason for retraction is error. Thus most of the first three paragraphs of the ‘background’ section, and much of what follows about biases, incentives and wastefulness are muddled, and the references and evidence do not all support the broad claims made about ‘peer review’ (itself an ‘umbrella term’). More minor concerns, with page numbers (PDF version) of the corresponding text Abstract and later: The author needs to decide throughout the article whether he is singular (as he appears to be) or uses the royal ‘we’. p7 – it is not helpful to list the seven types of openness without definitions. Even if the lengthy discussion of them follows later, I was desperate for some brief definition, in particular for the last two, and was labouring under a misapprehension about the meaning of the fourth, until much later in the article when I discovered what was meant by ‘open pre-review manuscripts’. p8 – proponents of open identity review in medicine would also point out that it makes conflicts of interest much more apparent and subject to scrutiny. p8 – some journals use open reports without open identities – i.e. posting reports with published articles but without identifying the reviewer (e.g. http://embor.embopress.org/about#Transparent_Process). The author writes as if open reports must always have open identities. p10 – I think ‘open pre-review manuscripts’ is the wrong name for what the author is describing. At first I thought this meant the practice of posting the authors’ version of a manuscript alongside the peer review history (as is done by The BMJ, for example). But I think the author means ‘Open posting before formal review’ (which some call preprints). He might like to consider the suggestions by Neylon et al. about this issue of terminology (http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2016/12/09/092817) p10 – I wonder if the author has any evidence that PubPeer has been ‘a major influence’? p11 – I don’t think ‘open platforms’ is the right term either. (Although as noted above, I don’t really think this section belongs in the discussion at all, if it is to remain I would strongly recommend renaming it.) In publishing terms a platform is ‘where’ you publish articles, and the author is here discussing an aspect of how you get to the point of publication, and in particular peer review services (which as far as I can tell de facto meet only rather limited criteria of openness). I think what the author is describing is peer review options decoupled from journals (see Priem and Hemminger, Front Comput Neurosci 2012; 6: 19) and as noted I don’t understand why these have a place in a definition of open peer review. p11 – Conclusion. I don’t believe the author presents a unified definition of open peer review, for all the reasons discussed above, but he does present most of the traits that together come under the umbrella term. 