The author describes a very straight-forward tool to infer possibly amplified genomic regions based on the amplification status of single genes from a targeted panel. InferAMP reports the genes that are likely co-amplified and in addition infers the size and the number of potentially co-amplified genes that were not assessed in the assay and outputs the COSMIC genes found in the genomic region. This tool is developed for oncologists to better understand the reported amplified genes in genomic context. The developed web-based tool is therefore important and will be the preferred way of using this tool for oncologists. It is also good to see the full code and data tables used are available on Github. InferAMP is a very easy tool to use and functions as advertised. The associated manuscript is well readable and explains the functionality satisfactory. However, after reading the manuscript and testing InferAMP I have a few questions that need to be answered. Points to be addressed: The web-based tool is now only suitable for FoundationOne assays. Although this is very useful for many oncologists not all institutes use this assay. I am aware that the the command-line version of the tool has the possibility to provide different genes set and therefore works with additional assays. However, a command-line version will not be suitable for oncologists. Additional functionality of the web-based would greatly improve the usability of InferAMP. The output of InferAMP includes the genes that are possibly co-amplified and the genes in the amplicon that are mentioned in the COSMIC database. In addition, the results mention the potentially co-amplified genes (for example 214 genes when running CCND1, FGF3, FGF4 and FGF19, Use case 1). A list of these genes is currently not available. It would be useful to output these lists of genes in addition to the COSMIC as not all targetable genes will necessarily be in the COSMIC list. Currently the COSMIC list is used to provide an additional rationale to prioritize genes and identify genes suitable for targeting. The rationale for using this list is not provided in the text. A little more background and explanation for choosing this list would be helpful. In addition, which COSMIC list is used exactly? COSMIC cancer census list 1 or all genes mentioned in COSMIC? Points for consideration but not necessary for this manuscript: Furthermore, I was wondering whether germline CNVs could affect the results of targeted panels, especially since patient-matched blood reference samples are not often used. If so, would it not be nice to add CNV data from for example the Database of Genomic Variants ( http://dgv.tcag.ca )? This could identify amplifications that are not somatic but merely ‘normal’ differences between individuals (CNVs). 