The manuscript “Continuous outcome logistic regression for analyzing body mass index distributions” is a very well written paper. The issue is interesting and provides strong suggestion for future studies to consider continuous logistic regression instead of traditional logistic regression. I have only some minor questions/suggestions for the authors: 1. The main research question was defined clearly in the end of Introduction section (association between smoking and BMI). However, it was less clearly explained why association between smoking and BMI was presented at different levels of sex in such detail in the results, but not the other covariates (e.g., consumption of fruits and vegetables)? 2. In the discussion (page 8), the authors state “The corresponding BMI-dependent odds ratios from continuous BMI logistic regression (Table 3) indicated that a model that assumed proportional and thus BMI-independent odds ….”. Now, looking at the heading of the Table 3, it says “Estimated Non-proportional odds ratios for smoking”. Could you please clarify, whether the Table 3 presents results for proportional or non-proportional odds ratios? 3. To demonstrate the difference between “traditional” and this “new” logistic regression approach, I would like to see also estimated odds ratios for traditional logistic regression with ad hoc categorization for this cohort. Would it be possible to add these results as supplemental material and discuss the differences between these results shortly? I understand that comparing these models was not the aim of this study, but still I think it would be interesting for the readers who are not familiar with this new approach to see this difference. 4. In the discussion on page 9, the authors compare their results to previous studies. It would be also interesting to compare the magnitude of the association between smoking and BMI in their study and in the previous studies. If there are earlier studies from Switzerland or neighboring countries, are the results more similar with these compared to studies conducted in other, geographically more distant populations (e.g. USA, Asian countries)? Furthermore, it is not clear to me how the similarity of the results obtained using continuous logistic regression and traditional logistic regression should be interpreted. Is it a sign of validity of the new approach or does it imply that the traditional method is as good as the new one? 5. Please add a paragraph about the possible limitations of the proposed new logistic regression to the Discussion section. 6. What are the practical implications / future steps based on your findings? Should further studies move from traditional regression model to using this new approach or should the method still be tested in other data? 