 General Comments : The study aims to investigate the association between Social Vulnerability Index (SVI) and healthy use of leisure time (outcome). The authors applied multilevel analysis including in the models SVI and individual variables potentially related to the outcome. In general, the manuscript is reasonably well written (exception the section Discussion), and some specific questions, listed below, claim to be replied. Specific Comments: 1. Abstract: The Abstract is structured, although if taking into consideration the specific comments listed forward, the Abstract might be re-written. The keywords might include: ‘multilevel analysis’ and ‘leisure time’ instead of recreation. 2. Introduction: This section is adequately formatted, although it should be opportune to include 2 or 3 papers which have identified similar or different associations, in order to reinforce the present purpose. 3. Methods : 3.1. Response rates in different multi-stage sampling process should be reported. On the other hand, non-respondent characteristics should be shown, related to participants. Moreover, it is important to ask if the authors had tested interactions between potential differences in any variable and the main variable (SVI) (participants versus non-participants) related to the outcome to evaluate potential selection bias [See Szklo Nieto: Epidemiology- beyond the basics- 2 nd Edition, 2007]. Weighting variables to correct ‘design effect’ (multi-stage sampling) has been considered? It should be clear. 3.2. How the authors could be sure that a self-administered Instrument in that population corresponds to their reality? Perhaps it should be relevant to replicate some information among, at least, 10% of the population and calculate the intraclass correlation coefficient to evaluate reliability. If this procedure or a similar one has been considered to that evaluation it might be important to refer it. 3.3. The term ‘Result Variable’ should be rewritten as “Outcome”. 3.4. SVI - The variable was classified as ‘No risk’, ‘Low/Moderate’ and ‘High risk”, so those 3 strata should be described in the 4 th paragraph of the explanatory variables (page 4). 3.5. In Table 1 (Method section), why different categories into the same dimension have got equal weight? Ex:, To the dimension Occupation , different categories has been attributed the same weight (0,30). This comment seems to be reasonable, mainly because the authors reported (last footnote under Table 1) the great importance of this variable, in terms of its discrimination power (‘a key factor’). 3.6. Statistical Analysis : In complex sampling (multistage), odds ratios use to be overestimated, being preferable to use prevalence ratios . It seems to be recommended to comment about that. How many levels has been considered in the multilevel analysis? What variables composed the level 2: Region or households? It is not clear. The cluster effect of Region, doesn't seem to be estimated (where are ICC values for Region?). The formula PVE =V x 100 might be better explained, it doesn't seem to be clear. If Region was not considered as an ecological variable in the analysis (level 2 or 3) it is not plausible to show prevalence according Regions in the descriptive analysis. What References related to multilevel analysis were used? 4. Results : 4.1. Table 2 : In classifying the variable: Knows how to read and write as yes/no , it is recommended to review the results since they seem to be inverted in relation to the definition shown in footnote. 4.2. Tables 3 e 4 : The information on those tables are heavy and it is redundant to show SE and CI. Perhaps SE should be suppressed. Please, review the results related to the variable: Knows how to read and write classified as yes/no (Table 3). Why Region has been included, since the group of variables shown here are individual variables? See comment referred on item 3.6. (statistical analysis). In Table 3, there is no mention related to weighted data, why? 4.3. Table 5 : a) In general, odds ratios showed higher magnitudes than expected. Probably, as referred above, it is a result of using odds ratios instead of prevalence ratios. Moreover, the large confidence intervals denote lack of precision, due to the strata dilution (high SVI category). On the other hand, multicollinearity between SVI and other contextual variables shown on the footnote may contribute to that. It might be a good strategy to join moderate + high strata as one. b) ICC values are highest than expected and they increase from model 0 to model 3. How does it is plausible, since after adjusting by individual variables, ICC should decrease because the influence of the last one variables? c) By the way, those contextual variables has not been described in the sections ‘Methods’ and/or descriptive ‘Results’, as well as some individual variables like household activities of the child/adolescents, etc… d) One strategy to evaluate multicollinearity is to run matrix correlations among the independent variables. e) It is recommended to add the model quality adjusted indexes (Hosmer Lemeshow χ 2 in the case of logistic regression models or likelihood ratios if prevalence ratios are used). 5. Discussion : Most paragraphs on this Section are not in consonance with the study purposes and results. Some of them are only related to the descriptive analysis (Ex: paragraphs 6 e 7). There were neither specific discussion related to the multilevel analysis nor comparison between such results and those found in the literature. Some paragraphs are extremely far from the supposed aims of the present study (Ex:, paragraphs 2, 5, 8, 10,11, 12). In paragraph 4 the authors reported: … “ in this sense, our study showed that a significant part of the population under analysis, had some degree of social vulnerability, which makes us consider this indicator as one social determinant of health ”. Based on the text highlighted above, it should be emphasized that just because most of the population (around 90%) were classified as moderate or high SVI, this variable probably does not keep good discrimination power, so that it should not be considered as a good determinant of health. There is a statement that is not found in the respective Table 5 (in paragraph 12, the authors reported an odds ratio = 14. This value was not found in Table 5, and its interpretation is misleading, since odds ratio is not risk). Strengths and limitations reported in paragraphs 21 and 22 were poorly described. The main limitation is not the study base (secondary) but mainly related to the representatives what was not reported by authors (missing data in the sample process could lead to selection bias), and the ‘ self-administered instrument ’ without mention about who replied the questions (parents, children, adolescents) could lead to measurement bias. No statement related to potential selection or measurement bias was reported by authors. The conclusions are equally misleading. Taking into consideration the scope of this section, the authors did not present a consistent discussion, and, so, the section should be completely re-written. 6. References : As already reported by Reviewers, no relevant references related to the analytical phase (multilevel analysis) were found. Among 38, 15 References are related to International Institutions, or similar. There should be specific references related to the study aims and the main findings. 