Massive increases in the prices of some drugs have generated significant outrage and media attention. Most infamously, Turing Pharmaceutical's increase in the price of Daraprim from $13.50 to $750 made headlines around the world. In part, no doubt, because the antics of Turing CEO Martin Shkreli made him an impossible to ignore villain straight out of central casting. In this paper, David and Dixit look at a seemingly similar case, Marathon Pharmaceutical's decision to price Emflaza at $89,000 a year when it is available elsewhere in the world at a price on the order of $1500 a year. David and Dixit caution that the two cases need to be distinguished because prior to Marathon, Emfalza was not for sale in the United States at any price. Marathon performed a useful service in seeking and obtaining FDA approval and there has to be a balancing of costs and benefits if we want to continue to incentivize firms to look for other pharmaceuticals from around the world and make them available in the United States. I agree with David and Dixit's analysis but I would go further. While David and Dixit suggest that we need "bespoke solutions" I worry that in trying to solve every problem we will create a mass of regulations that raise costs and harm American patients overall. We need to look beyond the headlines at the bigger picture. Although a handful of generics have seen extreme increases in prices, the prices of generics overall have been falling. The Department of Health and Human Services in 2016 concluded, for example, that big price increases were confined to small markets and that overall total spending and prices were falling. https://aspe.hhs.gov/pdf-report/understanding-recent-trends-generic-drug-prices More references here: http://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2016/02/the-good-news-on-generic-drugs.html The baby in this case is much bigger and more valuable than the bathwater so even though massive increase in prices feel unjust and unfair we need to be extra careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater. The rules governing the US generic markets are working very well. US prices for generics are low by world standards and availability is high. Branded pharmaceuticals in the United States are, of course, very expensive. But what needs to be stressed is that by a time a drug is approved, patents last only about 10-15 years and then prices fall rapidly with generic competition. Moreover, a large majority of prescriptions are for generics. Even more importantly, it's vital that we continue to produce new drugs to reduce morbidity and mortality. In any welfare comparison, high prices are a small price to pay for better life-saving and live-improving medicines. Thus, I agree with the David and Dixit analysis but suggest that broadening the picture would strengthen their argument even further. 