Sandra Guauque-Olarte et al provide an overview of both somatic and germline mutations in CHEK2 that have been identified in Latin-American populations. The authors interrogate cBioPortal and ICGC databases to identify somatic mutations and ExAC and a review of existing literature to identify germline mutations. My reservations about the manuscript are as follows: Currently the authors do not make it clear throughout the manuscript whether they are describing somatic mutations or germline mutations/variants. Please add a column to table 2 to show clearly which are somatic and which are germline. In the abstract it says: “Latin American studies have been restricted to breast and colorectal cancer and only two mutations out of four that have been interrogated in this population were identified, namely c.1100delC and c.349AG”. Table 4 which lists the mutations reported in the literature in Latin American studies does not show the c.349AG mutation but a c.478AG mutation and I can see no further mention of c.349AG in the rest of the manuscript. Please resolve this. Results: The text description of the difference between Figure 1 and 2 in the start of the results section is unclear. As far as I can see Figure 1 shows data per cancer type in TCGA and Figure 2 shows data per study in TCGA. I don’t see the need to have both figures- figure 1 is sufficient and the text should read “breast, colorectal and non small cell lung cancer had more CHEK2 mutations than other cancer type”. At the start of the results section the authors describe mutations “before filtering”. Please be clearer and state before filtering steps to include only likely functional mutations. On page 5 the sentence beginning The type of cancer with the most mutations …. should read “After filtering for likely functional variants the cancers with the highest numbers of mutations in CHEK2 were breast followed by uterine, non small cell (?) lung and colorectal. Table 1 describes mutations in non Hispanic-latino samples. A98Mfs*13 and Q100*, which are found in a white Hispanic or latino sample should be removed (none of the other mutations in Latin American populations are in Table 1). The ethnicity column in table 1 also needs to be formatted properly – remove duplicated words and “_” between words. GWAS catalogue section in results- need to insert P-values for the associations that you report. Table 4. Insert OR and P-values for associations. Dataset 5. The %s should not have a – infront of them, it adds confusion as to what these values are. Discussion: The authors make reference to a CHEK2 1100delC mutation picked up in the TCGA datasets and refer to Table 1. I cant find 1100delC in table 1. I can only find it in Table 2 in ExAC. Please clarify. The authors state that other patients with cancer types such as uterine, lung, bladder and head and neck cancer should be screened for CHEK2 mutations. Here they are trying to show that because a gene is somatically mutated in a particular cancer type that there might also be a germline mutation that increases predisposition. Some of the mutations listed in tables 1 and 2 (mutations post filtering for likely functional impact) are missense or UTR and so it would be important to show that these somatic mutations are functional. Could the authors please annotate the TCGA/ICGC mutations with information of which domain they map to. The authors state there are 23 germline mutations which could cause cancer susceptibility. Were any of these examined for a functional affect on CHECK2 in paper by Bell et al 2007 1 or other studies of variants in CHEK2 on protein activity? I think it would be important to include this and to also state that functional assays would be helpful to determine which of these should be screened for in Latin American and other populations. References 1. Bell DW, Kim SH, Godwin AK, Schiripo TA, et al.: Genetic and functional analysis of CHEK2 (CHK2) variants in multiethnic cohorts. Int J Cancer . 2007; 121 (12): 2661-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however I have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Palles C. Reviewer Report For: Mutations of the CHEK2 gene in patients with cancer and their presence in the Latin American population [version 1; peer review: 3 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2791 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10703.r20668 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2791/v1#referee-response-20668 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Comments on this article Comments (0) Version 1 VERSION 1 PUBLISHED 29 Nov 2016 ADD YOUR COMMENT Comment keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right Open Peer Review Reviewer Status info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions Reviewer Reports Invited Reviewers 1 2 3 Version 1 29 Nov 16 read read read Claire Palles , NIHR Comprehensive Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford, UK Muhammad Usman Rashid , Department of Basic Sciences Research, Lahore, Pakistan Ewa Grzybowska , Centre of Oncology-MSC memorial Institute, Gliwice Branch, Wybrzeze Armii Krajowej 15, 44-101, Poland Comments on this article All Comments (0) Add a comment Sign up for content alerts Sign Up You are now signed up to receive this alert Browse by related subjects keyboard_arrow_left Back to all reports Reviewer Report 0 Views copyright © 2017 Grzybowska E. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. 24 Apr 2017 | for Version 1 Ewa Grzybowska , Centre of Oncology-MSC memorial Institute, Gliwice Branch, Wybrzeze Armii Krajowej 15, 44-101, Gliwice, Poland 0 Views copyright © 2017 Grzybowska E. This is an open access peer review report distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License , which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. format_quote Cite this report speaker_notes Responses (0) Approved With Reservations info_outline Alongside their report, reviewers assign a status to the article: Approved The paper is scientifically sound in its current form and only minor, if any, improvements are suggested Approved with reservations A number of small changes, sometimes more significant revisions are required to address specific details and improve the papers academic merit. Not approved Fundamental flaws in the paper seriously undermine the findings and conclusions The authors worked out the compilation of germline mutations in the CHEK2 gene in patients diagnosed with different cancer types and in different populations focusing on Latin American population. CHEK2 mutations have been linked with Li—Fraumeni syndrome, also germline mutations are thought to confer a predisposition to sarcomas, breast cancer and brain tumors. The most frequent CHEK2 mutation c.1100 delC is the low penetrance mutation and it has low impact in breast or other cancers risk. The rest of the mutations or SNPs are much less connected with the known cancer risk. Therefore, it is difficult to evaluate the increase of the different cancers risk for the carriers of germline mutations in CHEK2 gene. It is particularly difficult to do so if there are only one or two carriers of these mutations in the population under study. I totally agree with both reviewers especially with two issues: The text is written in that way that the reader can think the authors analyze somatic mutations in CHEK2 gene in different cancer types whereas they made the search for germline mutations. In Table 4 they indicate that the blood was the tissue which was used to analyze mutations so the text should be rewritten in that way there would be no doubt that germline mutations were under study. The Tables 1 and 2 also should be changed. The description of the ethnic minorities is strange. In Table 2 the data from databaseExAC do not contain the information about the disease connected with the mutation so it does not make sense to include these data if the title of the manuscript is “Mutations of the CHEK2 gene in the patients with cancer…” these data should be excluded from the analysis because they do not bring any important information about CHEK2 mutations in different cancer sites. 