This is a interesting case report of unusual and life threatening presentation of COVID -19. However, it needs proofreading. title should be rephrased. abstract -- 2 nd line -- needs to be edited -- these concerning symptoms. keywords -- misan-- unclear what is meant by it. Introduction -- SARS-COV-2 -fullform. Introduction -- first line needs to be edited -- - like can be split into two sentences. first line --Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a global pandemic disease caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. second line-- SARS-COV-2 virus binds to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor, which is expressed in the lung (type 2 alveolar cells), heart, intestinal epithelium, vascular endothelium, and kidneys, providing a mechanism for multi-organ dysfunction. change 97.5% of patients will exert symptoms within 11.5 days-- to --- 97.5% of patients are symptomatic within 11.5 days. rephrase -- To the best of our knowledge, there is limited data available in Iraq regarding arterial thrombosis leading to acute limb ischemia in a COVID-19 patient. case report part needs to be edited extensively -- pertinent exam needs to summarized in one line and needs to been order. skip this line-- The patient underwent a blood test, electrocardiogram (ECG), Doppler study for lower limb arterial examination, and chest radiograph. Imaging studies should be written together and in order -- chest x ray/ ct scan / doppler followed by management and outcome. The left lower limb was non-viable up to the mid-leg, meaning that the patient was a good candidate for amputation. However, the patient was still unstable and unfit for such a surgery ---- both these lines need to be edited / rewritten -- Our patient had no comorbidities and presented with acute lower limb ischemia as an early feature to COVID-19 infection before the development of fever or other respiratory features--- CHANGE TO Our patient had no comorbidities and presented with acute lower limb ischemia as an early feature of COVID-19 infection before the development of classic respiratory symptoms. In addition, our patient did not undergo surgery due to her instability and metabolic derangement,- -specify what metabolic derangement / was patient hemodynamically unstable? 