This is a well written case report about a patient presenting with syncope due to a pancreatic-pericardial fistula, a rare complication of chronic pancreatitis that has been reported for only a handful of patients in the literature. Multiple noninvasive diagnostic tests failed to detect the fistula. ERCP proved diagnostic, showing a leak of contrast from the distal pancreatic body coursing to and surrounding a circular structure in the chest. There are no controlled data or guidelines for management of pancreatic-pleural fistula but general treatment options include watchful waiting for spontaneous resolution, medical therapy (octreotide, nasojejunal feeding, total parenteral nutrition), or drainage internally or externally by endoscopic, percutaneous, or surgical approaches. The patient was too symptomatic from the pericardial effusion to offer observation alone and he was not fit for surgery due to his comorbid illnesses. Endoscopic stent placement is a very reasonable option and potentially a first-line therapy based on the excellent outcomes reported by case series for management of pancreatic-pleural fistula and in the single of 4 cases of pancreatic-pericardial fistula offered this treatment modality. It should be noted that those having a fistula between the pericardium and a (peri)pancreatic pseudocyst, which was absent in this case, may be offered endoscopic cystenterostomy. Unfortunately, this patient failed to respond to endoscopic stenting across the body of the pancreatic duct, based on having an unremitting, large pericardial drain output of approximately 3 Liters per day of pancreatic juice. Why this particular patient did not respond is unclear. It should be emphasized that the patient underwent stent change, essentially excluding a clogged or malpositioned stent as a cause for failed therapy. Moreover, we speculate that fistula pathophysiology and perhaps the response to transpapillary or bridging pancreatic duct stenting differs between pancreatic-pleural and pancreatic-pericardial types of fistula and that the extreme, high output fistula in this particular patient would doom any treatment modality that did not include surgery.