This paper addresses the vexing problem of how to unravel the complexity of human diseases. Such diseases often involve interactions between genes, and the question is therefore well-suited to an automated genetic approach, such as Synthetic Genetic Array technology, which was pioneered in bakers yeast and more recently adopted to another well-characterized model system, namely S. pombe. In this study the authors examine conserved genetic interactions between a fission yeast genes and a human query gene (both wildtype and loss-of-function mutants) then combine their experimental data with bioinformatics to characterize the network of genetic interactions and protein-protein interactions. They then leverage this network to identify interacting partners that comprise novel therapeutic targets. The example presented in this paper is the human UBA1 gene which encodes a gene that, when mutated, results in human X-linked spinal muscular atrophy disease. They perform whole genome genetic interaction mapping for digenetic interactions with both wild type and mutant versions of the gene, build a network with the observed interactions, and then expand that primary network by adding the known partners that interact with members of the primary network. They then turned to the zebrafish vertebrate model system to validate their newly identified therapeutic targets. This study adds another tool to the armamentarium of systems biology approaches with which the complexity of human diseases can be dissected. Because the system is new in the sense that fission yeast has been largely unexplored (compared to its budding yeast relative from which it has diverged by several hundred million years) the observations on fission yeast, when combined with those from other model systems, provide an attractive complementary approach to understanding complex human biology. Given that this study builds on earlier approaches, the authors should cite the previously published studies on genetic interactions, chemical genetic interactions and protein-protein interactions using budding yeast, fly and other models. Similarly, the comprehensive gene expression profiling approaches used in cultured mammalian cells as well as more recent whole genome RNA interference and CRISPR-based disruption screens should be cited. From a methodological perspective, in the interaction maps presented in Figures 3 and 4 it would be useful to describe or cite the methods used to define the links between genes. In the Results, where the authors describe the results of the different screens which include wild type and mutant human protein interactions as well as primary and secondary interactions it would be instructive to provide a graphic or flow chart that depicts how all the key pieces of data from each independent screen in fission yeast (and their analysis) were collapsed and presented together. It would also be instructive to provide background information or appropriate citations on the two compounds used in the zebrafish experiments, specifically their known or suspected mechanisms of action as well as the data to support these mechanisms. In the Discussion, the authors have room to put the YANA screening platform into context, comparing it to other orthologous genome-wide approaches. A key innovation in this study arises from the unique approach used in analyzing the data. Specifically, the conserved yeast genes that modify the phenotype induced by expressing a human gene of interest are assembled into human disease gene networks which are then augmented by additional protein-protein interaction data. Augmenting traditional network analysis in this manner may permit the identification of new therapeutic targets and target pathways. In summary, this comprehensive, genome-wide work represents an important addition to the systems biology toolkit to understand the complexities of human biology and the impact of this and subsequent data sets will surely increase as additional screens are added to the compendium. Minor points Western blot and growth curve: "or eight generations" is a typo, also the type of media the cells were grown in exponentially for 16 hours should be listed. In Figure 2 it is not clear which band the tubulin arrow is pointing to- the loading control bands should be indicated directly on the blot/gel. Also, it is apparent from this loading control that the amount of UPA1 expressed is extremely high, the authors should comment on the fact that the overexpressing lanes are actually UNDERloaded relative to the non-expressing lanes. Third paragraph of the Results: the software programme cytoscape should include a reference. Third paragraph of the Results: histone is misspelled " histon ". Sixth paragraph of the Results: the authors should clearly distinguish between the published data in zebrafish and their new data collected in this study Sixth paragraph of the Results: as mentioned be inhibitors mechanism of action should be described in more detail Second paragraph of the discussion: approximately 30,000 genes in the human genome should be cited and probably corrected to the conventional number of 21,000. 