SUMMARY OF STUDY The authors present a case report in which there is an association between chronic methylphenidate use from a very young age and delayed puberty and reproductive growth. The use of the term testicular failure is a misnomer. His low gonadotropins make this secondary testicular failure. There is no evidence that he has primary testicular failure, as the authors do not present any data to show lack of response to gonadotropins. At best, this may be an association. SPECIFIC COMMENTS FOR AUTHORS Introduction The introduction should conclude with a restatement of the goal or thesis of the manuscript. It currently ends describing mice fertility. Case Please clarify for the semen analysis after use of pellet. Do the authors mean after the examination of the spun down SA pellet? If so please rephrase this. Was delayed puberty ever ruled out in this patient? Was he examined by a pediatric endocrinologist? Why was the patient not started on HCG alone to see what his testicular response would be? By giving him exogenous testosterone, his gonadotropins will remain low and his spermatogenesis suppressed. In follow up, please describe more clearly the upgrading in his Tanner stage Discussion The second sentence of the discussion is much too strong. To this point, the authors have provided no compelling evidence of the relationship between chronic Ritalin use and reproductive function. Only midway through the discussion do the authors describe this more as an association than a causal mechanism. Clarify at the outset that there is no human data suggesting this relationship currently available. For the rat studies, did these rats have exposure prior to adolescence and signs of maturation? Only in this way can the rats possibly be compared to this human and serve as a more direct causal possibility. Reference 10, as the only human study cited, should be explored more than the rat and monkey studies. It should probably also be described earlier in this case report. The authors should state whether or not there is data from the methylphenidate approval trials that demonstrates suggestion of delayed puberty or delayed development among prepubertal boys taking this medication. In the concluding paragraph, the authors again should consider tempering their comments, that this is at most an association and not a direct causal relationship. 