This paper compared 50 genes, obtained from 12 Campylobacter genomes, to test two hypotheses. I rephrase them for clarity here as: (1) Does GC content provide evidence of recombination events, and can this shed light on the history of recombinational events in the Campylobacter genome? (2) Are housekeeping genes more prone for recombination than informational genes in Campylobacter ? From the 'Results and discussion' section it is not clear whether the authors have confirmed or rejected these hypotheses. I have difficulties with both of these hypotheses. My concerns with the first hypothesis are the following: The authors consider only recombination between donor DNA with a higher GC-content into an AT-rich Campylobacter genome. They ignore that the vast majority of recombination cab occur within a Campylobacter species, or, to a lesser extent, between closely related species ( C. jejuni and C. coli ), in which case there is no base composition difference between donor and acceptor and you wouldn't see amelioration of GC content. The 'recombination' that the authors have identified and use in their analysis (they even mention recombination sites although it is unclear how these were identified) have more likely taken place between alleles of different Campylobacter clones than between genes of different species. My concern with the second hypothesis is that there is no fundamental genetic or physiological difference between 'housekeeping genes' and 'informational genes'. It is a man-made division only, while the cell just maintains its physiology by means of all these proteins. The only relevant distinction here is whether a gene product is active as a sole contributor to a process (an enzyme, say, that works on a single substrate-to-product conversion without interaction with other factors) or whether a gene product acts in close contact with many other gene products (a ribosomal protein, say). The latter are constrained in mutation, but only for non-synonymous mutations. The authors ignore codon usage effects, expression levels (highly expressed genes employ different codons), and compositional constraints of proteins that are reflected by their codons and thus affect the gene's GC content. A recent paper studied evolution in the complete core genome of 27 Campylobacter genomes. It covered more than 1100 genes and employed various statistical methods. That paper reported that there was NO division in evolutionary signature between informational versus housekeeping genes (Snipen et al ., (2012) Analysis of evolutionary patterns of genes in Campylobacter jejuni and C. coli . Microb. Inform. Expt . 2 :8).