The paper on Gaspar Strait coral reef degradation indicates possible threats consisting of tin mining, tourism activities and destructive fisheries but it is not clear how the survey results correspond with the conclusions. I have some comments that may help the authors to clarify their findings: If tin mining has existed in the research area since 1850, how can the effects of destructive fisheries and tourism be recognized as important threats? We may assume that the coral reefs here have been threatened for many years. The data were obtained per location from only one 30-m line transect at 5-7 m depth. This is very little and does not tell much about the condition of the reefs over their whole depth profile. Perhaps the authors can explain how the transects could be considered representative for the localities? A total of 89 species were recorded but there is no information about these species. It is unclear what the meaning of "Poritiid group" and "Faviid group" is, since these are not proper taxonomic units and they do not correspond with life forms. The same counts for "Agariciid, Pectiniid, Montiporiid, Poritiid corals", which does not explain whether this concerns genera or families. How was it determined that changes between 2010, 2014 and 2016 were not significant after 2005-2010? This is perhaps possible if the data were taken in the same way from the exact same spots but the differences are only based on overall conclusions. Sediments can be a natural component of reefs. So, if sediment was found in a transect, this does not necessarily imply that there is a threat. How should tourism activities have positive impact on the reefs? Tourism does not automatically result in awareness and conservation. The authors found "at least two individual COTS" around the transects. Why is it not clear how many individuals were counted? Such a low number does not seem to be threatening. The authors mention the occurrence of coral diseases reported from a previous survey in Bangka but do not mention any disease found in their own transects. How does this relate to the present results? Conclusion - what kind of management do the authors propose? 