The paper of Browning proposes a two-step solution to solve problems related to antibody performance in biomedical research. The author proposes that antibody variability must be fixed first (for instance, by pooling positive serum from multiple animals). Once this issue has been addressed, validation will become more straightforward and will progress with time. This well-written opinion article is timely and addresses an important issue that has been the focus of intense discussion in recent years. There are only a few issues for the authors consideration: Although it is clear what the author means by the two-step solution, relatively little detail is given regarding the issue antibody validation. A more detailed discussion of this issue is warranted. For instance, what is the authors take on the approach proposed by Bordeaux et al. (Biotechniques. 2010 Mar;48(3):197-209. doi: 10.2144/000113382). It is stated that antibody validation will essentially be accomplished as more and more work is done with the antibody. However, there are many factors that limit the access of this information to both suppliers and users. If the antibody does not work on a particular application, the researcher often discards it without reporting any problems in any form. Perhaps being more aggressive about requesting feedback and making sure that all validation information is included in technical data sheets could contribute to solve the problem; the quality of the information included in some web sites and technical sheets is not particularly impressive. Encouraging users to submit information to sites such as antibodypedia.com or histoneantibodies.com could also be a step forward. Several companies provide trial size antibodies that allow the users to test them in a particular application in exchange for feedback. What are the authors thoughts on how the task of antibody validation be distributed between vendors and users? Regarding reporting of antibody use, in addition to reporting catalog numbers, it seems as if it would be crucial to report lot numbers as well. What is the authors take on the proposal that an independent body be recruited (e.g., National Institute of Standards) to oversee an antibody certification program? The abstract does not explicitly define the two-step solution. 