Dear authors, I was pleased to review your paper that describes a case-control study in Thailand including 233 incident lung cancer cases and 458 controls focusing on exposures to pesticides. Please find enclosed my comments for your consideration. In the: Introduction , first paragraph, I think you mean “ Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons”? I would not call a paper from 1999 “Recent studies…..” because it’s 20 years old. Methods , first paragraph, it’s a case-control study, not a case-control led study; it would be good to include a few more details such as any time limit for having resided in the province?; from where did the TCB receive cases?; were the diagnosis confirmed by some diagnostic tool? Please clarify if the 299 were contacted and 229 accepted, or if only 229 were contacted and accepted. I would be surprised if the latter, and wonder why the other were not contacted. We also wish to know the “participation rate” among the control subjects. Neighbours are not a random sample it’s a convenience sample. If you mean that the interviewer randomly selected control subjects among all neighbours you need to explain how this was done, e.g. within a distance from the house or “snowball” technique. Why do you adjust for farming (yes/no)? Please explain your rational. It does not make sense to me. Questionnaire , the English questionnaire does not indicate that the number of days of pesticide use is per year, so it seems strange that lifetime exposure is calculated by multiplying years with days. Please also clarify if “exposure” refers to “personally mix or apply pesticides” only, or if it also includes working in the fields? Provide more details regarding the data collection e.g. were the interviewers employed for the study full-time, or were they students?, were there any quality control measures implemented, e.g. double interviews of a proportion of subjects, were the interviewers interviewing both cases and controls? Results , it is very strange that there is not difference between cases and controls regarding smoking, if you have an explanation for this please discuss it later. Discussion , I don’t think that “the association were closer for herbicides and insecticides”, possibly “stronger” or “more pronounced”, and I prefer “more days” rather than “higher days”. Among the limitations I think there is more to information bias, e.g. it is commonly difficult to assess exposure to specific chemicals because people don’t know the names or don’t recognize exposure. I must admit that I get suspicious that there are no missing in the data and no category for “don’t know” in the questionnaire. I would add potential selection bias to the discussion; although we don’t really know the participation rate among controls or how neighbours were selected, they are generally not an ideal control population. Disclaimer: Where authors/reviewers are identified as personnel of the International Agency for Research on Cancer / World Health Organization, the authors/reviewers alone are responsible for the views expressed in this article and they do not necessarily represent the decisions, policy or views of the International Agency for Research on Cancer / World Health Organization 