 Overall: Good example of intersectoral engagement and innovation in vector surveillance. The ovillanta design, which the authors show to be a highly sensitive vector monitoring tool, is most important element of this publication. The paper needs to be strengthened through greater review of the literature in the introduction and discussion, clarifying research methods especially social science methods, and clarifying the data shown in the figures. The title is misleading (and some of the text), because the authors do not demonstrate a reduction in Ae. aegypti abundance. Introduction Paragraph 3. “The rapid spread of Ae. aegypti mosquitoes… began around 2000.” I’m not sure that this is correct. I believe that Aedes reinvaded the Americas in the 1970s-80s, and dengue reemerged and spread through the region in the 90s and 2000s. Please check other references. Paragraph 4. Strengthen the discussion of Aedes surveillance tools. I suggest discussing currently available ae aegypti surveillance techniques, the role of surveillance in disease control, and limitations of current techniques. Are you comparing stationary vector surveillance/monitoring tools, vector control tools, or integrated surveillance and vector control tools? Traditional ovitraps, human landing catches, and bg sentinel traps all have slightly different objectives. Be sure to clarify this. I would suggest refocusing on the role of ovitraps, and conducting a more comprehensive literature review of different ovitraps currently on the market, their limitations and strengths. I suggest incorporating the paragraph about filtration and recycling into the subsequent paragraph so it is easier for the reader to understand that the current study is based on prior well-developed studies conducted in Canada. This will help with the flow of the intro. How did you determine the most attracting solution? Lab based experiments? Please explain or cite prior studies. In the introduction, please clarify the objectives of the study, the study design, and the study endpoints (e.g., increased education of health workers, number of Ae. aegypti eggs in XX communities). Methods I was a bit confused by the study design. Consider creating a diagram or map that depicts the study design. Why were standard ovitraps used in the intervention community? Egg counts are an indirect measure of adult female mosquito abundance (true entomological risk). Egg counts are affected by the number of alternative breeding sites in the environment. Did you account for other factors that could affect egg counts during the study period, such as differences in household characteristics between the treatment and control sites, elimination of containers or other vector control interventions? Overall the social science research methods and results lack sufficient detail determine the validity of the results. Three interviews is a small sample size. How do you know these are representative? Given the small number of informants, this information could also be included as part of the local context in the discussion section instead of presented as a result. How did you analyze the qualitative data from focus groups and interviews? What social science research methods were used to analyze the transcribed texts? Were the texts coded? Who did the coding? What software was used? Please include appropriate description of the methods and references. Please provide more detail regarding the entomological surveys. Did you empty and collect and count all larvae/pupae from all containers? How were cisterns managed? Did you conduct the entomological surveys in the control neighborhoods to ensure that there were no differences between treatment and control sites? What dates/season did you conduct the surveys? The container positivity will vary greatly by season. Results Can you summarize the results of the training evaluation survey in a table? Strongly recommend showing summary statistics (maybe from the national census if not available from study households?) to compare the characteristics of the the treatment and control communities or households, to show that there were no major differences in housing conditions, demographics, access to piped water, etc. which could influence differences in the egg count data. In my experience, subtle differences in access to piped water can create completely different vector population dynamics even within the same city. Fig 2, left panel. This figure is supposed to show monthly egg counts by site (treatment and control), but the legend indicates trap types rather than site types. This is confusing since both standard ovitraps and ovillantas were used in the intervention site. Fig 2, right panel. This figure is supposed to show monthly egg counts by site and by type of trap, but there are 2 lines on the figure rather than 4. Please clarify. Fig 3. Why did you fit a linear curve? There appears to be seasonality in the data, indicating a nonlinear seasonal dynamic. Please produce publication quality graphics, with consistent formatting and axes (e.g., epi weeks versus months) The investigators report that more eggs were collected from the intervention site with ovillantas. This clearly shows that ovillantas are a more sensitive surveillance tool. I think it is difficult to say whether they are more effective at reducing the mosquito population, unless you have other entomological indicators to show that the mosquito population was suppressed. Discussion The investigators indicate that the level of knowledge of community members about viral infections is low. Please show these results in the results section. Under study limitations, the major limitation (if the authors are claiming that the ovillanta is an effective vector control tool) is the lack of data on adult Aedes aegypti abundance or other entomological indicators. The investigators should broaden their discussion to discuss their findings in light of other studies published regarding community dengue perception, alternative ovitrap designs that have been published recently by R. Barrera and others, and the effectiveness of community participation in vector surveillance. The discussion and introduction could be strengthened by a deeper review of the literature. Other comments: Please include a map of your study site. The authors mention that they limited by lack of climate data. This information is available online. They could download the data and and plot temperature and rainfall with Figure 3, to explain the seasonality.