The report by McDonnell et al. aims to provide a summary of the Future of Research Postdoctoral Symposium that took place in October 2014. The work of this group is commendable, and has the potential to inform on-going policy debates about how to improve the research enterprise. The article has some interesting findings and recommendations. However, I feel there are two important issues that prevented me from accepting without reservation: focus and tone. 1. Focus. I found the manuscript, as written, very difficult to follow. My sense is that in an effort to be comprehensive, the focus became lost (as one who often writes long and unwieldy drafts, I have much sympathy). In my view, readability of the paper would be enhanced by organizing it in three sections: Context/Background. Here the authors can use data and other policy reports to describe some of the structural changes that have occurred in biomedicine in the past few years (e.g. stalled funding, growing number of trainees, etc.). They can then couple these changes with some of the issues that have resulted from this (e.g. an increased sense of competition to a level where its no longer helpful; the favoring of incremental science over exploration, etc.). From this point, they can say the purpose of this symposium: adding the voices of this groups of postdocs to the debate. Symposium. Clearly and concisely describe the symposium. List the four or five major goals/foci of the symposium (likely the workgroups). Then, for each, use a table to describe: 1. The central issue, 2. How postdocs describe the problem (only list the main points, and if possible include the percentages of postdocs conceptualizing the problem in that manner), and 3. The proposed solutions (with individual students, PIs/research groups, institutions, and funding agencies as their own column). Four charts would significantly enhance readability. All additional information can be put in the supplement. Summary recommendations. This could include a very brief nod to the media coverage (most of that should be in the supplement), the recommendations (currently the conclusions), and future recommendations. 2. Tone. The paper read as a policy report, editorial, and meeting minutes all as one. There are many points where the authors make declarative statements but dont offer any citations. Two examples of many include: Specifically, the hyper-competition that * we have all experienced * , which stunts scientific curiosity and productivity, breeds fabrication and carelessness in the publication of data, and leads to a waste of valuable resources and intellectual capital, must be alleviated. It is not clear that all have experienced this and would make these conclusions. The paragraph starting with this sentence: In spite of the number of years spent in pre- and postdoctoral training, * only a handful of scientists feel that they are adequately pre- pared for any job other than conducting research . * While career preparation is highly variable, it is an overstatement to say "only a handful feel prepared" for careers outside of research. The authors would be well served by making it clear when they are stating something that is a fact, versus when they are conveying the opinions of the participants. Additionally, sometimes the term is used, and its unclear who it is referring tothe papers authors, FOR Symposium attendees, the broader research community. Please be clear to whom you are referring. Finally, the manuscript has something that seemed to be a major contradiction. In the executive summary, the authors say their report represents a united voice of young biomedical scientists, conveying our concerns about the sustainability of the research enterprise and our hopes for change. However, on at least two occasions, they describe the challenge in reaching consensus among FOR Symposium participants Overall, the respondents concerns and criticisms centered on a few key themes; however, there was disagreement regarding which issues are most important to the future of groundbreaking and sustainable science. Participants also indicated that the workshops were more successful in generating multiple solutions than in finding unanimity. Even if there is not a uniform voice the symposium findings are still important. Dont feel the need to overstate conclusions. Again, I feel the work is important. I fully expect the authors will be able to address my comments, at which point I would enthusiastically approve it. 