“Chromas from chromatin: sonification of the epigenome” by Cittaro et al . deals with the transformation of ChiP-seq profiles into music. The authors transform BigWig files into notes by discretizing the logarithm of the signal intensity. Test individuals perceive the resulting music as more appealing than randomized controls. The authors explore the possibility to use the music to discern differentially expressed genes in two cell lines from unchanged ones. The classification accuracy is a little bit better than random guessing. They also use the similarity of the music to cluster genes. They claim that the clustering reveals genes with similar biological properties. They also show that the clustering is correlated to the gene expression level. I find the idea really interesting. It may help the vision impaired to gather information about ChIP-seq tracks or other quantitative vector like information. It may be used to train individuals to recognize certain epigenomic features, like promoters and enhancers. I find it not so surprising that the chromatin music is more appealing to test persons than randomized controls, because of the smoothness of the ChIP-seq profile data. Smoothness guaranties that subsequent notes are close by forming a more melodious line. Once randomized it results in random notes, which may be far apart and are perceived by most as not so appealing. Thus, humans can distinguish between smooth signals and signals that change abruptly and perceive the former more appealing than the latter. But clearly there is information in the music that can be exploited by the human ear. The analyses about differential gene expression and gene clustering use the music as a feature in computer-aided classification tasks. These analyses show that there is some information in the music that a computer can recognize and use for classification. However, a base line using just the ChIP-seq profiles without turning them to music is missing. Without such a base line it remains hard to judge whether the reported results are meaningful or not. Moreover, I think that the classification results shown in Figure 3 are likely to reflect gene expression differences rather than gene function clustering. Are the p-values reported in Table 1 for a one- or two-sided test? I do not understand why cluster 2 is not different from all the others except cluster 1. I think the real potential in chromatin music is not so much in its use in machine learning approaches – it is much better suited for humans learning chromatin states and the like. Humans may be able to recognize patterns that a machine cannot. It would be really interesting to compare a human made chromatin segmentations using chromatin music with a segmentation generated from the ChIP-seq signals by a computer. Finally, the proposed tool can be used to reach out to the public and demonstrate ideas about epigenomic states etc. using an easily accessible medium such as music.