The channeling for controlling metabolic pathways as an original idea was introduced in 1987 by Professor Srere who suggested that “the intermediates are considered to be out of diffusion equilibrium with identical molecules in the bulk phase of the same compartment of the cell” in the case of multienzymes complexes 1 . Even in these years and afterwards a couple of papers and reviews were published related to the metabolism of different enzyme systems providing pro and contra data concerning the validity of the channeling mostly in in vitro systems and doubt its existence in living cells and organisms. Due to the contradictory data produced by the believers and unbelievers, a special issue of Journal of Theoretical Biology entitled "Physiological significance of intermediate channeling: Author`s response to commentaries” was published by the edition of Professor Cornish-Bowden (Ovdi J. (1991) J Theor Biol 152). From that time a number of related papers have been published, nevertheless, direct unambiguous in vivo evidence for the proof of the channeling is rare, if at all, in spite of the fact that in addition to the multifarious experimental studies experiment-based mathematical modeling was also developed that can be considered as the seed of the system biology discipline. The review by Zala et al. objects to timely summarize the data related to the potential advantage of nucleotide channeling in the energy consumption which is highly appreciated. It is, however, intriguing that the authors use the channeling term for nucleotide transferring reactions, presented by large number of examples from their own and other’s studies without mentioning the validation problem of the channeling as occurred in the case of metabolite channeling. If there are direct evidences for the function of ATP or GTP transfer in coupled reactions in vivo it should be presented in a more emphasized-mode. It would be supported since most of the evidences for existence of nucleotide channeling are based upon in vitro data obtained by using different systems and approaches. The presentation of a Table involving key parameters of the coupled systems such as organization levels, methods used for identification, consequences, references, remarks, could enormously help the readers. In addition, we would expect hypothesis for the situation which occur not rarely when the same enzyme is involved in both the metabolite and nucleotide channeling processes by interacting with distinct partners; what kind of mechanism can control this situation? A good example is the GAPDH, a multifunctional glycolytic enzyme. Only loose interaction between GAPDH and PGK was found by fluorescence resonance energy transfer and by co-immunoprecipitation in vivo (reference 32). By assuming effective intracellular association of these two glycolytic enzymes there is still an open question how this ATP module could interconnect with the ATP consuming partner? The review is solid, and the figures are well designed. The authors review many-many energy-consuming processes, sometimes those which are unrelated to the channeling issue, for example, the description of the dynamin system is too detailed. In fact, this section is suggested to be significantly reduced, and focus on the role of channeling effects in the cases of the isoforms. 