The paper addresses the very interesting topic of food borne diseases risks in developing countries. It presents an estimation of the prevalence of intestinal parasites among a specific exposed group in the food chain (the handlers). The literature is not enough recent. An effort could be made by the authors to search for some more recent studies on the same topic. The study needs further clarifications at the level of Methods(page 3): Using the term "a cross-sectional study" and indicating a period between October 2016 and April 2017 (6 months) is questionable. Can a background on the season(s)over the period be provided? Sampling and sample size (page 3) If it is the team itself that did all the examinations with the same 4 standardized laboratory methods applied to samples from the 3 indicated laboratories, then the calculated (expected) sample size should be presented first and then the strategy to reach the number from the 3 centers be presented. How to reach the sample size in a rigorous and balanced way between 3 targeted laboratories?; Are there any exclusion criteria? Was there a limit of days or weeks during which the number of handlers to enroll should be reached? How is the team alerted about a food handler coming to the screening of a laboratory?...If possible, more explanation on the selection process could be interesting. It is better to not present in the first sentence the effective sample size reached, but rather provide the number under Results Methods of samples examination After being presented all the 4 methods, the reader may expect a clear indication of what method has been found more appropriate for which result; Results Effectively more appropriate to indicate here the final number of handlers who successfully provided samples. A table could be helpful to present the major results from each method Please complete all the titles of figures and tables, to make sure that each title is self standing. Example: Figure 2 should better read like this: "Samples of food handlers distribution according to age in Khartoum, (October 2016 - April 2017)". Please do this for all titles More specifically for Figure 6 (page 7), maybe helpful to recall in the title the methods used for detecting these parasites. Figure 7: Not very much sure that this is reflecting the real percentage of infection among the different nationalities. If the figure is about the distribution of the total number of cases between the different nationalities, it does not make much sense as the Sudanese group is far much larger; it would be much more interesting to present the % among the same group (number of cases of the group/total number of the group); with this the figure could be completely something else; please check this; maybe a statistician can assist also on this Discussion The first sentence is a little bit confusing. Maybe "We presented a descriptive cross sectional study ..." And therefore you should avoid a repetition of "study" in the sentence. Please rework this sentence. The second sentence is also with an error about dates; under Methods it was stated between October 2016 and April 2017,here it is now stated "... between years 2015 and 2018". Please correct or clarify. "This study is subject to several limitations". Where are they presented? Please state them clearly. "gastrointestinal parasitic infections ..." this sentence is starting without a capital letter and it is seems completely disconnected from the sentences above. please check this A clear limitations paragraph is needed Conclusion A clear conclusion paragraph is needed. English There are a few grammatical corrections needed, and an additional careful reading may be helpful 