The authors report extensive computations of absolute chemical potentials to predict the solubility of the drug, acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin), using molecular dynamics simulations. The manuscript is clearly written, providing the relevant background for understanding their results, a non-trivial task for this subject matter. A non-expert in the field of statistical mechanics should have little trouble reading this paper due to such careful and effective writing. In addition, figures such as Figure 1 are well constructed and greatly aid in the understanding of the relevant theory. While the results are not ideal, the challenges and limitations that have been revealed are informative and important for moving forward in the field of drug discovery. This manuscript would be of broad interest to life scientists. I recommend indexing of this manuscript in F1000Research . I have only a few comments for minor revisions: Introduction section: This section could be re-framed to accentuate the positive, informative aspects of this manuscript’s results. For instance, it would be worth mentioning the fact that the new thermodynamic cycle employed in this study was able to enhance solubility calculations of the methanol system, an important feature of this manuscript that should be highlighted early on. In addition, the example of Norvir in the first paragraph could be shortened considerably, and similar shortening of the Introduction could be more effective in presenting the broader impacts of this study. Theory section: This section would benefit from a clear definition of an Einstein crystal for life scientists at the very beginning. Also important would be to include early in the Theory section explanations of the ECM and EMM cycles and logically structuring the rest of the section from there, including more fundamental equations as needed. Also, it is not clear in equation (5) what is meant by averaging over the configurations of the initial state. Please clarify. Distinctives of this Work section: It would be beneficial to remind the reader of the unique aspects of the EMM method over ECM since the implementation of this method is the novel in the manuscript. Methods section, third paragraph: It was not clear to this reader which temperatures were used for the liquid simulations. Please clearly mention the temperatures. If the simulations were run at 4 K, then the authors should comment on the accuracy of the TIP3P water model at this very low temperature. Discussion section, second to last paragraph: The authors mention that “with better force fields, perhaps accuracy could be improved.” Regarding “better force fields”, it would be worth mentioning two recent fixed-charge force fields, AMBER ff15ipq and AMBER ff15fb, that have been developed using sweeping optimizations of hundreds of parameters simultaneously using automated tools and could be worth considering before using more expensive polarizable force fields such as AMOEBA. 