This is a well written paper describing the effects (or lack thereof) of rTMS over 5 weeks in wild-type and ephrin-a2 knockout (KO) mice. The data are clearly presented in a usable format and are discussed appropriately. The initial referee Antoni Valero-Cabre, who is an expert in TMS and neuro-stimulation, has already extensively covered the key points, both positive and negative. I am therefore only going to make a few additional comments. The title and abstract should ideally reflect the findings of the study more precisely, for example: ‘Long-term delivery of pulsed magnetic fields does not alter visual discrimination learning or dendritic spine density in mouse CA1 pyramidal or dentate gyrus neurons’. The nature of such negative findings means that the authors cannot rule out potential significant effects of this rTMS protocol on other learning tasks or other classes of neurons/dendrites in the mouse hippocampus. Furthermore, the abstract should mention that they were adult mice and the background strain used was C57Bl/6J, as it is possible that different aged mice and/or a different genetic strain of mice might respond differently to the same rTMS protocol. One concern regarding the methods and design is that the authors appear to have used a separate wild-type mouse colony and compared them to ephrin-a2 KO mice inbred via a backcrossed colony. I strongly feel that all such experiments should always involve wild-type littermates randomised from age-matched litters to control for both genetic (e.g. sub-strain and genetic drift) and epigenetic differences between different colonies. This is particularly important for behavioural experiments where even subtle genetic and epigenetic differences can often have significant impacts. The authors report no significant gene effects, and it is therefore not a major confound in this case, however if randomised littermates were not used (as the methods imply) this should be noted. The discussion and conclusions are balanced. However, it might be worth noting that an extensive battery of behavioural tests (for example including sensory, cognitive, affective and motor protocols) on wild-type mice would be worth pursuing to assess whether this rTMS protocol (or others with different spatial and temporal specificities) has any effects on brain function analogous to human studies. If any positive results were found, then cellular, physiological and molecular follow-up studies could be targeted towards understand specific cognitive/behavioural effects of rTMS (thus nicely complementing human studies). If such comprehensive TMS animal studies are done but still show inconsistencies with matching human TMS studies then one possibility is that the animal TMS needs to better match the exact spatial, temporal and biophysical aspects of human TMS. For example, the human brain is much larger, the skull much thicker and the spatial extent and physical effects of a given TMS coil are no doubt difficult to match. The need to further improve such ‘construct validity’ for animal TMS may also be worthy of further discussion.