In this 6-weeks observational study, self-reported stick-by-stick consumption of IQOS was assessed and potential predictors of product adoption identified. Understanding predictors of e-cig/THP adoption is important as it may lead to improved smoking cessation/reduction rates. I have the following comments: Major Comments Recruiting method is a potential (and probable) source of bias. As noted by the Authors, market panel members are not a representative sample of the population of US smokers. The participant remuneration was significantly high ($440); this - together with the fact that IQOS and consumables were given for free - would encourage participation and spin study findings. All the above casts doubts on whether the study is really conducted under real-world setting conditions and jeopardize the main goal of the study, which was to describe IQOS adoption in a real-world setting. The study should be better reported. No report of refusal to participate. No report of partial compliance with diary reporting. No report of the number non-compliant with interview schedule. No report of the number not turning in study materials (used for measurement, so significant). The only report is the number of participants who made no diary entries, and that alone is significant as 28% made no entries. If the authors conducted imputations for missing data (and certainly there were some missing data points!) this should be reported. I have concerns about the Analyses. E-cig users made up 12 of the 141 adopters, but represented only 5.4% of the population - clearly skewing the results. E-cig use should have been analyzed as a confounder. The combined use categories make little sense to me. The effectiveness for Hispanics/Latinos barely reached significance. Wide CIs indicate that there are insufficient numbers for subgroup analysis. Can you clarify which version of the product was provided in this study; as far as I am aware the manufacturer has rolled out the third generation/evolution of IQOS. This is important for the interpretation of study findings (I was told that newer generations perform substantially better than earlier generations). Findings are products specific. It would have been interesting to have another comparator (e-cigs?) in the study in order to have a better understanding in terms of predictors of adoption of these new technologies. This should be discussed. There’s lack of information about complete abstinence from tobacco cigarettes and this should be provided. Minor Comments Introduction, Page 3. “ These findings suggest that the large majority of IQOS users in Japan switched from cigarettes to IQOS and that there is minimal uptake from nonsmokers”. Please qualify these statements with appropriate numbers/percentages (and references). The authors state that the study supplied a hotline for information and to collect reports of adverse effects. How many calls did the hotline receive? What adverse effects were reported? This is critical information and should be provided in the paper. Study design. Is there a psychological behavioural pharmacological theory/rationale for the chosen length of study periods (i.e. 1 week for baseline period; 6 weeks for observation period)? I note that a validated psycho-diagnostic tool was used to measure participants’ intention to quit. Please specify which one. More information on the structure and validity of the questionnaires used are need and the questionnaires should be included in the appendix. It would have been equally important to evaluate the construct of the intention to switch to low-risk products. An important predictor for IQOS adoption could have been the participants own cigarette brand. I was sorry to see in the analysis that heavy smokers (21+/day) were less likely to adopt than light smokers. This may reflect high level of inefficiency of (currently marketed) IQOS to adequately reproduce the experience in cigarette smoking. This should be discussed. 