The paper looks at the interaction of natural GAG, such as HA and CS, with BSA as model protein. Overall the data is clear but some improvements can be made. Are the particles formed with CS/BSA hard particles or nano, microgels? You can do AFM to check this, by measuring the swelling behavior in media and determining the Young's modulus. For the HA/BSA interaction, gels are formed. Here more analysis can be done. The rheometer data only shows one data point. The G' for multiple gels can be measured to do statistics. Ideally these measurements should also be compared with media as the salts will affect the mechanical properties of the gel. Also, the gels seem to be very stiff for these natural materials. You decrease the concentrations to check whether you can vary the stiffness. Nervous tissue is usually in the range below 1 kPa. The authors mention the gel is shear thinning but this is not proven with rheology. Even a video of the gel would be helpful to have an idea about its properties, like transparency, shear thinning properties via pipetting, and gelation. In addition, even though SEM may cause some artifacts, it will still give you an idea about the internal structure of these gels compared to other gels reported in the literature. In Figure 3C, there is not legend and unclear what the different conditions are. For Figure 3D, as you have a gel, how can you also have individual particles for DLS measurements? Please make a note about this in the text. Figure 4: As Rhodamine is fluorescent, you can show fluorescent images to demonstrate the diffusion of the molecule into the gel. Some minor comments to improve the text: Abstract: Self-assembly HA has been crosslinked covalently via other mechanisms than photo-catalyzed 1 , 2 , 3 . Introduction: The authors mention that HA has been made into many covalently modified derivatives. Do they mean that functional groups were covalently bound to the HA backbone to make derivatives, or that functionalized HA can covalently bind to other molecules to form drug delivery and TE materials. This is repetitive with a sentence later in the intro: 'HA is often chemically modified…….' Methods: The GAG binding pocket of BSA is not shown in Figure 1B. BSA should only be written full once, after that just use the abbreviation. 