This opinion article summarizes the activities, both existing and planned, of the 3D-Bioinfo Community within the ELIXIR biological data infrastructure project in Europe. As such, it represents a useful statement of purpose that can be used to guide the efforts of the many participating groups and in the future as a potential means of evaluating the success of those efforts. The first section of this article (“Major European contributions in structural bioinformatics”) describes the historical impact of European research groups in the field of structural bioinformatics. These contributions are extensive and indisputable but I am not sure that most scientists will find it very interesting. I suppose it is necessary for European funding bodies to hear it, and in the United States we often find ourselves doing the same thing while trying to secure funding for bioinformatics infrastructure like the PDB from the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation. Perhaps this section could be shortened, or it could briefly mention parallel developments in other parts of the world. For instance, Helen Berman’s efforts in transforming and remediating the PDB into a modern bioinformatics infrastructure resource at Rutgers University starting in 1998 and the establishment of the wwPDB in 2003 with PDBe and PDBj deserve some comment. The second section briefly describes “Major challenges that 3D-Bioinfo will help to address” including proteome-wide protein structure prediction, establishing benchmarks and confidence assessments for structure prediction accuracy, evaluating the impact of sequence variants on protein function and disease, improvements in structure determination by cryo-EM, SAXS, integrative modeling, and other methods that depend on the appropriate use of high-resolution structural data from crystallography, and the prediction of protein-ligand interactions. All of these require significant infrastructure and integration and interoperability of tools and data, and 3D-Bioinfo is well placed to operate in this sphere. All of these make sense, even if they are fairly obvious. It may be an unpopular opinion, but I don’t think protein structure prediction on the proteome scale is such a worthwhile goal, except for organisms that are of significant experimental interest. Because we can make models of millions of proteins from 100s or 1000s of organisms, doesn’t mean we should. Most of that data would be unused. The fact that it “remains computationally expensive to build 3D models on a proteome-wide scale” as the article states is not really an issue. The more important issue is making biologically relevant models of proteins – as homo- and heterooligomeric complexes, interacting with ligands and nucleic acids, and in different functional states (e.g., the active and several inactive conformations of kinases). One challenge that was left out is the validation of experimental structures at the atom/residue level (amino acids, nucleic acid bases, and ligands), and more importantly, their re-refinement with new methods as they are developed. I am a fan of two tools developed by some of the authors on this paper, EDIA for evaluating electron density in X-ray crystal structures on an atom-by-atom basis, and the PDB-REDO database of re-refined crystal structures. The next section is a general statement of the goals of 3D-Bioinfo: 1) improved interoperable data standards 2) planning for sustainability and integration of data resources; 3) standards, benchmarking, and validation of prediction tools; 4) access to high compute facilities; 5) integration of structural data with other biological data and databases; and 6) training and outreach in bioinformatics. These are all very worthy, if rather broad and general goals. The next section on “Links between 3D-Bioinfo and the wider European research environment” reads more like a grant progress report and is probably of little interest to the general reader, especially the section on the launch meeting, which could be deleted. This section mentions collaboration with the Protein Structure Initiative (PSI) by some of the current 3D-Bioinfo participants, but the PSI was disbanded in 2015 and this reference should be removed. This section mentions Instruct-ERIC, and it would be helpful to describe what are the similarities and differences in the goals of 3D-Bioinfo and Instruct-ERIC, which may not be that familiar to non-European structural biologists. Instruct-ERIC is more focused on experimental technologies. Finally, we get to the meat of the matter – the four “Activity” areas: I. Infrastructure for FAIR structural and functional annotations; II. Open resources for sharing, integrating and benchmarking software tools for modelling the proteome in 3D; III. Protein-ligand interactions; IV: Tools to describe, analyze, annotate, and predict nucleic acid structures. (Full disclosure: I am a participant in Activity II). The first activity (I) is to improve annotations of protein structures, in particular to bring 3rd party annotation resources into the PDBe-KB (knowledge-base) via a standard data exchange format (e.g., json-based formats). These will include functional site annotations, predicted structures, and impact of disease-associated variants on structure. This is appealing to me, since my group generates these kinds of annotations, for example on antibodies, kinases, and protein-protein interactions. Access to these annotations via the PDB would greatly increase the impact of such resources and the depth of annotation of PDB structures. One example that is already in practice is the import of QSBIO and 3Dcomplex annotations for protein assemblies of X-ray structures in the PDB. Activity II is focused on integrating and benchmarking software for modeling proteins in 3D, including in particular modeling or annotating protein assemblies and conformational flexibility. This aspect of 3D-Bioinfo will include integration of CAMEO and CAPRI, both of which assess structure predictions of proteins or protein complexes, into OpenEBench, which is also part of ELIXIR. It will also involve developing benchmarks for the prediction of the structures of protein assemblies (e.g. for benchmarking docking calculations) and providing a portal for community-derived benchmarks. While there are many such benchmarks, they are not fully integrated into one resource which will likely be productive in the way that CAMEO, CAPRI, and CASP have been. This section could use a more succinct statement of what is missing in existing benchmarks and what 3D-Bioinfo would do to fill the gaps. Activity III is focused on developing and disseminating benchmarks for modeling protein-ligand complexes, including peptides and macrocyclic compounds, and their affinities. The inclusion of experimentally determined non-active compounds (for the construction of negative data sets) is an important suggestion in the paper. Another goal is to “open the world of structure-based modeling to the broader science community.” Worthy, but easier said than done, and it is not clear what this would look like exactly. Activity IV is focused on refinement of experimental structures, structural bioinformatics, structure prediction, and benchmarking studies of nucleic acid structures, which, as the authors point out, lag behind comparable efforts on proteins. As with the other Activities, the efforts will be on establishing benchmarks, collecting software tools, and enhancing interoperability. The authors explicitly propose bringing additional research groups outside of 3D-Bioinfo into Activity IV, presumably including those outside of Europe, which would greatly strengthen all of the activities of 3D-Bioinfo. The paper concludes with a discussion of further interactions of 3D-Bioinfo with other research communities including: (1) ELIXIR “platforms” on Interoperability, Data, Tools, Compute, and Training; (2) European bioinformatics infrastructure initiatives such as those on cheminformatics, systems biology, and intrinsically disordered proteins; (3) connections with industry; and (4) global initiatives. The last of these is given rather short shrift, considering that the efforts of a European 3D-Bioinfo project will not succeed if they don’t include input and adoption by research groups worldwide. In particular, it is surprising not to see any discussion of interactions with the RCSB or PDBj, which are after all components of the World-Wide PDB (wwPDB), along with PDBe. Very minor: Figure 2: typo, “Uniport” -- “Uniprot” p. 14: “EMBO courses on Integrative of Biomolecular Complexes” -- “EMBO courses on Integrative Modeling of Biomolecular Complexes” 