Scrofuloderma itself is not uncommon in countries endemic for TB. The main reason for the presentation of the case is the multiplicity of abscesses, a rare presentation of the scrofuloderma. Some sentences need to be better built and emphasize this point: “a type of cutaneous TB presenting with solitary or few cold abscesses and commonly affecting the supraclavicular region, axilla, and the cervical region 6 . Here, we describe a case of scrofuloderma with an uncommon presentation (presenting ) with many cutaneous lesions at the same time, which were culture negative for TB 7 ." The authors contradict themselves when writing in the introduction “Cutaneous TB most commonly presents as Tuberculosis cutis colliquativa (also known as scrofuloderma), a type of cutaneous TB presenting with cold abscesses and commonly affecting the supraclavicular region” and then in the discussion “Cutaneous TB rarely involves the region of head and neck, especially lymph nodes, larynx, oropharynx, salivary glands, nose, ear, skin, and paranasal sinuses”. These sentences should be rewritten or remove the phrase from the discussion. Rewrite the phrase "Our case illustrates that scrofuloderma, although a rare disease with a wide spectrum of cutaneous lesions and higher rates of false negative investigations, should still be considered in differential diagnosis of cold abscesses and nodules, especially of the head and neck region…” There is no “wide spectrum of cutaneous lesions” but rather different locations of lesions, some rare as the lesion of the chest and foot. Clarify the phrase “After GeneXpert, HIV serology, and fungal stain were performed, cutaneous tuberculosis (scrofuloderma) was the final diagnosis and anti-tuberculous therapy was started." Did you investigate HIV, fungus only after the TB diagnosis? There was no emphasis in the text that HIV serology was negative. The following phrases should be deleted from the text: “Cutaneous TB can present in a number of ways clinically, during histopathology as well as in treatment response, making it difficult to diagnose. These cases should be recognized early for timely and accurate management 4,5 ". “Lupus vulgaris (LV) is another less common manifestation of TB 7 ”. “After consulting the Dermatological Department, Lupus vulgaris was also ruled out.“ “Moreover, there was no reason to identify the patient as immunocompromised.” “Some rarer ones include inguinal scrofuloderma, ulcerative type of LV, and acute military cutaneous TB3 . Cutaneous TB is usually confined to the skin but can be multifocal 8 ”. 