The manuscript entitled “Evolutionary relations and population differentiation of Acipenser gueldenstaedtii Brandt, Acipenser persicus Borodin, and Acipenser baerii Brandt” by Alexey Sergeev describes the relationship between mitochondrial genotypes of four closely related sturgeon species by using the amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFPL) method. As a result, an analog of a phylogenetic tree is constructed, one in which the species paradoxically cluster by the habitat ( A. gueldenstaedtii from the Caspian Sea is more closely related to A. persicus from the Southern Caspian Sea rather than to A. gueldenstaedtii from the Azov Sea). Generally, the experiment is carried out at a good level and the findings are sufficiently novel. My main criticism is that it is not quite clear to what extent the AFPL method reflects the actual phylogenetic distance between species and that only the mitochondrial genome was interrogated. Generally, the reader has to get an idea of the evolutionary similarity between species by looking at the similarity of patterns in the AFPL profiles. I think the paper can be accepted for indexing if the author explains the caveats and limitations related to this method somewhere in the introduction. Otherwise the readership might be mislead by the dendrogram and the phylogeny reported by the author. Currently I have very cosmetic comments which are outlined below. Abstract: According to previous studies, ‘baerii-like’ mitotypes = mitochondrial genotypes -- the readership might be unfamiliar with this term The amplified fragment length polymorphism (method) = The amplified fragment length polymorphism method (AFLP) -- the abbreviation must cited in the abstract next to full size sentence, since it appears later without reference Persian sturgeons from the South Caspian Sea, Russian sturgeons from the Caspian Sea and the Sea of Azov, and Siberian sturgeons from the Ob’ River, which are close to these - which these? Change 'these' to 'the latter two' - two species, but are also clearly morphologically and genetically distinct from them. Main text has to be checked carefully with a native English speaker for word usage.