 Comments: This is an important article in the field of sexual and reproductive health research, especially on sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and AIDs. This study intended to document the health seeking behaviours including barriers in health seeking and access to SRH information among young key populations, eg., female sex workers (FSWs), men having sex with men (MSMs) who were 15 to 24 years old in two cities of Myanmar. Following clarifications are needed on this script: General observations: Need a clear operational definition of reproductive health (RH) and services? The author only described about STI and HIV. There are other RH problems of FSWs, such as-unintended pregnancies or childbirth, abortion etc. Did the authors exclude these RH problems from their study? Need a clear definition of unmet needs in seeking health information. How did they calculate unmet need of seeking health information? Need separately discuss about qualitative and quantitative data collection methods in the methodology. Need one paragraph conclusion at the end of this script. At current state, it is finished with limitations following recommendations without a conclusion. Specific observations: Abstract: Background: Please, use full abbreviation at first once before you use short term like sexually transmitted infections (STIs), reproductive health (RH) etc. Methods: What is the study period? How many face to face interviews, in-depth interviews and key informant interviews were conducted? What is the main outcome variable? Introduction: What is the proportion of young key infected populations in Myanmar? If this information is not available, what proportion key infected populations of total population were reported in most recent national census or survey? Methods: Operational definition: As mentioned earlier, please, define RH seeking behaviour Variables: You have only three outcome variables which are 1) ever receive HIV testing 2) STI treatment 3) Visit to DIC. But you have an objective to determine in seeking health information, therefore, you should have one variable “access to SRH information or seeking health information”. Sampling: What is the reason of choosing purposive sampling? How sample size of qualitative interviews (eg., in-depth interviews and key informant interviews) were determined? As mention earlier, please describe separately and clearly each method of data collection including sampling, sample size, development of questionnaires/ qualitative guidelines, data collection procedure Data analysis: Please, describe details of qualitative data analysis. Ethical consideration: Were verbal or written informed consents taken? What measures were taken to take consents from participants who were aged below 18 years old? Results: You just showed reported barriers in seeking STI/HIV information in Figure 2. Before that, did you measure what proportion of participants accessed to STI/HIV information? Table 4: “No or limited time to access health services”- this statement is not clear. Does it mean that YFSW do not have time or have limited time to access health services? If it is so, do you discuss this point how policy makers or health programme can overcome this problem? Table 4: “Reluctance in asking health information”- same comment above that this statement is not clear. Does it mean that YFSW kept reluctance in asking health information to healthcare providers? If it is so, do you discuss this point how policy makers or health programme can overcome this problem? Discussion: Last sentence of 2 nd paragraph: “In the current study, although the self-reported testing rates were high, we did not ask about the quality of testing services and did not verify these rates by other methods.”- do you please, justify why you did not take measures on quality and verification of self-reported testing services? How this limitation can be overcome in your study? Please, include a concluding paragraph. 