This systematic review is a companion to the 2018 Cochrane review of strategies to improve recruitment to clinical trials. Unlike the 2018 review, which included only randomised evaluations of strategies, this review includes only non-randomised evaluations. Given the 2018 review found that few recruitment strategies were supported by good quality evidence, this new review had the potential to build on the limited evidence base for trialists seeking strategies to improve their trial’s recruitment. The authors faced the challenge of synthesizing a large number of diverse evaluations and so the resulting synthesis is wide-ranging and necessarily high-level. The authors found the included studies of insufficient quality to allow for pooling of data and, as they point out, this limits the usefulness of this review in guiding trialists to select promising recruitment strategies. They mentioned in the conclusion that some interventions showed promise but it was unclear to me which specific interventions these were. This would be useful information to guide future research. The large number of retrospective, comparative “yield” studies included in the review is perhaps unsurprising given that many evaluations were seeking to compare strategies to invite people to take part in trials. The authors criticize these studies for reporting the numerator but not the denominator in such comparisons, for blurring lines between interventions/comparators and for lack of forward planning when designing evaluations. However, these limitations seem to reflect the real-world challenges of implementing such strategies. Even with forward planning, there seems to be no way to calculate the denominator for strategies like media outreach and flyers, and there may be few practical ways to prevent participants from being exposed to multiple strategies without causing potential harm to the host trial recruitment. Did the authors feel there was any way that such evaluations could be of value outside the trial in which they were implemented? The authors did suggest that recruitment evaluations would be of greater value if they reported their interventions more clearly and completely, using the TIDieR checklist. This seems like a practical suggestion and I hope it will be widely taken up. I found this review a thought-provoking but sobering read. The fact that such a large-scale, rigorously-conducted review resulted in not a single recommendation of a strategy to improve recruitment should be a wake-up call to all of us researching in this area. 