I have reviewed the revised version of the manuscript, which is now titled “Assessment of performance of Saudi children with learning disabilities by using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery”. The text has been improved compared to the original version and many of my previous suggestions have been taken into account. However, several issues still need corrections or clarifications before the manuscript can be finally accepted, in my opinion. 1) Although the authors improved the grammar in the revised manuscript, the language still remains below the high standard required for a final publication. Several examples (it is not the exhaustive list) follow below: Abstract: - "LD patients completed an average of 3.0 stages, [fewer] than the controls, who were able to complete a mean of 8.4 IED stages [on average] (p0.001) ." Introduction: - “… impairment of executive dysfunctions (EFs )”- should be “EDs” or “EDFs”. I noted in my original review that the EF abbreviation was used to indicate both normal and dysregulated functions in the text, which is very confusing. - “…we conducted the current study [and] investigated EFs…”. - “ We hypothesized that the LD group would have more severe cognitive dysfunctions than healthy controls .” Perhaps you meant “… LD group would have [lower performance in these cognitive tasks] than healthy controls ”? If subjects are healthy controls, they are not impaired. Methods: - “Before the actual test is [was] started , orientation trials were given…”. - " The detail [ed] description of the task …”. Results: - “…had a longer SRT time than controls…”. The word “time” is superfluous as “T” in “SRT” stands for “time”. Discussion: - “ The IED tests, which activate s the frontal cortex… ”. The word “tests” is plural and therefore requires “activate”, without “s”. - “The MOT test motivates [engages] the fronto-striatal circuits for sustained attention… ”. Due to the presence of multiple such errors and stylistic imperfections, I strongly recommend that the manuscript undergoes professional language editing. 2) My previous comments regarding the statistical treatment and presentation of data were not replied to, so I am repeating them again: The use of the Student’s t -test is contingent on the normal distribution of data in the compared groups, however there was no evidence this was checked prior to the comparison in this study. As the data are clearly presented in the Tables, there is probably no reason to repeat the same numbers in the text. P-values also can be in a separate column in the Table. Likewise, because the data are quite straightforward, the Figures are not necessary as they just illustrate what is presented in the Tables. Ideally, I would recommend presenting the data as box and whisker plots with all individual values being represented by small dots. This would be the most informative format compared to current Tables and slightly less detailed Figures. 