This is a really good, thorough review of open source ventilators, including both a good technical background, a review of existing peer reviewed projects, and a summary of current efforts. I would thoroughly recommend it to anyone considering joining or using an open source ventilator project, as it's particularly good at pointing to some relevant literature that describes the requirements and principles of operation. The conclusion of the article is that we're not there yet - most of the published designs are not sufficiently complete to be easily replicated, while most of the current open projects are not rigorously tested. The review of peer reviewed articles is interesting and does a good job of rating the different solutions in terms of openness; it is disappointing that these articles don't generally give sufficient information to reproduce the ventilator, but also unsurprising. This lends a great deal of weight to the current move towards more openness in science, where protocols, data, and schematics can be shared in data archives along with papers - but of course that's rarely done retrospectively. The review of "internet and gray literature" seems objective and reasonable to me, and while such a review cannot possibly stay exhaustive given the frequency with which such projects are appearing, it does seem to cover many of the projects I've heard of. More important than an exhaustive list, however, is the discussion of the common issues to most of the DIY projects - the need for careful testing, quality control, and proper authorisation. Most discussions have focused only on technical validation - but as the author rightly points out, this is not the only way medical devices must be assessed. At least as pressing as the technical challenge is the difficulty of getting new suppliers and new devices through a quality assurance process that gives medical professionals the confidence that they can safely use said devices. Openness is an important, and often surprisingly contentious, issue. Of the projects that are discussed, only relatively few make available complete designs for their solution. This is particularly surprising in the case of some projects from high-profile institutions that have already been widely reported in the media as "open" while not yet having released any designs. The commonly-accepted practice in open software is that complete designs, including source code and documentation, are made available to the public, and that a project is not considered open until this happens. Similar norms are being established for open hardware projects, supported by organisations such as OSHWA and GOSH. Given the safety-critical nature of a ventilator, it's reasonable to be reluctant to release untested designs out of a desire to be responsible. Given the time-critical situation, sharing documentation and designs may also be considered lower priority than product development. However, the intent to share a design in the future misses the myriad benefits of open hardware - in terms of scrutiny, feedback, and improvements from the community. It also stifles the development of a community around the design, and there are many cases of promised openness never materialising. My own view is that projects ought not to claim openness until their designs are publicly available under an appropriate license, but there are definitely valid ethical and practical concerns here, and I would welcome an open debate on the best way forward. The one statement in the article that I'm slightly troubled by is the suggestion that developing countries may be at an advantage due to their less robust regulatory systems. Firstly, while it is true that many countries in the Global South do have less formal economies, their regulations are often very tightly aligned with those in richer nations - for example, the Tanzanian medical device regulations closely mirror those used in the EU. If different standards are adhered to, it may be because the regulations are not implemented fully, rather than because the government has intentionally applied lower standards. Also, the better-resourced regulatory bodies in rich nations are more able to accelerate the process of approval if needed; it is not clear to me that a medical device would clear the bureaucratic hurdles and achieve approval any faster in a developing country, indeed the process can be much slower. It is also a very thorny ethical issue to trial medical interventions in the Global South that would not pass ethical scrutiny in richer nations, particularly as the interventions are often being proposed by people from said richer nations. I don't think the author is suggesting this, but I do feel it's a point worth highlighting. While there is often an argument made that low quality medical supplies may be better than nothing, it is also reasonable to expect that developers of technology shouldn't do anything to citizens of Low and Middle-Income Countries (LMICs) that they wouldn't do to patients in their own nation. Indeed, most ethical review panels in the UK apply exactly this criterion. The challenge of creating a safety-critical medical device that can be produced in a distributed manner is significant, and I think the article reflects this. I could not agree more with the statement that "technical validation may not be enough" and would probably go further, to say that technical validation alone is not sufficient to ensure patient safety. While many open ventilator projects now exist and have gathered impressive numbers of volunteers, there remains a significant global challenge to enable such projects to be regulated appropriately, either in the current crisis or longer-term. The existing system of medical device regulation is slow, expensive, and conservative; while this conservatism has its roots in the entirely reasonable desire to prevent harm to patients, the way the system is implemented makes it extremely difficult to certify a medical device without the resources of a large company. Reform of these regulatory systems could enable a more agile approach to the design and manufacture of safety-critical components, but a satisfactory supply chain will also require significantly more quality management than is present in a typical "maker space" run by volunteers, hobbyists, or even experienced engineers. Questions around training and liability are also of paramount importance; while litigation against volunteers acting in good faith seems unduly harsh, there must be accountability in the supply chain of medical devices. Otherwise, we push responsibility onto the clinical staff using uncertified equipment, which adds a crippling burden to front-line staff who are already working at the limit of their capacity. Overall, I think it's right to keep an optimistic tone, while acknowledging the obvious difficulties associated with the current challenge. It's likely that, while there are many 3D printers available around the world, formal structures that do not yet exist will be needed to enable them to be fully employed to solve supply issues in this and future crises. Whether or not it is possible to make use of community designed and built ventilators in the coming months, I look forward to a world where critical supplies can be designed and produced openly for the common good. If we take the opportunity to put LMICs on a more equitable footing with respect to richer nations, the future may be more inclusive, as well as more resilient. 