In the present study, the authors investigate a possible correlation between the magnitude of ventilation augmentation (manifested by increments in ventilatory equivalents from nadir to peak effort) and the lung air trapping indexes measured at rest. The authors analyzed retrospectively data from 20 symptom-limited incremental exercise test performed by 20 COPD patients. Patients underwent to CPET as part of a routine evaluation. The differences between nadir to peak exercise of VE/CO 2 were correlated to air trapping parameters measured at rest in a plethysmography. A positive correlation was found between nadir to peak exercise VE/CO 2 and VE/VO 2 and the degree of air trapping expressed as RV/TLC. The authors concluded that ventilatory equivalents increment (above anaerobic threshold) could be inversely correlated with air trapping and it may be a candidate prognostic biomarker. Although the paper is well written I have some comments to do: The authors choose to calculate ventilatory equivalent subtracting the values at peak exercise to the values measured at the nadir, assuming that the reduced increment of ventilatory equivalent after the minimum values could be mainly referred to a reduced ventilatory capacity of the subject due to air trapping measured at rest. That could be right but it is not completely correct. The simple correlation measured by the authors does not completely clarify the reasons for the interruption of the test by patients, above or below the respiratory compensation point (RCP). Some studies had demonstrated a reduced ventilatory compensation capacity in patients with a more severe emphysema i.e Paoletti et al , 2011 1 nerveless it should take in account that several metabolic alterations occur after the anaerobic threshold that are independent to the ventilatory mechanics and that are more closely related to physical conditioning of the patient. After the anaerobic threshold, peak ventilatory response could be related to several different causes: the exercise intensity and the power increments, the anaerobic reserve of the subject, the muscular O 2 extraction capacity, the amount of metabolic acidosis, the increase in catecholamine levels, the developed or not of dynamic hyperinflation, the ventilatory chemiosensitivity of the carotid bodies, some cardiovascular alteration as an opening of PFO or the develop of pulmonary hypertension, even the individual motivation to complete the exercise and the subject propensity to perform that specific exercise. It is difficult to understand which is the real cause of exercise interruption and this could significantly affect the amount of nadir to peak ventilatory equivalent difference. The difference between nadir to peak ventilatory equivalents does not seems to be a good estimate of patient’s ventilatory compensation during the exercise. It should be noted that, in the regression analysis there are half of the patients that did not increase ventilatory equivalents, which means that they stop the exercise at RCP or immediately after. Table 3 show a significant difference in peak RER between the patients who have not shown increments in VE/CO 2 and the ones who have continued to increase ventilation, suggesting that the two groups reach different intensity exercise domain and probably are different populations (i.e. RC/TLC significantly different). A more complete table, that includes Watt Max, VO 2 peak in ml/kg, VO 2 pulse , VE/MVV peak and FEV 1 /FVC of the two groups could be helpful. Unfortunately it is impossible to know why the subject who showed no increase in VE/VCO 2 , interrupt the exercise immediately after the reach of RCP. To put all the results in the same regression appear as an hazard, there are too many unpredictable sources of error. The authors must provide consistent evidence that the observed correlation is not only apparent. The estimated coefficients of the linear regression and the relative interval of confidence should be calculated. An estimation of the standard error of regression coefficient R 2 should be provide together with the 95% confidence band for R. A residual analysis could help to understand how good is the correlation and if the assumption of normality of the distribution is preserved. The variable chosen by the authors to represent the exercise ventilatory compensation of the patients is not the one universally accepted and utilized for this propose. The authors should clarify why they have not utilized, for instance, the VE/CO 2 slope . In a recent paper Gargiulo P. and coworkers demonstrated that the analysis of VE/CO 2 slope and its intercept on the abscissa (VE int ), that represent the ventilatory requirements when pulmonary gas exchange is null, represents better the ventilatory efficiency (Gargiulo P et al. 2014 2 ). In COPD patients VE int correlate with the VD and Neder and colleagues recently showed that increases in VE int better reflected the progression of functional impairment form mild to end-stage of COPD (Neder JA et al. 2015 3 ). I suggest to test also these parameters in you analysis that are more clearly related to pulmonary efficiency and that are less dependent from the individual motivation of the patients to tolerate the effort. The authors conclude the abstract suggesting that the reduced ventilatory increment in VE/VCO 2 from rest to peak exercise could be a prognostic biomarker. This assumption is not clarified in the text, no data was provided to support this statement and the assumption remains speculative. Minor comments: Abstract Line 4, p 1_ “During incremental cardiopulmonary exercise testing, ventilatory equivalents for carbon dioxide….. may be difficult to identify in COPD patients because of limited ventilatory compensation capacity” . This is not correct. Ventilatory equivalents are always identifiable, in COPD patients could be difficult to identify the respiratory compensation point, the point at which it could be observed an hyperventilatory response to late-exercise acidosis. Line 19, p 1_ “ D V E /VCO 2 and D V E /VO 2 ” . DV E /VCO 2 abbreviation is usually utilized to indicate VE/CO 2 slope and could be confounding, I suggest to change it with a new acronym that specifies that it is the difference between the peak and nadir values. Line 28, p 1_ “…and may be candidate prognostic biomarker” the statement is speculative and not investigated in the study. Introduction Line 26, p 3 _ “The ventilatory threshold (VT)…. “. I suggest to utilize a different abbreviation (i.e. AT or LT), “VT” could be confused with Tidal Volume. Methods Lines 1-10, p 4 _ “Patients performed incremental symptom-limited cycle ergometer…” The authors mentioned a 1-2 minute of warm-up period at 0 watt. 0 watts assumes that an ergometer with pedal assistance has been used. What kind of cycle ergometer was used? did you mean a period of free pedaling at the minimum of watts? Have you estimated the amount of the minimum load of your cycle-ergometer? 1-2 min of warm up could be correct with a real 0 watts ergometer but it could be a too short period if the minimum load provide by the ergometer was 20W or greater. Line 10, p4_ “ the test was terminated at exhaustion” Can you please better define “exhaustion”? Results Table 1. The table should be integrated with the absolute value of VO 2 peak in ml/kg, VO 2@AT in ml/kg, Watt Max and RER at peak exercise. I suggest to put SpO 2 peak rather than the desaturation at peak effort. An explication of how the authors calculated BR should be added to Methods. The percentage of tests in which the respiratory compensation point was identifiable should be added somewhere. DVE/CO 2 should be change with some other abbreviation. Lines 5-16, p4 _ “ D V E /VCO 2 (r= -0.5058, 95% CI -0,7750 to – 0.08149, p =0.0234)…” a p = 0.0234 looks quite significantly, nerveless the adaptation of the regression appear very low, it seems that R 2 is not more than 0.25. I suggest to add to your plot the regression coefficients with the respective standard errors. It could be useful analyzed the residual plot in order to increase the adaptation. Lines 19-20, p4. “Notably, we found no significant correlation between neither D VE/VCO 2 nor nadir VE/VCO 2 and peak VO 2 or FEV 1 . " . Do you mean the absolute values or % predicted? Table 3 . The table shows a significant difference in RER peak between the two population analyzed. The patients with a significant increase in D VE/VCO 2 probably achieve a greater effort intensity. As the entire correlation depends on the patients who sustain the effort beyond their VEVCO 2 nadir , it is likely that the correlation is no longer detectable in the more severe patients. I would like to know the differences between the two groups in VO 2 peak expressed as ml/kg, Watt Max, BR%, Heart Rate Reserve (220-age), VO 2 pulse at peak exercise, FEV 1 in mL and FEV 1 /VC. Discussion Lines 17-19, p 5. “In this study we examined the ability of …. Focusing on the increase in the V E /VCO 2 and V E /VO 2 ” . This is not correct. You have not measured any slope. You measure just a difference. Lines 14-19. P 6. “Therefore the inability to compensate…” . This statement is entirely speculative, beyond the scope of the study and not supported by any data that can be highlighted in the paper. Lines 28-34, p 6. “Therefore, it seems that the lack of increment….” You are comparing a static measurement with a dynamic alteration that occurs in the moment of maximum stress. The problem is that you have not measured any indexes of dynamic hyperinflation. Your conclusion cannot be proven. Lines 34-35, p. 6 “ however, we think that the lower respiratory exchange ratio at peak exercise represents another manifestation of the decreased ventilatory response”. Unfortunately it does not stand out easily if the patient has stopped due to actual exhaustion or to other reasons. Especially in a retrospective study. Lines 49-50, p. 6 “Some patients were obese, which may have caused mild restriction… ” You should take in account that BMI could largely affect the VCO 2 body storage and, as a consequence, the RCP detection or VE/VCO 2 peak values. Is there any differences between the two groups (No Nadir to Peak increment vs patients with nadir to peak increment) in BMI? Can you provide this data? 