In my opinion, this paper is important for two reasons. First, it builds on available data, looking in particular at discrepancies with the current theories, for building a new hypothesis that reconciles most of the unexplained results obtained in the past and were somehow forgotten or set aside. Secondly, by doing so it provides a very good example of how scientific thinking should work, a lesson that many young (and also less young) researchers need to learn. Research is going against dogmas, when dogmas do not explain real life, and formulating new hypotheses, which will the drivers of future research. In this particular case, the hypothesis that T cell polarisation/differentiation does not occur all at once, but that the terminal direction is reached in the specific site of the ongoing defense reaction is indeed a logical assumption, thus likely to be true. An important aspect of this paper is that the author puts the immune reaction right into the geographical and temporal framework of its development. Thus, where and when an immune response takes place could make a significant difference in its outcomes. The paper is well written. The initial summary of current knowledge (which another reviewer, Lawrence Kane , has found too long) is indeed long, but not useless. It may be shortened but it is good to provide a clear picture of what is the current knowledge and hypothesis. Also, in full agreement with Lawrences comment, the author should emphasize the description of the second touch hypothesis, which in this version comes late and almost incidentally. I also agree on finding Table 1 confusing (I couldnt even understand its title). I am particularly pleased, as my major interest is in macrophages, that this hypothesis resurrects the role of macrophages as antigen-presenting cells, a role that has been for a long time forgotten with Steinmans of DC as the one and only APC. Macrophage polarisation into M1 and M2 is briefly touched in this paper, but this is OK since this was not a central issue. However, it may be worth remembering that M2 polarisation comprises, in the current terminology, all that is not M1, and therefore there are the inflammatory M2 macrophages that inform/support Th2 responses (alternative/type 2 inflammatory cells); the anti-inflammatory, tissue repair promoting cells (those that dump all types of inflammatory reactions, both type 1 and type 2, and produce matrix component, angiogenic and proliferation-inducing factors, etc.); and a heterogeneous group of intermediate functional phenotypes. Where exactly tissue resident macrophages fall in this description is still not clarified but since their reaction to any change in the tissue microenvironment is practically immediate, they will be functionally different depending on the tissue conditions - inflammation being a violent and massive kind of change in the tissue microenvironment. I partly disagree with David Voehringers comment that M1/M2 polarisation is dictated by Th1/Th2 cells, while Klaus in his paper state the reverse. Charles Mills et al. (2000) demonstrated how M1/M2 macrophages can actually direct T cell polarisation, opposite to the common belief that Th1/Th2 do regulate macrophage polarisation. I guess that the truth may be half way ( in medio stat virtus ), since there are clear data that macrophages induce T cell polarisation and also data showing that macrophage polarisation is induced/amplified by polarised T cell cytokines. In a tissue during an ongoing inflammatory reaction, both things would have the possibility of occurring. We should also be aware that monocytes and lymphocytes infiltrating the site of inflammation do not come all at once at a single time point, but instead continuously during the entire course of the reaction - thus the antigen-experienced cells and the blood monocytes find, depending on when they arrive, completely different microenvironments and could therefore undergo different differentiation/regulation. To conclude, I really liked the paper, not only its content but also its ability to stimulate my interest and wish to know more and go deeper.