In this work Kalbfleisch et al. develop a novel set of SNP loci for moose. To do so the authors generated genomic sequence data from 4 moose across their range in the United States, aligned the reads to both cow and sheep reference genomes, and then applied a series of filters to select a subset of loci in highly conserved regions. The resulting set of loci showed a gradient of diversity decreasing from west to east, consistent with hypothesized colonization. The authors state that these loci will serve as a resource for future management and conservation applications. I think that this study has laudable goals and adds a valuable resource for moose conservation. However, there are some issues the analyses and presentation that need to be clarified. Overall comments The alignment and filtering procedures seem overly restrictive. Authors note that only ~10% of their reads aligned to the cow and sheep reference genomes (not surprising given the levels of divergence among the species) meaning that 90% of the data was essentially thrown away. Why not start with a de novo assembly of the moose sequence? Along these lines there are several recent papers that detail a hybrid procedure for genome construction that begins with de novo assembly and then apply cross-species alignment for scaffolding, e.g. https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12859-017-1911-6 If part of the goals is to eventually use these loci for “population genetic applications” (e.g. looking for population structure and assigning individuals to those populations) it strikes me that selecting loci that are in such heavily conserved regions may result in biased estimates. Can the authors comment on this? Doesn’t this procedure result in a lot of “moose specific” variants being missed? I can understand that it is not the objective of this paper to create a draft genome sequence for the moose (though the authors note in several places that this would be useful, and the data generated here seem appropriate to attempt this), but then more justification as to why this was not attempted needs to be given. Did the authors check and make sure that the “highly conserved genomic regions” are not in repetitive elements? A blast search of these regions should do the trick. Specific comments In the sentence in the introduction starting with “DNA technology developments…” saying that SNPs have “replaced” microsatellites and mitochondrial DNA is a gross overstatement. There are many studies still using these markers and there are many applications where these markers may be preferable. Would be better to say something along the lines that SNPs have gained in use. As currently written, the sentence in the introduction starting with “Moreover, panels pf SNPs broaden…” is incorrect. Microsatellites and mitochondrial DNA also provide means of measuring inbreeding and relatedness among individuals. This should be rephrased to state that SNPs may be better at these estimates, likely due to the factors listed in the previous sentence (abundance, accuracy, etc.) I would couch the statement that previous estimates of low genetic diversity in moose will make it hard to discover SNPs. This may be true, but it has not been tested and estimates of diversity from 5-11 microsatellites likely will not reflect genome-wide patterns. Remove “in the prevailing theory,” I find it striking that in the final paragraph of the introduction there is no mention of the plethora of genotype-by-sequencing approaches that are used for SNP discovery and population genetic analyses but do not require a reference genome, e.g Peterson et al. (2012) 1 . This should be addressed. When you state the sub-species names in the Methods refer readers to Table 1 so that they know which occurs where relative to your samples. Which program or programs were used to filter the raw reads? State what “UMD3.1” and “Oar_v3.1” are when you first introduce them in the methods Is binning relative to the cow genome actually informative for moose? Are the karyotypes comparable? How many chromosomes does the moose have? Along this same line, I think having the variants locations for both UMD3.1 and Oar_v3.1 plotted on top of each other in Figure 4 is misleading. It suggests that the locations are syntenic, which is not true. For instance, the plot implies that no variants were discovered on chromosomes 27, 28, and 29 in the sheep genome, when really this is impossible as sheep only have 27 autosomes. I would suggest re-doing this figure with separate panels for each figure, though see the caveat above. In Figure 5A why are there two bars for each of the “Hom” counts but only one for the “Het”? 