In the study described in this article, the authors use two complementary approachers to investigate the bacterial diversity on corn leaves over time. They aimed at untangling the bacterial community assembly processes on corn leaves. The authors were the first to my knowledge to investigate temporal community development on corn plants. The molecular work is thorough, discussed well and leaves little room for improvement based on the techniques employed. However, I have major objections about the use of scanning electron microscopy as a tool for community investigations. I keep but wondering why the authors tried to use it in the first place since a literature search would have revealed that microscopy without molecular tools is not suitable for community investigations. This is why I propose to stress early on in the manuscript that this is a failed attempt to combine DNA-based molecular techniques and morphological data. The following paragraph reads somewhat abrupt but they entail my concerns about the microscopical analysis and how they may be improved in the future. The analysis of electron microscopical pictures is highly problematic as debris will be virtually and practically indistinguishable from bacteria at the resolution the images were acquired. Even a well trained analyst will not be able to distinguish them. Additionally, yeast will be visible in those images that would not be picked up in the ARISA analysis. Furthermore, the preparation of the specimen will remove bacterial biomass from leaves. The analysis of the SEM pictures that was performed manually instead of using computer-based thresholds or filters, even though using trained individuals, may also be highly problematic to determine the size and shape of individual bacteria since the ability of the analyst to surround the bacterial cell is limited by their ability to draw using a mouse/ touchpad etc.. This is well visible on the right hand side of Figure 2. The abundance of bacterial biomass seems extremely low - it would help the reader to provide a graphical representation of the biomass coverage and its development over time. I recommend the repeat the experiment using an independent marker such as a DNA intercalating fluorescent dye or fluorescence in situ hybridisation and fluorescence microscopy. Since spatial data was not important to the analysis, I also recommend to recover the bacterial biomass by washing instead of performing on leaf observations. In general however, I am very doubtful of the use of size markers to cluster bacterial cells into operational taxonomic unit equivalents, bacteria are notoriously flexible if it comes to size: imagine a cell that is growing up to soon divide versus a cell that freshly divided. Frank Dazzo's work, which is also cited by the authors takes the cell size analysis a step further and includes additional geometrical measures to determine "morphotypes" that he uses as a proxy for diversity, which is something that the authors should consider to improve the resolution of their SCU analysis. I understand however, that there is no suitable technique available thus far that would yield a single-cell result that would resemble an OTU-based analysis. A combination of FISH + morphological analysis may be the most advanced option thus far. In summary, I am missing a motivation in the introduction for the used technique and why the authors believed that is would offer merit over the complementary ARISA approach. From the current description it is unclear to me how different SCUs were assigned, how many classes were detected etc. Some corresponding results are well hidden in the supplemental data (S1 C), however in the corresponding graphs, the units are lacking. My guess is, that they refer to mˆ2, then again, I am confused that the chosen bins are of different width each time. Again surprising to me is, that some identified bacteria projected an area as large as 20 mˆ2, which seems unlikely. As a side note, the quality of the pictures is very low and they are full of compression artefacts, the authors should provide a higher quality screenshot to aid readability. Additional discussion why image analysis was not suitable and how it may be improved in the future would be useful. Other general comments: I believe that the more recent works of Steve Kembel should be cited e.g. Tree phyllosphere bacterial communities: exploring the magnitude of intra- and inter-individual variation among host species 1 . Host species identity, site and time drive temperate tree phyllosphere bacterial community structure . Isabelle Laforest-Lapointe, Christian Messier and Steven W. Kembel 2 . As well as: Maignien L, DeForce EA, Chafee ME, Eren AM, Simmons SL. 2014. Ecological succession and stochastic variation in the assembly of Arabidopsis thaliana phyllosphere communities 3 . The authors focus their discussion almost exclusively on Shade et al. 2013 4 . Shade et al investigated the very short-lived microbiome “flower” while in the presented study relatively long lived leaves are under investigation. The citations above should provide additional important material for the discussion and should provide data from habitats that are a better comparison than flowers. Specific comments: The first sentence of the introduction should be corrected as the phyllosphere is the habitat that is colonised by microbial communities, not the community itself. Second last paragraph of the introduction: the authors cite one of my papers to support their statement that bacteria can be tracked by using (fluorescent) reporter genes, however, in the cited paper, bacteria were washed of plant leaves prior to their investigation, therefore other papers, such as Monier and Lindow 2005 5 are more suitable citations here. If the authors insist to cite me, Remus-Emsermann et al. 2011 6 is more appropriate. Methods: Electron microscopy: Instead, or additionally, to referring the absolute magnification, acquired area should be mentioned to better understand how representative the acquired field of views were. The "Ribosomal spacer amplification and separation (ARISA) paragraph" ends with "Bacterial sizes acquired from all images were binned using methods described by Shimazaki et al.. Bin sizes were assigned to the microbial samples as size-class units (SCU) and a microbial community profile was created for the samples using the RiboSort package in R." I assume this should be shifted to the previous paragraph, otherwise I don't understand the paragraph Paragraph “SEM image analysis”: it is not clear to me how Image Pro Plus was used to measure “bacterial areas”, did you employ a detection algorithm that only worked within the circled areas, or were the circled areas themselves measures? To maintain a parallel structure throughout the manuscript, i.e. first SEM analysis and then ARISA analysis, Table 1 and Table 2 should be switched in sequence. The same is true for Figure 3 a and b and Figure 4 and 5. Alternatively, the method sections could be switched in sequence. the term SEM OTU occurs in table 3 - this should be corrected to SCU. Supplement S1: the description of the figures is not self explanatory and should be improved. Suggestion: “Analysis of S…” and “Total species (S)…” should read “Taxa_S = Total OTU” or “SCU” to be consistent with the nomenclature used in the graph, or the label of the y-axis could be changed. The paper was subject of a journal club in my group and members of my lab group contributed to this review. 