This is a descriptive work that has as primary aim to evaluate the prevalence of HBV and HCV in a hemodialysis population of the city of Posadas (Argentina). The research have been conducted with ethical and methodological correctness and results, although of limited reach, contribute with useful information on HBV and HCV prevalence in an at-risk group (hemodialysis patients) from a geographical region with paucity of such studies. Moreover, sero-prevalence of HBV in Misiones Province appear to be high, which may indicate a distinct epidemiological situation closer to that reported for neighbor Brazil than that described for Central and Southern Argentina. Therefore, I consider that the manuscript is suitable for indexing, provided some restructuring is done in the text. Moreover, the article has, at present, 147 views and 50 download. This means it has raised interest in the scientific community and for that, I think it deserves to be corrected to include the suggestions of the reviewers. I would like, then, to make some suggestions that I think may help improving the text. In first place, and if it is possible, the present title “Prevalence of hepatitis B and C infections in hemodialysis patients” may be completed to include a characterization of the geographical region from where the results come from. The reader would then have an insight of the specific geographic and epidemiological context from the beginning. In the introduction, it will be very important to geographically and epidemiologically situate Misiones Province, and specifically Posadas City, describing available results on HBV/HCV prevalence in this specific population. Methods: It is desirable to check the English syntax and grammar of the first to third paragraphs. The phrase “The protection and control mechanisms for this type of research in Argentina includes inclusion of a written informed consent obtained from each participant" is unnecessary, since in the third paragraph it is stated that “All patients signed an informed consent statement”. Please, explain better the inclusion criteria. The statement “individuals with CRF who were just starting hemodialysis treatment 30 days before obtaining blood samples” is misleading, since it gives the impression that all individuals started hemodialysis 30 days before obtaining blood samples for the present study. In the statistics description, replace “Mann–Whitney U test was used for the comparison of continuous data (p0.005)” by Mann–Whitney U test was used for the comparison of continuous non-normal data. P-values 0.05 were considered significant. Results: Please clarify the issue of HIV infection (vs. co-infection). Have all patients been tested for HIV infection, or only the HCV/HBV positive ones? If it is the first case, please correct the statement “human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) coinfection was found in any of the cases.” by “human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection was not found in any of the cases.” Figure 1, please express decimal notation with periods instead of commas. Gender association in HCV+ and HBV+ patients would be better presented as a stacked column graphic with percentage of male or female individuals for each category. Wouldn’t Fisher’s exact test be a better statistical to apply here?. The authors should provide in the Discussion a possible explanation for the gender association found in the study. What was the specific statistical approach used for testing association between time of dialysis and HCV/HBV serostatus? Was it, as described in Fig. 4, a 2x6 Pearson Chsq test or, alternatively time was categorized in 5 vs 5 years? Risk is not well modelled by Chsq tests, and so, with the present statistical approach it only can be described as association. To model the risk, a logistic regression with HCV/HBV serostatus as dependent variable may be used instead. Again, the bar graphic with number of pts as scale is not very informative. Respect of data on serum ALT levels, in figure 6, results of a Mann-Whitney test are provided, but the representation of data is as categories (till 40U/L - 40 U/L). The authors should either present categorical test results (i.e. Chisq or Fisher’s) or a Box-and-whisker plot with data around the median value. This last would be a better graphical depiction for the data. Discussion needs to be rewritten to put the results in a stronger theoretical context. The authors should focus at least part of the discussion on the comparison of Misiones data with Brazilian available data and data from the rest of Argentina. In fact, most of the significant references from Brazil are listed in the article reference list, but they have not been used to highlight the similarity of Misiones’ data. Important references from Misiones (and the rest of Argentina) are lacking, as it was pointed out in a previous review. Additionaly, I would like to ask the authors to include in the revised version of the ms some points addressed by a previous reviewer, which in my opinion are minor revisions. Add information on demographics and the prevalence of HCV and HBV separately for each of the four participating hemodialysis centers in the city of Posadas. The data can be included as a supplementary table, if so allowed by the Journal. Please, describe the HBV vaccine history of patients. If possible, include the information of HBV and HCV serological status of CRF patients prior to hemodialysis. In the Methods section, please state the period of time of sample collection. In respect to the association between transfusion history and HBsAg, it would be important to indicate the period of transfusion, in order to rule out (if it was a recent event) or strongly suggest (if it occurred before the 1960s) that transfusion was the source of HBV infection. There is potential for more in-depth analysis and comparison. The authors should include more discussion and compare with their findings. For example, it is known that Misiones is a high HBV prevalence area in Argentina (please read the papers by Delfino et al., J ClinVirol 2012 and Arch Virol 2014). References 1. Delfino CM, Gentile EA, Castillo AI, Cuestas ML, et al.: Hepatitis B virus and hepatitis D virus in blood donors from Argentina: circulation of HBsAg and reverse transcriptase mutants. Arch Virol . 2014; 159 (5): 1109-17 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Blanco S, Balangero MC, Valle MC, Montini OL, et al.: Usefulness of nucleic acid testing to reduce risk of hepatitis B virus transfusion-transmitted infection in Argentina: high rate of recent infections. Transfusion . 2016. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Delfino CM, Berini C, Eirin ME, Malan R, et al.: New natural variants of hepatitis B virus among Amerindians from Argentina with mainly occult infections. J Clin Virol . 2012; 54 (2): 174-9 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Hassan R. Reviewer Report For: Prevalence of hepatitis B and C infections in hemodialysis patients [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1910 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9759.r15421 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1910/v1#referee-response-15421 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Esposito I and Trinks J. Reviewer Report For: Prevalence of hepatitis B and C infections in hemodialysis patients [version 1; peer review: 1 approved, 1 approved with reservations, 2 not approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :1910 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9759.r17997 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-1910/v1#referee-response-17997 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 05 Dec 2016 Isabella Esposito , Instituto de Ciencias Básicas y Medicina Experimental (ICBME), Instituto Universitario del Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina Julieta Trinks , Instituto de Ciencias Básicas y Medicina Experimental (ICBME), Instituto Universitario del Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina Not Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.9759.r17997 Patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) receiving hemodialysis are at higher risk for acquiring Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) and Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infections than the general population. The susceptibility to acquire viral hepatitis during hemodialysis has several potential underlying reasons ... Continue reading READ ALL 