The protocol is well-written and explains the trial design and the rationale for the study well. In the introduction the statement that Ref 3 costs of care are estimated at 51K euros needs clarification. This is the cost for a median nerve injury and includes societal costs and loss of production. I think following on from the statement regarding 9000 injuries per annum that this is misleading and requires clarification. The paragraph detailing the option of direct repair should be expanded to discuss the challenges in direct repair of acute nerve injuries. Delay to repair renders the tension greater and the need for debridement may result in unacceptable tension. There are strategies that can be employed to reduce repair site tension and these include using conduits or connectors to bridge the repair site with offloading remote sutures. Papers by Zhu 1 and by Neubrech 2 detail the efficacy of this approach. "Where the nerve gap exceeds more than 5 mm, there are two fundamental options, either ‘nerve grafting’ or ‘tubulisation’" I am concerned that this statement may mislead the reader. A gap of 5-6mm may be left in a no gap acute nerve injury with entubulation as a way of detensioning a repair site. The use of conduits to allow bridging of gaps up to 6mm is supported by evidence form Weber and others. Longer gap entubulation is less favourable and beyond 12mm the evidence for existing conduits is poor. The surgeon should consider the options and these are well described in the paper by Ducic et al. 3 They include using autograft and also allograft for sensory nerves (limited evidence for mixed nerves). I feel that the introduction is too superficial and aims to prepare the reader for a discussion of an improved conduit design but at the cost of an inadequate review of the available options and evidence base. At minimum there should be an analysis of the gap sizes in the Weber paper (poor data interpretation and grouping of larger and medium gaps with small numbers). A recent systematic review on conduits and gap management by DeSlivia et al., 2015 4 is better to discuss. Particularly as there is recruitment of the 5-20mm gap range a more extensive introductory comment and literature review is warranted. The discussion on the non-absorbable versus bioresorbable conduits is comprehensive. There should be commentary on the sizing of conduits and the issues about transparency assisting use, particularly when there is a use of a conduit in a short gap reconstruction where misalignment can cause problems. There is good explanation of the rationale for the PCL use. There should be clarification of the need for a conduit to allow minimal deformation under loading to prevent disruption of the primitive fibrin clot matrix for axon regeneration. The statement about the mechanical properties of the Polynerve is insufficient and should include a discussion of this aspect of load and deformation. Intervention: There is no discussion of nerve debridement. There is no discussion of the number and technique of suture placement to secure the conduit, nor needle type to pass through the conduit. As such the study may not be repeatable by another group. Is the antibiotic use for 1 week local policy or is this adapted for this patient population given the use of a synthetic conduit. Risks: There is comment on the risk of neuroma in sensory nerve repair. The specific risks of the Polynerve shouldn't include the general risks associated with a bioresorbable conduit as listed but further detail of the risk of nerve displacement from the conduit should be detailed. Extrusion typically refers to ulceration of the conduit through the wound and not to the nerve displacement from the conduit. There is no discussion of the type of US, the technique and findings interpretation as a secondary outcome measure other than listing in the schedule of events. This is not a normal investigation following simple nerve repair or grafting and the rationale and interpretation must be discussed here. The remainder of the monitoring TMG, DMEC, audit and AE reporting is excellent. The conclusion is good but the points raised should be introduced earlier for the reader to understand the concept for this conduit. The failure to review the evidence for allograft is an oversight. 