The submission “Does fMRI neurofeedback in the context of stress influence mood and arousal? A randomised controlled trial with parallel group design” reports in a concise manner the assessment of arousal and mood before and after a real time neurofeedback fMRI experiment aimed at down-regulation of brain regions involved in stress response, in a controlled trial - using sham feedback in a control group. The authors conclude that real time fMRI Neurofeedback experiment led to a higher arousal in the experimental group compared with the control group and overall worse mood, even in an experiment aimed at reducing stress response. Introduction The authors present the psychological and physiological impact of increased stress response, as well as the direct (health) and indirect (economic burden) impact of stress and related disorders. While the authors present and discuss the classical stress management interventions and their limitations, neurofeedback is introduced as an possible individually-tailored alternative. There is recent literature on fMRI neurofeedback in PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder) see work from (Gerin et al . 2016) 1 ; (Nicholson et al . 2018) 2 ; (Zotev et al . 2018) 3 or review from (Chiba et al . 2019) 4 as well as in EEG (Panisch and Hai 2020) 5 and (Keynan et al . 2019) 6 . The reviewer encourages the authors to discuss their hypothesis in the context of these studies. Although the link between the stress response and the arousal is already clear in the first paragraph of the introduction, the same is not to be said about the relation between stress response and mood. Information regarding the region of interest to be modulated (right anterior cingulate cortex and insular cortex) should be added to the introduction section, explaining the choice of neurofeedback target and its anatomical and functional relation with the central and peripheral stress response. Finally, a clear a-priori scientific hypothesis should be defined substantiated by literature and if the results are contrary to the hypothesis - for instance, multitasking and it’s relation with arousal and stress response - this should be discussed in the Discussion section. Methods The subject recruitment through block-randomized scheme is well explained, although questions arise, especially why the unbalance between the number of subjects allocated for the experimental condition (N=17) and control condition (N=13). The authors pointed out that you based on the sample size on previous studies and estimated that with 14 subjects in each group you could detect effects of d=1 with power (1- beta 0.8, alpha =0.05, one sided). This takes into account what outcome measure? The primary outcome of this real time fMRI Neurofeedback project (“physiological components of stress (brain activity and blood pressure”) or the mood and arousal assessment? The authors refer to reporting data from the first laboratory visit and the first experiment day. The reviewer is curious on why did the authors not use data from the third lab visit - after the intervention? The experimental procedure needs further explanation. The reviewer would advise a figure, a visual depiction of the overall neurofeedback intervention. Although the reviewer assumes that the intervention is explained elsewhere (other manuscript), it should be noted that the work presented should be the most self-explanatory as possible. Several questions arise, such as the experimental design -block design? If so, how many blocks per “Neurofeedback only” and “Neurofeedback with Stroop '' and their duration per block? And finally, are the participants advised to use one of the four strategies (body attention, emotional imagery, facial, expression and contemplative repetition) per block or all strategies during one block? Region of interest definition explanation is divided by a full paragraph of MR acquisition sequence information, a reformulation of this section is advised using, for example, the following order: MR acquisition, ROI definition, Neurofeedback calculation and presentation). Additionally, take note that during functional localizer description, if no feedback is being provided, the ROI definition is not from “calculating the neurofeedback signal”, but perhaps the activation/BOLD signal - please reformulate. Results The reviewer is pleased with the explanation and the application of the proposed statistical tests and the reporting of the results, using 95%CI. Discussion The assumption by the authors that there is higher cognitive on subjects in the experimental group compared with the control group - sham feedback - should be substantiated by literature. Conversely, the work of (Sorger et al . 2019) 7 states that when presenting feedback signals from a participant in the experimental group - provided that subjects in the control group do not detect the non-contingency between their efforts and the resulting feedback change - there should not be differences in motivation and perceived success. The author also adds the importance of monitoring frustration and whether the participants believe they were in the experimental group to confirm non-contingency, not mentioning differences in effort between groups. Additionally, the claim made by the authors that subjects from the control group realized the non-contingency between effort and feedback signal should be substantiated by data from debriefing or questionnaire after the NF intervention. Non-contingency is a common element of neurofeedback studies regardless of group assignment (Sorger et al. 2019) 7 . In order to consider arousal levels an indicator of multitasking, it should be noted that in the results from Figure 3, during the “Neurofeedback-only” runs, SAM arousal was already significantly higher for participants in the experimental condition [t(26.6)=-2.216, 95%CI[-2.188, -0.083], p=0.035, (two-tailed test)], as compared to those in the control condition. Assuming multitasking refers to simultaneous brain activation modulation whilst performing a stroop task, although it is verifiable that it leads to higher arousal, a comparison between experimental condition “Neurofeedback with Stroop” and “Neurofeedback-only” is needed to conclude the relation between arousal and multitasking. With this information, valuable insights would be added to the literature in relation to the balance of cognitive demand of the neurofeedback tasks and the efficacy/stress response of the participant. Experimental design limitations are well explained by the authors and insights are added on future experimental designs improvements on mood assessment in a real time Neurofeedback fMRI experiment. Nonetheless, tiredness results due to fatigue could be substantiated by previous fMRI Neurofeedback literature that report fatigue and its impact on the efficacy of the session (Pereira et al . 2019) 8 ; (Koush et al . 2012) 9 ; (Caria et al . 2007) 10 . There is recent literature on these factors as well as other psychological factors that influence neurofeedback learning outcomes (Kadosh and Staunton 2019) 11 .Additionally, multitask impact on arousal and stress response should be completed with information from the last two sentences of the Introduction chapter, that are clearly arguments for the discussion section of this work. The authors report consistent differences between SAM arousal scores comparing Experimental group and Control group, both during “Neurofeedback-only” and “Neurofeedback with Stroop” in an experiment aimed at down-regulation of the activation of brain regions related to stress response. This is an intriguing result and further explanation of this phenomenon should be obtained. Insights on the relation between the perceived control of feedback and SAM arousal - using possible debriefing questionnaires - and the relation between BOLD variation of the experimental ROI (neurofeedback success) during both Neurofeedback runs and the SAM arousal scores could add information on experimental design choice of control group in a Neurofeedback experiment. Moreover, the reviewer agrees with adding information regarding the second experimental day, which would allow to compare post intervention scores and thus remove any bias in mood and arousal self-assessment.. Minor points (page 1) : “And accumulated or chronic stress can lead to (...)”. Please rephrase. (page 5) :Congruent and incongruent trials are not previously defined. (page 5) :“With regard to the first experiment day,” The first experiment day was previously defined as only “experiment day” therefore you should remove the word ‘first’ or find a better way to uniform the phrasing. (page 5) : “and also do neurofeedback” The authors should rephrase, Neurofeedback is the technique, the action you perform is the modulation of your own brain activity. “rtfMRInf” and “rtfMRI-NF” both used throughout the work, the authors should choose only one abbreviation. (page 9) : “cognitive task with adaptive difficulty” Not sure if adaptive difficulty is the right term to describe the differences in difficulty in “Neurofeedback-only” “Neurofeedback with stroop ” runs, since the difficulty does not adapt according to the results, the experimental design just has two levels of difficulty. 