In their ‘response paper’, Segerdahl and colleagues endeavour to correct what they consider “important misunderstandings” made by Davis et al. 1 in their target article. Most of the points raised by Davis and colleagues are of technical nature, and question the validity of the methods used by Segerdahl et al. to reach their conclusions. Here Segerdahl et al. thoroughly describe the methods employed, correct misunderstandings, and on this basis judge that the extrapolation and inferences made by Davis and colleagues are not consistent with their target report 2 . Also, they take the opportunity to expand on a number of conceptual points that were made. The response is broadly divided in two parts, respectively technical and interpretative. From the technical point of view, they rebut a number of points advanced in the Davis et al. ’s paper, in particular their critique of the multi-delay ASL technique, the excessively long sampling intervals and the small number of control subjects, all of them contributing to a supposed underpower of the experiment. Segerdahl et al. vigorously correct several facts that seem to have been misunderstood in the Davis et al. ’s comment, in particular that brain MRI volumes were acquired every 8 seconds –and not 45–, and that the control experiment was completed on 12 participants –not 7 as implied in Davis et al . These are important particulars that could have undermined the reliability of the MRI data under question; the clarification appears appropriate, and lends support to the reliability of Segerdahl et al. ’s original results. I am unable to enter the highly technical discussion on the relative merits of uni- or multi-TI ASL methods. While the arguments advanced by Segerdahl to defend the superiority of multi-TI ASL appear solid, I must deplore that they are mostly based on their own productions, which limits generalisation. Reproducibility of functional imaging (or rather the lack of it) is a crucial problem 3 , 4 and quoting external sources on multi-TI procedures would have strengthened the authors’ argument. I support and share one of the main notions in the response of Segerdahl et al. , namely that they never claimed to have determined a sole ‘pain centre’, and that being fundamental for pain experience, as they wrote, does not equate being the sole region responsible for such experience. It seems clear to me that identifying a role for dorsal posterior insula (dpIns) in tracking pain intensity does not automatically promote the concept of a ‘single pain spot’. I would just add a nuance: while we have abundant experimental data of the dpIns coding properties under physiological conditions, this may not hold for neuropathic states where the dorsal insula is injured of highly deafferented, in which case the perceived intensity of pain may be coded by other areas –possibly including the insular cortex ipsilateral to the pain, which becomes disinhibited 5 . Also, and probably because of extensive cortical plasticity, long-standing destruction of both posterior insulae has been shown to be compatible with the ability to continuously rate the moment-to-moment level of pain 6 . Thus, the ‘fundamental’ role of the postero-dorsal insula tagged by Segerdahl et al. may be transferred to other networks in pathological conditions. The authors acknowledge the importance of one of the criticisms from Davis et al. ’s comments, namely the lack of direct statistical comparison between pain and innocuous stimulation. Indeed, showing that one region exhibits significant activity changes in one condition (pain) and not in other (vibration) does not allow affirming that the activity of both regions would have differed significantly had they been compared directly. The error of comparing significance levels without directly testing their difference is said to be especially common in the neuroimaging literature 7 , 8 . To respond to this criticism, now Segerdahl and colleagues performed a comparison of the correlation between CBF and intensity ratings during pain versus the correlation CBF / intensity ratings during vibration. This approach seems fair to me, although the formulation of the results remains ambiguous, and I remain unsure whether there was a significant difference between the two correlations, or a region X condition significant interaction –the straightforward result I should have expected. This could have been clarified further. The notion of a gradient in the processing of noxious inputs from the lateral operculum (SII) to its medial portion (OP2) and posterior dorsal insula (dpIns) appears well backed by the literature. For instance, the sites where electrical stimulation induce non-noxious thermal sensations in humans predominate in the inner operculum (OP2) while those evoking clear pain tend to concentrate in the posterior insula 9 . Also, while medial opercular sites responded to barely perceptive thermal increases, the posterior insular response only emerged clearly at noxious levels 10 . Such a gradient is difficult to explain on a simple afferent connectivity basis, as the primate’s spinothalamic system projects in similar proportions to the granular insula and its adjacent operculum 11 . Labelled lines entailing a significant predominance of nociceptive-specific afferents in the posterior insula might contribute an explanation 12 , but this is difficult to reconcile with classical data showing the predominance of low threshold units in this same area 13 ' 14 . Alternatively, functional differences between dpIns and operculum might reflect network properties, partially independent from those of isolated neurons. For instance, the posterior insula has a more extended connectivity pattern than the opercular region and S2 proper; the massive amount of afferent input to the insula may entail a greater background activity than in the operculum, hence obstructing the precise encoding of low-energy stimuli barely emerging from background noise. This might explain why posterior insula networks are biased toward encoding nociception despite the fact that approximately 70% of primate insular neurons can respond to non-noxious somatic inputs too 13 , and that intracranial recordings demonstrate posterior insular responses to non-noxious stimuli in humans 15 . Such a bias, however, reflects a progressive gradient, and not a clearcut functional cleavage, and failure to acknowledge this may lead us toward dangerous neo-phrenology. The suprasylvian operculum can also encode stimulus intensity in the painful ranges 10 , and the dpIns can also respond to non-noxious stimuli 16 . In conclusion, I believe the authors make clear their case that any notion of a ‘single pain centre’ in the human brain is absent from their line of thinking –and absent from the conclusions in their target paper. They also point out various methodological points that seem to have been misunderstood in the Davis et al .’s comment, while accepting the importance of others, such as the lack of direct statistical comparison between conditions. The important role we can ascribe to the dpIns should not be confounded with an absolute specificity of this area –especially when it comes to neuropathic lesions. And importantly, Segerdahl et al . acknowledge that the comments from Davis and her colleagues have triggered a most interesting, valuable and enlightening discussion, which should help many readers to get insight into current controversies on pain perception. To me, this is exactly how science advances. References 1. Davis KD, Bushnell MC, Iannetti GD, St Lawrence K, et al.: Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula. F1000Res . 2015; 4 : 362 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Segerdahl AR, Mezue M, Okell TW, Farrar JT, et al.: The dorsal posterior insula subserves a fundamental role in human pain. Nat Neurosci . 2015; 18 (4): 499-500 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Bennett CM, Miller MB: How reliable are the results from functional magnetic resonance imaging?. Ann N Y Acad Sci . 2010; 1191 : 133-55 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 4. Reardon S: Neuroscience in court: The painful truth. Nature . 2015; 518 (7540): 474-6 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 5. Peyron R, Schneider F, Faillenot I, Convers P, et al.: An fMRI study of cortical representation of mechanical allodynia in patients with neuropathic pain. Neurology . 2004; 63 (10): 1838-46 PubMed Abstract 6. Feinstein JS, Khalsa SS, Salomons TV, Prkachin KM, et al.: Preserved emotional awareness of pain in a patient with extensive bilateral damage to the insula, anterior cingulate, and amygdala. Brain Struct Funct . 2015. PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 7. Poldrack RA, Fletcher PC, Henson RN, Worsley KJ, et al.: Guidelines for reporting an fMRI study. Neuroimage . 2008; 40 (2): 409-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 8. Nieuwenhuis S, Forstmann BU, Wagenmakers EJ: Erroneous analyses of interactions in neuroscience: a problem of significance. Nat Neurosci . 2011; 14 (9): 1105-7 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 9. Mazzola L, Isnard J, Mauguière F: Somatosensory and pain responses to stimulation of the second somatosensory area (SII) in humans. A comparison with SI and insular responses. Cereb Cortex . 2006; 16 (7): 960-8 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 10. Frot M, Magnin M, Mauguière F, Garcia-Larrea L: Human SII and posterior insula differently encode thermal laser stimuli. Cereb Cortex . 2007; 17 (3): 610-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 11. Dum RP, Levinthal DJ, Strick PL: The spinothalamic system targets motor and sensory areas in the cerebral cortex of monkeys. J Neurosci . 2009; 29 (45): 14223-35 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 12. Craig AD: Topographically organized projection to posterior insular cortex from the posterior portion of the ventral medial nucleus in the long-tailed macaque monkey. J Comp Neurol . 2014; 522 (1): 36-63 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 13. Robinson CJ, Burton H: Somatic submodality distribution within the second somatosensory (SII), 7b, retroinsular, postauditory, and granular insular cortical areas of M. fascicularis. J Comp Neurol . 1980; 192 (1): 93-108 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 14. Schneider RJ, Friedman DP, Mishkin M: A modality-specific somatosensory area within the insula of the rhesus monkey. Brain Res . 1993; 621 (1): 116-20 PubMed Abstract 15. Perchet C, Frot M, Vartiainen N, Claude L, et al.: A comparison of the cerebral networks activated by painful and non-painful stimulations in humans: an intra-cerebral recording study. Paper to the 2015 European Congress of Clinical Neurophysiology . 2015; ID 304 : pp. 354 Reference Source 16. Björnsdotter M, Löken L, Olausson H, Vallbo A, et al.: Somatotopic organization of gentle touch processing in the posterior insular cortex. J Neurosci . 2009; 29 (29): 9314-20 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Garcia-Larrea L. Reviewer Report For: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: “Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula” by Davis et al. [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1207 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7854.r11550 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1#referee-response-11550 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Craig A. Reviewer Report For: The dorsal posterior insula is not an island in pain but subserves a fundamental role - Response to: “Evidence against pain specificity in the dorsal posterior insula” by Davis et al. [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2015, 4 :1207 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7854.r11308 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/4-1207/v1#referee-response-11308 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 25 Nov 2015 Arthur Craig , Atkinson Research Laboratory, Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.7854.r11308 Segerdahl and colleagues have replied clearly and thoughtfully to the issues raised by Davis et al. regarding the short paper in Nature Neuroscience. Their response seems collegial in tone, granting trans-atlantic cultural differences (e.g., the imperative “remember” might be received ... Continue reading READ ALL 