The article’s title and abstract are appropriate. The design, methods and analysis have been explained, and are appropriate for this preliminary report. The conclusions are supported by the results. Data have been provided. Some context and suggestions for analysis are provided here. Separation of cellular genetic material is central to forensic DNA analysis. Separation stages include: Cells . Labs separate cells out of mixed cellular populations based on physical characteristics. For example, differential extraction can enrich sperm in one cell fraction relative to epithelial cells in another fraction. The red autofluorescence described in the paper occurs at this front-end stage. DNA . Extraction procedures separate nucleic acids from other molecules. Such procedures include organic, non-organic, chelex, FTA or silica methods. Loci . PCR separates short DNA regions from the rest of the genome by amplifying (i.e., purifying) these specific regions relative to background sequence. Fragments . Fluorescent electrophoresis separates DNA fragments by size, identifying length polymorphism alleles and determining their relative quantity. Genotype . Computer separation of electrophoretic data can determine the genotypes of each contributor to a DNA mixture 1 . Back-end methods that do not separate contributors 2 have limited applicability for resolving complex DNA mixtures. This paper focuses on the first step, front-end separation of mixed epithelial cell populations. The authors investigate a novel physical assay – red autofluorescence in the 650-670 nm range. Their preliminary results demonstrate effective separation, with some cell populations clearly distinguished from others based on fluorescent frequency. There are some limitations to the current procedure. The partial autofluorescence separation is incomplete, and can vary for the same subject between samplings. However, as the authors note, “the ability to separate out even one contributor [subset] may render the remaining mixture more interpretable in downstream DNA analysis.” This ability, coupled with automatic fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS) and automatic DNA mixture data analysis (e.g., TrueAllele computing), could be quite powerful. Joint Bayesian analysis of multiple STR samplings of low-level DNA mixtures can recover considerable identification information 3 . The autofluorescence method reported here could produce analogous data by taking FACS samplings at different fluorescent frequencies. Joint computer analysis of these different frequency-sampled STR amplifications would then complete the (mathematical) mixture separation into informative (probabilistic) genotypes. The authors propose a novel front-end DNA separation method. As with most front-end methods, the cell separation is incomplete. However, their autofluorescence separation can become more complete if used in conjunction with other front-end discrimination methods. Moreover, combining their front-end cell separation with available back-end computer data separation 1 , 3 could extract considerable identification information from complex DNA mixtures. References 1. Perlin MW, Legler MM, Spencer CE, Smith JL, et al.: Validating TrueAllele® DNA mixture interpretation. J Forensic Sci . 2011; 56 (6): 1430-47 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 2. Budowle B, Onorato AJ, Callaghan TF, Della Manna A, et al.: Mixture interpretation: defining the relevant features for guidelines for the assessment of mixed DNA profiles in forensic casework. J Forensic Sci . 2009; 54 (4): 810-21 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text 3. Ballantyne J, Hanson EK, Perlin MW: DNA mixture genotyping by probabilistic computer interpretation of binomially-sampled laser captured cell populations: combining quantitative data for greater identification information. Sci Justice . 2013; 53 (2): 103-14 PubMed Abstract | Publisher Full Text Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. I confirm that I have read this submission and believe that I have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Perlin M. Reviewer Report For: Analysis of red autofluorescence (650-670nm) in epidermal cell populations and its potential for distinguishing contributors to 'touch' biological samples [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :180 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8645.r18017 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-180/v1#referee-response-18017 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Verdon TJ. Reviewer Report For: Analysis of red autofluorescence (650-670nm) in epidermal cell populations and its potential for distinguishing contributors to 'touch' biological samples [version 1; peer review: 2 approved] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :180 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8645.r16701 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-180/v1#referee-response-16701 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 28 Oct 2016 Timothy J Verdon , Victoria Police Forensic Services Department, Melbourne, VIC, Australia Approved VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.8645.r16701 The authors have investigated skin cell analysis by FACS in forensic biological analysis, and present some results which shed some light on the potential, or lack thereof, for this kind of technique. The experiment is technically sound and well presented, and ... Continue reading READ ALL 