This article provides a helpful overview of the state of open access in the UK. Coming from a similar perspective as the author (working in scholarly communication at a university in the US), the focus of this piece was helpful to consolidate what often sounds like a lot of momentum toward open access from the UK. Between the title and the abstract, I was expecting a different paper than was presented; for example, perhaps a more appropriate title would be Cash, carrots and sticks: A Survey of Recent Developments in Open Access in the United Kingdom. Extrapolating from the abstract, I had hoped the article would begin with the UK, but also include the international perspectives on scholarly communication issues from Australia, Latin America and Asia. The organization of the paper could be improved by grouping sections a little differently. I see 3 major sections in the work, Intro/background context, Current Topics in ScholComm, and Survey/Results. The Overview of OA developments could easily be appended to the Introduction section, followed by a top level heading introducing all the current topics around which the author constructed the survey: The Finch Report, RCUK, Green vs. Gold, Megajournals, prestige in open access, open access and scholarly societies, and altmetrics vs impact factor. I agree completely with the author that these topics are absolutely at the core of the current scholcomm conversation. Finally, a new section could follow titled Survey, Methodology and Analysis of Responses wherein the author synthesizes the survey responses referring to the context and current issues as necessary. Then, of course, close the paper with a conclusion. Reorganizing the paper would go a long way toward making its findings more digestible and impactful. In many of the responses to the survey questions, the author uses the word or Every time I read that I wondered, does that mean 50%, 75% or 90%? Even with the small sample size numerically representing the responses would be helpful. Also, including the question in the text of the article as it was written in the survey instrument makes the article read choppily. Id prefer to read the question written into prose with the responses; for example, When asked of their opinion on the ride and impact of megajournals like PLoSOne, 15/16 respondents agreed that this type of publishing will grow in popularity in the future. The conclusion could be stronger by changing its focus from detailing each issue (green v. gold, megajournals, societies, etc.) to offering the authors perspective on why or why not the UK seems to be more forward-thinking in terms of open access policy at the governmental level. What is the authors more nuanced understanding of the OA landscape? Further, Id love for the author to propose how this study might be replicated, extended, and expanded to a broader international scope. My own personal perspective is that a global view of how and why open access has real affects is absolutely necessary for the growth of this sub-field of librarianship. The promise of this article to provide an international perspective is exactly what we need. Ill push the author and those reading this piece to work toward that goal.