The authors statement is organised around two discoveries: the highly inflammatory immune profile in Tsimane associated with low prevalence of NCDs, and the increased inflammation in westerners whom participated in a 'Paleo-trek' 1 . From these observations, FKL reach the conclusion that chronic inflammation in the Tsimane protects against NCDs and propose explanations for why this might be the case. We will discuss this assumption in the following sections. First, we disagree with the assumption that Tsimane people stand as an adequate model for the study of the relationship between Low-grade inflammation (LGI) and non-communicable diseases (NCDs). LGI, associated with coronary diseases and other NCDs in westerners, is usually not triggered by specific stimuli such as infection or injury 2 , but strongly associated with other risk factors such as stressful situations 3 and excess of adipose tissue 4 . Tismanes are less mobile than most hunter-gatherers, such as the Hadza - who demonstrate low CPR 5 . This increased sedentisation may be part of the reason they face a heavy parasitic load and bacterial infections 6 likely responsible for their hightened inflammatory response 7 , along with low levels of cholesterol, LDL and HDL. It is also noteworthy that the major comparative study on Tsimane immune function failed to show that after childhood there was any significant increase in CRP, a major low-grade inflammatory marker 7 . The hypothesis that the parasitic burden triggering Th2 response may enhance anti-inflammatory cytokine levels and thus protect against NCDs is interesting. However, the absence of major NCDs risk factors, such as chronic stress, insulin-resistance and elevated fatty acid levels, brings into question the underlying assumption that the Tsimane may face common NCDs. Finally, we strongly reject the authors' conclusion that inflammation may protect against NCDs in Tsimane. Indeed, CRP levels were found to be a positive predictor of non-null coronary artery calcium scores 8 , suggesting CRP might actually be predictive of atherosclerosis, a major NCD, in Tsimane as well. According to the authors, the inflammatory state of the Tsimane could be partly explained by environmental factors also responsible for the pro-inflammatory profile observed in the participants of the Eifel experiment. We will review and discuss two of the hypotheses proposed by FKL to explain this result. First, a ‘forest bathing’ effect would have enhanced innate immune response and therefore result in an increase in CRP levels. Although we do not wish to undermine the potential role of the ‘forest bathing’ effect, to the best of our knowledge no evidence so far suggests that it could have an impact on CRP levels. Most studies focus on NK cells, cortisol levels and bio-markers of endothelial function. As CRP elevation in the Eifel participants failed to reach significance and NK cells were not measured, the ‘forest bathing’ effect remains speculative. Second, as suggested by the authors, exposure to exogenous pathogen associated-molecules could have caused a shift towards Th1 response in Eifel participants. However, there is no evidence to support the assumption that this shift was 'prophylactic' as participants may have well indeed face acute infection from small wounds or respiratory pathogens in a forest environment. In order to strengthen their theoretical argument, the authors could provide references regarding the resolution of chronic inflammation following an episode of acute inflammation. Finally, we would like to suggest another potential origin for the pro-inflammatory immune profile in the Eifel participants. It seems participants exhibit the typical leukocyte count induced by stress and exercise 9 : neutrophilia, lymphopenia and eosinopenia. Such leukocyte pattern is supposedly the result of cortisol-induced cell-migration into peripheral tissue 10 and does not fit with Tsimane leukocyte pattern 7 . Furthermore, exercise-induced response has been shown to gradually decrease in trained athletes. Long-term training is eventually followed by the release of anti-inflammatory cytokines 11 , 12 . Such difference between initial-shock immune response to intense exercise, as undertaken by untrained Eifel participants, and long-term immune adaptation to physical activity brings into question the reliability of the leukogram patterns measured on the fourth day of trek in the Eifel study. A shift towards a more anti-inflammatory pattern could therefore be expected in the Eifel participants after acclimatisation to this new lifestyle, regardless of environmental factors. It is therefore highly speculative that the Eifel participants’ immune profile would be a good model for the immune pattern of a Paleo-population. 