Cyrface is a welcome addition to the Cytoscape ecosystem; nicely complementary to RCytoscape. My only reservation is one which applies to my own work (the aforementioned RCytoscape), indeed as well as all parts of the Cytoscape ecosystem. My reservation has two parts: First: network biology is in its infancy and as such experimental data are woefully incomplete. Molecular interactions are stochastic, contingent and often very short-lived yet it is exactly these molecular interactions that we need to understand in order to predict and control cellular activity in health and disease. Second: it is (and may remain) unusual to find researchers, much less clinicians, who are adept at both programming and biomedicine. These two disciplines seem to select for, and then reinforce, different styles of thinking. Therefore progress in this field (call it network biology, or systems biology, or integrative biomedicine) requires hybrid teams: some who are very strong in biological and/or clinical sensibilities and some who are strong in computation and data analysis. Such a hybrid team, at its best, stays together long enough for mutual understanding and communication to emerge, as in the "trading language" which emerged in the world of particle physics in and around linear accelerators in the 60's (see Peter Galison's "Image and Logic"). I worry about the following scenario for Cyrface: a capable programmer hooks up the latest and greatest Bioconductor package to Cytoscape, exposes as best they can the parameterizations offered by that package, and turns the tool over to their collaborating biologist. Experimental data is loaded and analyses or simulations run. Puzzles and inconclusive results will inevitably emerge, requiring detailed knowledge of both the strengths and weaknesses of the Bioc package. With good luck, perseverance and good data, this small working team may in time settle on a satisfactory Cyrface tool which can be reused without the constant intervention of the programmer. This will last until new data is acquired, upsetting the equilibrium, and the hybrid style of work and the back-and-forth between biologist and programmer, begins anew. I say that I worry about this scenario. It may be exactly the intended use of Cyrface; the problem it is intended to solve. But this essentially sociological characteristic (requirement?) of Cyrface is not described in the paper. I think that those of us who create bioinformatics software tend to avoid being explicit about this - and I think that this (the social collaborative requirements of bioinformatic research) deserves a lot more attention. If indeed network biology, as I claim, is in its infancy, then it may be helpful if the ecosystem of Cytoscape-related tools are considered from this perspective. I suspect that the conclusions we might all (mostly) agree upon are: User-friendly exploration of data-rich networks in a web browser (as with cytoscape.js) will become increasingly popular. That user-friendliness often competes with analytical nuance and close scrutiny - biologically and clinically useful results become less likely. Cyrface's connection of Cytoscape to R is a great step in the right direction, marrying as it does user-friendliness with some new analytical power in a way that is nicely complementary to Cytoscape java plugins and Cytoscape access to web services. Thus, Cyrface is a good step in the right direction. The next steps, it seems to me, include: Providing easy connections to R (python, C++) analyses for cytoscape.js A standard mechanism whereby scripts (R, python, Ruby, Perl) upon execution, can start up a Cytoscape or cytoscape.js session, customize it with networks, functions, buttons and menus, and with both public and laboratory data. As a generalization of Cyrface, this mechanism would encourage the rapid expansion of Cytoscape capabilities. These possible next steps carry on in the spirit of Cyrface, RCytoscape, and Cytoscape3 apps, and will promote the creation of, and sharing of, custom network analyses, shared tools, and lead to fruitful collaborations across the hybrid community of biologists, physicians and programmers.