It is an innovating work, well written and accurately described that describes a (short-term) successful surgical technique to implant a wireless telemetry device in calves. I just miss a bit more “general” information about arterial hypertension studies to have an idea on how long should such studies be, and to justify the election of large animal models. On the other side, this study has to be understood as preliminary work and results, with several issues susceptible to be improved. Specific suggestions would be, the reduction of the size of the devices to be implanted, in order to make possible the use of minimally invasive surgery, and in order to avoid, mainly, any rib resection. Other more specific comments are the following: Preorperative care, first paragraph; the age of the calves 82 m old) are justify with a reference (the 6 th ). I suggest to take the following reference instead of or additive to the 6 th : The median age stated in this very recent study for respiratory problems in dairy calves is 29-60 days of age. 1 Regarding the following paragraph of this section, a very detailed description is written about how the calves were managed during the time before arriving at the hospital. However, it would be more useful to know how long the calves were at the hospital before the surgeries were performed. Days? weeks? And information about how they were managed at the hospital the days before and after the surgery (feeding, m2/animal, individual housing or not…). How long did the halter training take? Paragraph “Postoperative recovery”; It is stated that one administration of meloxicam was given. I would rather advise to repeat the meloxicam treatment once more (every three or two days, at least twice), such that the analgesia is assured for longer time, specifically when a rib had to be resected. Results section; In this section, under the Postoperative recovery subsection, it is stated that “Calves remained healthy until the end of the study 18-days (Calf 1) and 17-days (Calf 3) post-surgery.” Did the calves die after those time periods? Or were they still alive? Could we have this information? I do ignore how long a cardiovascular study hypoxia-induced pulmonary arterial hypertension should ideally last, but to know how long those calves live after the surgery, would be a relevant information to consider performing this surgery by other research groups. Finally, a more detailed description on how the calves recovered (not only intake, but feeding and social behavior, vocalizations, pain score, etc.) is desireble. 