 The significance of this retrospective study is pretty limited as the hypothesis (which is not novel) is applied to a target population that is highly heterogeneous in terms of the underlying conditions requiring the use of steroid therapy. The included patients suffer from auto-immune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, SLE), cancers (multiple myeloma), temporal arteritis all of which could be affecting the risk of side-effects. In addition, treatment duration is also another factor susceptible of affecting the course of side effects that were seen. Some patients require lifelong therapy (10 mg/day) while others have been treated for only 18 months (and 4 weeks). Dosage and the type of corticosteroids (prednisone and dexamethasone) are not consistent among the different groups. To summarize these points, duration, dosage and the underlying causes should be carefully taken into account before setting up the inclusion/exclusion criteria since they all represent factors susceptible of greatly impacting on the patients’ response to therapy and susceptibility to side-effects. For example, patients with multiple myeloma are at high risk of developing bacterial infections irrespective of corticosteroid therapy. The other unknown parameter that has not been mentioned is the patients’ adherence to treatment. How was steroid adherence monitored, especially in patients with steroid-related neuropsychiatric adverse effects? Other concerns: The study question of the relative risk of adverse effects in elderly patients treated with long-term corticosteroids is interesting but not novel. Others concerns include the relatively small group size and the fact that there is no relative risk as a form of risk ratio (RR) and odd ratio (OR) attached to the study which, again would require the inclusion of a control group. Adding an equal number of hospitalized patients of the same age group but different diagnoses excluding the use steroid therapy would have been possibly a better control group. 