Overall the paper could be quite impactful and the software they developed can be highly usable. But the paper doesn’t read well. I assume the authors intended to write a research paper, not a technical note. All of my comments are based on this assumption. The authors need to put more efforts to convince ordinary users that StatePaintR is more powerful compared to a single model trained on relevant cell / tissue types. Perhaps expanding from the results in the supplementary section could improve the paper. Why not just train chromHMM or segway given current chip-seq tracks? What’s a clear advantage of the rule-based method? I don' think the rule-based method can clearly estimate underlying model complexity of epigenomics. I think this is too important information to be omitted: In direct comparisons, we found that our own annotations exhibited greater similarity to the combined analysis than to either of the Segway or ChromHMM tracks separately (not shown). Whatever the protocol, the basic problem persists; machine-learning is able to provide insight into what the categories are, but not how many categories there should be. Currently this remains the exclusive province of the biologist. Does this method help prioritize relevant cell / tissue types? Description in the method section is fuzzy. I think a complete paper needs to be self-contained without looking up definitions and terminology from other sources. However, many terms are either vaguely used or never defined. Moreover, the method section needs to be better organized in a top-down fashion instead of enumerating what were implemented. Figure 1 is confusing and not so informative. Why don’t you include real-world example such as chip-seq or methylation tracks? Perhaps you can combine Table 1 with Figure 1. First of all, is Table 1 really necessary? Why do you need both binary and decimal code (I know why but it is irrelevant to the main story of this paper)? It is probably better to show graphical examples how you assign decimal values. How do you define information content? How do you define enrichment? How do you calibrate significance? Is Beta-Binomial reasonable assumption? There are more examples in the background. Do you estimate Beta-Binomial by moment-matching of posterior distribution or maximum-likelihood? y-axis labels are either missing or badly named (Fig 3 and 4). As future direction, how easy is it to implement user-defined enrichment models / methods? 