This paper aims to determine to what extent Akt regulates the transcriptional landscape in TCR/CD28 activated CD4 T cells. While a considerable amount is known regarding Akt regulation of gene expression in activated CD8 cytotoxic T cells ( McIntyre et al. , 2011 Immunity 34(2) 224-236 ) less information exists with respect to CD4 T cells. Indeed it is true, as the authors say, that Akt may have distinct roles in different T cell subsets. Therefore, determining the role of Akt in controlling the transcriptome in CD4 T cell subsets addressed an important and relevant question. However, the data would have been of a much higher value had this study been carried out in primary T cells rather than a CD4 T cell line. There is no reason that using primary CD4 T cells would not have been feasible and I struggle to understand why this was not done. Therefore, this data needs to be viewed with this major caveat in mind. I have substantial concerns regarding the concentration of Akti1/2 that is used in this study. In CD8 T cells 1M Akti1/2 is sufficient to completely block all Akt activity. This study uses 10M, 10 times the dose used in CD8 T cell. When using kinase inhibitors, it is extremely important to use the lowest dose that effectively inhibits the kinase activity, as excessive doses can have increased off target effects. For example it has been shown that Akti1/2 has multiple off target effects at 10M when screened against a panel of 80 kinases ( Bain J, et al., 2007, Biochem. J. 408, 297-315 ). Additionally, in CD8 Cytotoxic T cells, 10M Akti1/2 is toxic and compromises cell viability, a clear demonstration of off target effects (unpublished data). The authors should demonstrate that they are using the minimum effective dose and consider what aspect of the results that they present in this paper might be due to off target effects of the Akti1/2 compound. With respect to their data, the authors discuss the role of Foxo transcription factors as Akt substrates and there role in CD4 T cells despite the fact that they have little to no evidence that the activity of Foxo transcription factors are altered in response to Akt inhibition in this model. They state Klf6 as a Foxo target. The authors must clearly reference the work that describes Klf6 as a Foxo Target . At best Klf6 is an obscure Foxo target gene. There are numerous well defined Foxo targets in T cells, Klf2 for example, yet the absence of these Foxo target genes in the Akti1/2 regulated gene lists is not discussed at all. A minor point, in the text it is stated that CREB was one of the transcription factors predicted by TFactS to be altered in activity (bottom of page 5), yet CREB does not appear in the corresponding figure (Figure 6).