The authors provided a cross section study to evaluate the predictor of oocyte quality 30 poor responders undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) and found the expression of luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR) was important to predict the oocyte quality of poor responders or non-poor responders, but the former is a positive correlation and the latter is a negative correlation. The current study showed oocyte quality could be predicted by oocyte-surrounding granulosa cells. Although the study is interesting, there are some issues worthy of further discussion. For the definition of poor responders, it is very clear. The key factor of the criteria is a poor ovarian reservation (Chern et al. , 2018 1 , Li et al. , 2018 2 , Tsui et al. , 2017 3 , Lin et al. , 2017 4 , Lin et al. , 2017 5 , Lin et al. , 2017 6 , Lin et al. , 2015 7 , Tsui et al. , 2015 8 , Tsui et al. , 2014 9 ). Even though there was an adequate protocol for ovary stimulation, the total number of the oocytes retrieved is limited. By contrast, high responders are often risky for the development of ovary hyperstimulation syndrome, and the total number of oocytes retrieved is too many. In clinical practice, polycystic ovary syndrome (PCO) might be one of the best examples. Although the ratio of LH/FSH is abandoned in the diagnostic criteria of PCO, we can predict the serum level of LH is higher in the high responders, which might be secondary to the relative “hyperandrogenism”. Although the authors used the non-poor responders as control, it is not clear that the similar finding could be applied in high responders. The study material of granulosa cells might be interesting. Is there any difference of LHR expression between different populations of granulosa cells (oocyte surrounding granulosa cell (cumulus cells) or follicle-type granulosa cells)? (Lin et al. , 2017 4 , Tsui et al. , 2014 9 ). Since the significant difference of dosage of LH trigger between poor responders and non-poor responders was noted, it is rational to suppose the LHR expression will be different between two groups (Lin et al. , 2017 6 ). The correlation between the ligand and receptor should be introduced in much more detail. Membrane-type receptor and nuclear-type receptor expression might be varied greatly or conflicted dramatically when the different dosage of ligands is provided. Down regulation and overexpression might be the secondary effect. In addition, if the oocyte quality is positively correlated with LHR expression in poor responders, the absolute qualification of the amount of LHR might be needed. It is relatively unusual that the same amount of the hormone profiles will result in the different clinical patterns. If this condition is real, how would the normal range of hormone profile in the clinical practice be obtained? The authors should consider it with much more concern. Oocyte quality is often recognized by morphological classification. If more markers could be used in much more scientific or quantitative patterns, it is welcome. However, the easy-to-use rule and reproducibility might be important. 