This paper has analyzed the correlation between citations received by WoS articles, reviews and conference papers in the field of Pediatrics and their altmetrics scores obtained from altmetric.com. It is a very descriptive study. It make sense to do such an analysis for the field of Pediatrics as one of major fields of scientific publication in Iran, according to the authors. However, there are lots of altmetrics studies that have used correlation analysis between altmetrics and bibliometrics indicators as this paper and hence this is not a new topic, doesn’t contribute to the altmetrics literature and hence has no added value. It is not clear the importance of this study, lacking enough relation, in other words, what gaps is going to be filled and for what reasons? Also, to my idea, the paper needs major revisions in terms of English language (grammar, use of identifier such as the, etc. and not well written) and lacks sufficient justification of the study and interpretation of the results and other issues that are explained below. Hence, I don't suggest the paper for indexing due to these and the following reasons: The introduction needs stronger justification in terms of the aim of this study since correlation between altmetrics and citations has been done before in many studies and is not a new thing; The part including objective and aim of the study overlaps and repeated several times, the repeated sentences should be merged and summarized in one or two sentences. The review of the literature on the correlation between altmetrics is not comprehensive and it misses some major studies which were done based on WoS, Scopus and PubMed databases across different fields. Additionally, the study by Thelwall et al. (2013) 1 or the one by Haustein, et. al (2013) 2 , or other relevant studies are missing here in which they have done the same correlation with all the indicators from altmetric.com across medical fields. It would be nice to compare the results of the above papers in terms of coverage, proportion, and correlation analysis, etc. with the result of the current study. Regarding the following sentence the same holds true for altmetrics as well since motivation for tweeting scholarly papers is not known as well : “it is not possible to become aware of the citation motives. For example, citations might be given to criticize or reject a certain theory” I don’t agree with the following statement, the sentence should be rephrased: “Since the use of social media has increased during the past few years, article coverage using altmetric scores has also increased during these years, and as a result it is better that scientific citations and altmetric scores complement each other and be evaluated more for recent articles 3 ” This sentence should be removed, it seems that it is a translation from Persian language and is not common to use it in the paper: “This is a practical study of an analytical descriptive type, and the research methodology is scientometric”. Regarding the methodology, the authors have used different identifiers. I wonder how the authors handle duplicates in terms of papers with more than one identifier? Please clarify it in more details in the paper. Also, I would suggest to provide the % and details of data collection in a table. A descriptive table of the data set with citations, altmetrics, coverage, and percentage, etc. is lacking. In the result section, I would suggest to add the proportion next to the raw values. For example, page 5: “it was found that 256 articles were mentioned in Mendeley…”, better to add the % next to 256 articles both in the text and in a descriptive table that explained above. “Outcomed” should be replaced with ‘collected’ in the following sentence: “From 1332 articles, the aforementioned identifiers were obtained for 1138 articles. All 1138 articles having identifiers were searched using the Webometric Analysis software (v.2 beta student) and also altmetric.com API in order to find the altmetric score and details of the scores. A total of 256 articles had an altmetric score then the citations number of these 256 articles were outcomed using the HistCite software”. please replace “evaluated” with “searched” using DOI: “All 1332 articles were initially added to Endnote and were evaluated using the DOI and PUBMED ID. Then, articles that had none of the aforementioned identifiers were searched through "find reference updates" button on EndNote to complete reference information and obtain their DOI or PMID”. Also regarding comparing citations with altmetrics score, comparing citations with individual altmetrics (tweet, Mendeley, etc.) is fine but with the aggregated altmetrics score is not recommended since it is a combined score of different altmetrics and doesn’t include all metrics in the score, the weight is also different for different source. To my idea it is better to use “received by” or other equivalents instead of “allotted” in the following sentence: “The highest number of citations was allotted to 2010, 2011 and 2013, and the highest altmetric scores were allotted to 2013, 2015 and 2016, respectively. In the following section and some other parts, “evaluated” and “eliminated” should be replaced by “analysed or studied” and “excluded”: “Relationship between altmetric data sources and altmetric score. In order to evaluate the effectiveness and relationship of each of the data sources in the altmetric score, the correlation between number of mentions and readers in altmetric data sources with the altmetric score was also evaluated. However, as it was previously mentioned, social media, including Google Plus, Pinterest, Reddit, and F1000, were eliminated …”. “impacts” should be replaced by “impact”. The following statement is very strong and it is not true to mention that due to the existence of correlation, altmetrics can be used for evaluation disregarding challenges and quality issues for altmetrics data: “The present findings indicate that there is a direct correlation between the altmetric score and number of received citations for articles. Therefore, it seems that altmetrics can also be considered as a tool alongside scientific citations for the evaluation of scientific publication impacts”. The sentence should be rephrased: “Therefore, regardless of citations, which are a better indication of the effectiveness of older articles, evaluation of new scientific publications may be better specified by altmetric score”. Page 7: discussion, ‘are’ should be removed: “the correlation between altmetrics scores has are been ….). I would suggest to distinguish between altmetrics score and individual altmetrics in the paper. Altmetrics score is the aggregated and combined score calculated by altmetric.com and which doesn’t include all altmetrics in its calculation but individual altmetrics refers to reader counts, tweets, etc. Also, for Mendeley reader counts, it is better to use Mendeley API than altmetric.com for reader counts. It is better to report the correlation coefficients like r=0.01 instead of 0/01. Also, to my knowledge, it is not common to report the p value for correlation in the table. Also, the authors need to specify the type of correlation analysis (Pearson or Spearman) they have used, due to the skewness of altmetrics and citations Spearman correlation analysis is suggested. The results and discussion part needs to be strengthen regarding discussing the current results, comparing them with other studies, and their interpretation. The current format is very descriptive. Also, might be good to provide some recommendations. 