Core data resources for the global biological research community are essential for the progress of science. Financial support for such resources is not guaranteed even given high usage and a clear need from the community. The authors of this paper describe 12 different ways to fund a core bioinformatics data resource like UniProt and advocate the adoption of the ‘infrastructure model’ for such a purpose. General Comments: 1. The authors discuss a very important issue and raise excellent points on the value and necessity of curation and how paying for curation is not ‘paying again for already paid for information’. They also make the valid point that while many highly used resources are used globally, they are financially supported by only a fraction of their users. An equitable distribution of the financial burden of data resource maintenance and improvement is a desirable goal. 2. We think it would be useful to reexamine the criterion that open access equals free access. The paper defines open-access as “digital online, free of charge, and free of most copyright and licensing restrictions”. We propose that charging a modest fee that most of the community can afford in combination with mechanisms to enable access for those who can't afford it does not prevent access of the resource by those who need it. Comments on the Overview of existing funding models: 1) Models 7 and 8 are not clearly distinguished, these should probably be combined. 2) Model 10, 'online advertising and corporate sponsorship', appears to us to be a mixed model. 3) Some discussion of the 'pay to submit' model would be helpful, it is not clear why this model was not included. Example is the Dryad Digital Repository (http://datadryad.org/). 4) The Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (CCDC, https://www.ccdc.cam.ac.uk/) is an important example of the freemium model that should be included. 5) Model 11, Open source volunteering, doesn’t belong in income generating models. Even though this is stated later in the manuscript, for clarity it should be removed from this discussion. Comments on the Recommendation of the Infrastructure Model The proposed advantages of the infrastructure model strongly depend on the details of its implementation. In particular, the mechanism of allocation across existing and new resources will be challenging to design in a way that is: a) fair across countries and research disciplines, b) provides sufficient support to resources across a spectrum of resources ranging from those requiring intensive curation and therefore higher cost to resources with a less intensive approach and associated lower costs, c) provides a way to reevaluate the distribution periodically and shift resources where they are most needed, d) preserves some incentive for resources to maintain high quality and serve their users well, e) in spite of the possibility for shifting resources, still enables long term planning and is stable enough to ensure long term sustainability. In practice, this model will likely necessitate some sort of periodic evaluation of each existing or new resource to determine which will be funded and at what level; in other words, a mechanism that is very like a grant process. Careful planning would be required to avoid the acknowledged drawbacks of the existing grant funding paradigm. We think a discussion of some of these issues would improve the paper and enable a fairer comparison against existing funding mechanisms where the implementation details have been extensively worked out and the drawbacks are therefore more clear. A few points of clarification on TAIR, the resource with which we, the authors of these comments, are associated. 1. The paper classifies TAIR (as currently funded) as an example of the “User Subscription Fees’ model. We think it should be considered a Mixed Model as its revenue derives in part from the National model (China and Switzerland country-level subscriptions), in part from the User Subscription Fees model (academic institutional, individual, and corporate subscribers), and in part from the Foundation model (Sloan Foundation grant). There are also elements of the Freemium model as non-subscribers have some free page views before encountering a monthly limit. 2. The paper states, “TAIR is actually also supported by a grant from the SLOAN Foundation, which allowed the transition to the subscription-based funding model.” TAIR had already transitioned to subscription funding before the Sloan grant was received and funding from the Sloan Foundation was “to enhance the technology behind TAIR’s subscription funding model” and “[develop] a next-generation, flexible and customizable technology platform capable of serving other databases and research resources wishing to shift to user-based funding.” 