The authors reported an interesting clinical and molecular case of a rare entity; this is enough to find the merit to index this case; considering the pathology I would not be surprised by an infection, and not focus in the title on the “unusual Aspergillus infections”; the mutation detected has been already reported, phenotype is typical and it would be of interest knowing something about life quality and expectancy for the incoming years since XL-HED-ID is quite a challenge with all the complications which might arise from the disease. A reference is attached not mandatory indeed to be cited. I recommend to change the title suggesting to be more general (i.e Clinical and molecular study in a case of X linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency).The abstract should begin with an introduction on Ectodermal Dysplasia (EDs) in general and after mentioning the most common form XL-HED, AD-HED etc caused by EDA gene or EDAR, EDARADD, WNT10A could continue and go deep in the analysis of NEMO gene features. Design, methods and analysis of the results from the study have not been explained and do not clarify the data exposed and results. Conclusions are sensible, balanced and justified on the basis of the results of the study although no novel findings are reported. Good information has been provided but indeed more figures such as electropherogram of the mutation, pedigree of the family, OMIM number of the disease, methodology of sequencing plus few more references are required. Furthermore mentioning clinical features (i.e peculiar conical shaped primary –better than “lacteal”- teeth, agenesis better than “agenesia”, sparse hair) a picture of the proband and/or radiographic examination such as orthopantomography should be added. References 1. Callea M, Faletra F, Maestro A, Verzegnassi F, et al.: Dental Phenotype in a Patient with Hypoidrotic Ectodermal Dysplasia and Severe Immunodeficiency. Journal of International Dental and Medical Research . 2011; 4 (1). Competing Interests: No competing interests were disclosed. We confirm that we have read this submission and believe that we have an appropriate level of expertise to confirm that it is of an acceptable scientific standard, however we have significant reservations, as outlined above. Close READ LESS CITE CITE HOW TO CITE THIS REPORT Callea M and Cammarata-Scalisi F. Reviewer Report For: Case Report: X-linked recessive anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency and an unusual Aspergillus infection [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2606 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10548.r20187 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2606/v1#referee-response-20187 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in all citations of this article. COPY CITATION DETAILS Report a concern Respond or Comment COMMENT ON THIS REPORT Views 0 Cite How to cite this report: Nunoi H. Reviewer Report For: Case Report: X-linked recessive anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency and an unusual Aspergillus infection [version 1; peer review: 2 approved with reservations] . F1000Research 2016, 5 :2606 ( https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10548.r18174 ) The direct URL for this report is: https://f1000research.com/articles/5-2606/v1#referee-response-18174 NOTE: it is important to ensure the information in square brackets after the title is included in this citation. Close Copy Citation Details Reviewer Report 02 Dec 2016 Hiroyuki Nunoi , Division of Pediatrics, Department of Developmental and Urological-Reproductive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki, Japan Approved with Reservations VIEWS 0 https://doi.org/10.5256/f1000research.10548.r18174 The authors reported a case with hypomorphic IKBKG mutation of a 7-year-old boy with disseminated BCGitis and unusual Aspergillus infection, who was successfully treated and prohibited with INH and RIF, in addition to IVIG administration. But any evidence about ... Continue reading READ ALL 