The work of Sean Ekins and colleagues describes an attempt to predict the 3D structure of a number of Zika Virus proteins by homology modeling. Infections by Zika virus are seriously preoccupying the population and governments of endemic countries, with particular attention to pregnant women. Indeed, the most serious complications of infections by Zika virus have been observed in pregnant women (i.e. microencephalic fetus). However, the evidence that pregnant women are most affected by Zika virus infection, set some difficulties in developing focused therapeutic strategies, as nicely discussed by the authors. However, in this respect, which is the scenario proposed by authors for a candidate inhibitor of Zika virus replication. Why this molecule should be useful, and how pregnant women could deal with the administration of the drug? Overall, the work is well written and organized in a clear and rational way, even if no experimental validation of the work carried out in silico is proposed. Accordingly, conclusions of this work are merely speculative. My major concern is on the usability of the protein structures for drug design or virtual screening, as claimed by the authors in the abstract and discussion. Indeed, sequence identity between template and target sequences is rather low in some cases ( 60 %). Moreover, the atomistic detail of the active site and its conformation may vary noticeably in the models depending on the program used, the force field, the level of refinement (algorithm, steps, solvent model, …) and the quality of the template structure. All these variables should be taken into consideration by the authors, and the refinement of 3D models should be at least attempted or discussed in deeper details. In my personal opinion, details on the conservation rate, sequence identity and structural similarity of the binding sites would be more helpful for drug design purposes. Finally, an experimental validation of at least one of the structures modeled by authors (i.e. the most promising target for drug designing studies) should be provided. In fact, analysis with PROCHECK or the use of numerical scores is not sufficient to validate a 3D structure generated by homology modeling. There is a high risk that molecular docking towards a low-resolution structure could provide unrealistic results. The paper can be accepted after revision.