The article by Lopez-Ayon et al. compares the calcium (Ca 2+ ) response of osteoblasts to mechanical forces resulting from 2 types of well-defined micro-damages, namely a local membrane deformation and a micro-injury. An atomic force microscope is advantageously used to control and modulate these 2 types of stretching effects. In its present form, the article is already well structured, rich in new experimental results and easy to read. However, their message would be more complete if authors were considering the following points. Major comments Concerning methodological aspects: Since the probe calibration is very important for AFM measurements, authors should provide more details concerning this indispensable step. For instance, the method used to determine the spring constant of the probe is never mentioned. There is a non negligible hydro-drag force applied to the cantilever when it is moved at speed of 20 m/s. If this aspect is not taken into account, the effective forces applied to cells and the energy spent to deform the membrane may be overestimated. A comment should be provided concerning this point. The method used to quantify the Ca 2+ concentration is based on the analysis of averaged intensity in a predetermined zone drawn on the images acquired by fluorescent microscopy. So, signal intensity could depend on the layer which is in focus. The increase in intensity might thus be to the fact that cell is locally compressed leading to the generation of a calcium flow toward the basal cell face which is in focus. This additional effect should be appropriately discussed. Concerning Results and Discussion: The authors write in page 4 that: "When consecutive low load indentation were performed at the same location on the same cell multiple local responses were induced". This results is indeed comforted by the calcium concentration images shown at 6 s in Fig 2B. Multiple calcium spots are visible at 6 s on the non magnified cellular image, suggesting that a local mechanical effect may induce multiple (and durable) distant yet local effects. Such a mechanically induced signaling at a distance has been largely described and commented by the group of Ning Wang presently working at University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign (e.g., Wang et al., 2009 ). Clearly a tensed cytoskeleton plays a key role in such a distant phenomena and using, e.g., cytochalasin D, would have been of interest to prove that the distant local effects are related to the tensed cytoskeleton. Authors should at least comment on this interesting result revealed by the local membrane deformation test. Such an distant effect is not so evident in case of membrane rupture suggesting (since mechanical effect become global) important modifications for the cytoskeleton between the two types of stress studied. These distant effects could advantageously be analyzed and quantified. It is not clear whether the cells are tested in isolated conditions (like in Fig 2B) or with some degree of confluence (like in Fig 2E)... In the latter case, mechano-chemical interactions between cells could play a role in calcium signaling. This point should be clarified all along the paper. Detailed comments Figures 1A, 1B seem to show the culture at higher confluence than 50-70% as used for experiments. The linear fits in Fig. 5 A, B, C dont represent the decay of peaks. 