This article serves as a proof of concept. It tests the idea, previously published, that if spatial and electrostatic similarities between cognate pairs of residues are predictive of catalytic function, then aligning two proteins to match 4 cognate pairs of residues ought to identify the binding site in a novel/target protein. The alignment process additionally provides the pose of the ligand in the target protein, if the matching is conducted with a holoenzyme. As a proof of concept, the article is scientifically sound. Major observations: It would be desirable to provide more testing sets. That is, expand the evaluation to more than binding of vildagliptin to PI-PLC. It is trivial to do so. The authors can use known protein-ligand complex cases, treat them as unknown effectively, and test whether they are able to reproduce the binding pose for the ligand. Expanding the test set will also improve the evaluation of the proposed DOCLASP protocol. The selected case study is presented in detail, but how would one determine the effectiveness of the method at a large scale? What would be summary results on application of DOCLASP on a set of test cases? The author states that a limitation of the method, as a template-based one, is the availability of protein-ligand pairs with known structures. Given the growth in structural data, this is bound to be less of a limitation now as opposed to ten years ago. However, what needs to be discussed is the sensitivity of the method. Is the author reliant on structures with good resolution? What would this be? If an X-ray structure has 2.5A or lower resolution as opposed to 1.5, should the results be trusted less? Following on above, if two different poses are obtained by matching with two different holoenzymes, and one of the holoenzymes has resolution 2.5 but the other has resolution 1.5, should this be considered in what pose is recommended for the ligand in the binding protein? What is the reliance of predictions on quality of input? In case of pose discrepancies from diversity of quality of holoenzymes, would energetic minimization help converge to the right pose? This would be an interesting experiment to conduct. In particular, the experiment can suggest that a specific threshold in quality is needed for the minimization to converge to the right pose. Minor: Consider using a different symbol to denote the number of holoenzymes, M, from the symbol used to denote motif, M. In particular, this can cause confusions regarding equation (5). P1...PM relates to the set of holoenzymes, whereas M1^{PM} relates to best-scoring motif extracted from the last holo-enzyme, PM. Given that there are M holoenzymes, it is unclear whether the method produces M possible poses for the ligand, or if these poses are filtered or joined in some way to provide a super pose. Consider using passive form rather than active "I" form when summarizing future work. 