The availability of appropriate platelet function assays and thrombosis models is crucial to study mechanisms, which regulate the initiation and development of platelet rich thrombi, responsible for myocardial infarction and stroke. The study of specific proteins through altering expression levels in vitro is not possible in platelets since they do not have a nucleus. The use of genetically modified mice has therefore been crucial in furthering our understanding of platelet biology over the last two decades. European and UK legislations require that all animal procedures, are given suitable consideration to the 3Rs; reduction, refinement and replacement. In this review, Taylor and Emerson highlight some of the key developments in the platelet field, promoting the 3Rs principles, and discuss recent application of these developments. Critically, the review emphasises that impact on the 3Rs, can only be achieved through uptake of alternative technologies by the scientific community, which remains a significant challenge. The review gives a brief but comprehensive summary of recent techniques, which have had a significant impact on reducing animal numbers used in ex vivo platelet studies. These techniques allow for smaller blood volumes to yield meaningful functional data, reducing the number of animals sacrificed. Further on going research optimising flow cytometry techniques by the Emerson group, may ultimately lead to the acquisition of platelet function and signalling data, in blood samples obtained by micro-sampling. This could replace the need for blood collection methods such as cardiac puncture, which are performed under terminal anaesthesia. A brief mention is given to the existing vascular damage models of thrombosis. The authors should be cautious in this section, to be specific with the model that they are referring to and avoid over-generalization. While it is true that arterial thrombosis, mediated by ferric chloride (FeCl3 ) and measured by vascular occlusion can only asses one thrombi per animal and data is variable, this is not the case for laser injury, analysed by intravital microscopy. In this model, in excess of 20 thrombi can be analysed per animal and as few as 3 animals used in each experimental group 1 , 2 . The review highlights the importance of endothelial derived platelet inhibitors in regulating thrombosis and haemostasis, and using nitric oxide as an example, indicates that vascular injury models have yielded contradicting results. While I am in agreement with this, I do not think that the approaches in the cited studies can be referred to as similar. Differences in animal age, the mode and extent of vascular damage, and the type of vessel studied likely reflects the different results reported. Even studies using FeCl3 to injure the carotid artery vary significantly when FeCl3 is applied at different concentrations or for different lengths of time 3 . As part of the discussion around measuring endothelial contributions to thrombosis, the authors state ‘Assessment of the role of endothelial mediators requires, rather than a vascular injury approach, a model in which platelets circulate freely in the context of a functional vascular endothelium, which can be manipulated pharmacologically or genetically.’ While this may be correct in a specific context, the appropriate model to investigate the role of endothelial derived mediators depends very much upon the research question. To investigate, the role of endothelial derived inhibitors on platelet aggregation in vivo, a model where platelets are circulating freely with a functional endothelium is appropriate. If however the contribution of the endothelium to arterial thrombosis or antithrombotic efficacy is being investigated, models, which encapsulate platelet adhesion, aggregation and thrombus stability in arterial conditions, following vascular damage, are more appropriate. It is also important to note that endothelial dysfunction is common in many diseases, which predispose to thrombosis, however currently there are no in vitro or in vivo models available to investigate the impact of this on thrombus generation. The review gives an excellent summary of the thromboembolism model developed by Emerson and colleagues, with well supported statistics of the significant impact on 3Rs that it has had so far. There is also good reference to application of the model in a variety of studies. There is good critique pertaining to limited uptake of the model by the scientific community, and potential reasons for this are discussed. The Emerson group have developed a further model, which is cost-effective, requires minimal training and non-specialised equipment, to try and address some of these issues and overcome the challenge of increased uptake. In summary, this review highlights important work carried out by the Emerson group, supported by the National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research, which has successfully developed, validated and applied refined real-time thromboembolisms models to replace the severe and archaic thromboembolism model that uses mortality or hind limb paralysis as an end-point. Does the review provide an accurate account of the 3Rs landscape in that field / across fields? Yes 