The article is well written and provides a descriptive analysis of the EU PAS Register. This type of research is welcome as an evaluation of the usefulness of the EU PAS Register. The article would benefit from a couple of clarifications: Introduction The EU PAS Register is accessible via the ENCePP website which is hosted and maintained by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The term post-authorisation study (PAS) is not exclusive to observational research and may include interventional study designs (e.g. see definition of post-authorisation safety study in GVP VIII), this should be made clear as the introduction refers to historical ‘criticism’ raised mainly in context of non-interventional research. The majority of studies in the EU PAS Register are non-interventional but also a few RCTs fall under the inclusion criteria applied by the authors for their descriptive study. The EU pharmacovigilance legislation and the requirement to publish PAS imposed as a condition of marketing authorisation in a public register came into force in July 2012, not in 2010 (the new legislation was however published in December 2010). The authors should explain what they mean by ‘approved PAS’. Regulatory approval of PAS is not a guarantee for successful conduct of a study. The EU pharmacovigilance legislation provides for a regulatory procedure to approve protocols of post-authorisation safety studies (PASS) imposed as a condition of marketing authorisation (EU RMP category 1 and 2 studies) before study start to ensure the objectives of the PASS are met and the protocol follows the format requirements. However, this needs to be distinguished from regulatory supervision of EU RMP category 3 studies where prior protocol approval is not required by law (but may be requested to the marketing authorisation holder voluntarily). The general statement above should be balanced, also in the discussion. Like for any other study, relevant scientific guidance should be considered by marketing authorisation holders and investigators for the development of study protocols, the conduct of studies and the writing of study reports (e.g. ENCePP Guide on Methodological Standards in Pharmacoepidemiology, Guidelines for Good Pharmacoepidemiology Practices of the International Society of Pharmacoepidemiology (ISPE GPP) etc.). Methods Clarify if only studies requested by EMA or also by other EU or non-EU regulators have been included in the descriptive analysis. This is important for the discussion of the results on data sources. The authors have chosen 3 distinct study scopes as inclusion criteria, but there might be other studies requested by a regulator which provide insight in trends in study design, data sources and therapeutic areas (a query performed on 27.09.2017 found more than 170 studies requested by a regulator with other scopes). The authors should explain this limitation. Results The presentation of the results on study status, data sources and disease areas may benefit from a breakdown by EU RMP category to show any potential association of with the timelines for conducting studies. The authors do not specify how the disease areas were defined (by ATC code?). Discussion The statement that planned and ongoing studies were far more likely to include a safety element is not clear from the presented results; any study in an EU RMP is linked to a safety concern, only with varying scope i.e. effectiveness of measures implemented to manage risks (e.g. educational materials), changes in drug utilisation (e.g. restricted indication) or risk quantification (e.g. frequency of adverse reactions)? A limitation of the study that may be worth explaining is that the registration of studies is voluntary (except for imposed PASS), and the entries are not verified as to their accuracy. For examples, it is not checked by ENCePP or EMA whether the RMP category entered is correct and corresponds to the outcome of the regulatory procedure. Therefore, there may be some misclassification. For PASS imposed by regulators, the RMP category field may have been incorrectly populated by the company. 