Experimental evaluation of the complex interactions between ion channels in dendritic segments is challenging and inhibitory neuron dendrites are especially difficult to assess using in vivo and in vitro patch-clamp studies. However, understanding channel interactions with synaptic inputs shape integration, AP initiation and propagation is integral to information processing in specific circuits and identifying principles that govern brain function and disease. Guet-McCreight and Skinner approach this issue by adopting detailed multi-compartmental computation models of morphologically reconstructed oriens-lacunosum-moleculare neurons (OLM cells) to examine recruitment of specific ion channels during activity. Specifically, the simulations focus on comparing channel recruitment across somatodendritic compartments under “ in vitro -like states” during somatic current injection in the absence of synaptic input and “in vivo -like state” with E-I balanced synaptic inputs. Using morphological simulations of distinct OLM cells, they highlight the specifically salient role for h-currents under in vivo -like conditions of heightened dendritic synaptic activity. The paper is largely descriptive, and findings are intuitive given the model design. The study provides value in demonstrating the potential application of current-scape plots and computational modeling in assessing synaptic/dendritic behavior and could be strengthened with additional consideration/discussion of the role for Ih in synaptic integration. Major: While it is known that several channels show gradients in somatodendritic distribution the models presented in the study assume uniform dendritic distribution of channels. Given the lack of specific data on distribution, the assumption to distribute channels uniformly is understandable. However, the discussion could speculate how differences in channel distribution may alter the overall conclusions. This is particularly relevant to h-channels which are known to have differential dendritic distributions in certain cell types. The heavy inhibitory bias of in vivo- like inputs is consistent with experimental data. IPSCs are extremely effective in activating h-channels, as such, it is not surprising that h currents are more pronounced in the in vivo- like and sub-threshold conditions rather than during depolarizing current injections which would move the membrane outside the activation range for h-channels. Additionally, the dendritic synapses appear to be scaled up which could further increase h-channel activation during the IPSCs. These aspects warrant discussion. Given the focus on Ih, it may make it easier for the reader if the panels representing Ih data are identified with bold borders or included in a separate figure for discussion. The activation by hyperpolarization and in the subthreshold regimen make Ih different from other channels that activate on depolarization, thus the findings are not surprising. The unique role of Ih in signal integration/ dendritic compartmentalization and how it may contribute to input resistance, the relevance of the relatively slower kinetics of Ih can be better explored. Overall, it is unclear what Figure 4 adds to the manuscript as it compares currents at very different conditions and would be heavily dependent on membrane conductance that differs greatly between these conditions. Minor: Figure 3: the scales are very different for the in vivo and in vitro conditions even for the same parameter making it difficult to compare the differences. This is the only figure presenting absolute values and appropriate scaling would improve the ability to directly compare amplitudes. Utilization of NSG “to find input parameter combinations” is a good start but probably does not fully reflect in vivo activity patterns during behavior. The limitations associated with this should be discussed. Were parameters based on any specific behavior (stimulus/inputs)? Approach and data analysis: apostrophe backwards in parenthesis (‘isolated…’ and ‘behaving…’) Pg. 7: “dis-tal” distal 