The paper addresses an important issue and makes a number of interesting points. There are a couple of technical points that the authors should address. The authors do mention the Twitter Search API, but they say nothing about the Twitter Streaming API. These are two significantly different ways to access the content of Twitter. The Streaming API allows a program to collect all tweets that match a set of keywords as they are issued. In other words, the Search API allows to look backward, while the Streaming API allows to look forward. The authors suggest that it would be possible to build social networks (e.g., using mentions) from social media data, as if this was a future event. Many researchers have already done that, and this is indeed the strength of social media, i.e., access not only to the content of what one says, but the interaction he/she has with others. In spite of the points made by the authors, who try very hard to protect users against themselves, it may be valuable to add a discussion about the fact that as time goes on, there may no longer be any reasonable assumption of privacy in the online world. As recognized by the authors themselves, it is easy to collect all kinds of information from users by considering their profiles, the content they post, and the associations they maintain online. Countless studies have shown how political leaning, sexual orientation, and a number of other sensitive and/or private information can be inferred. This is the nature of the digital world. And for several platforms, such as Twitter, there is already no assumption of privacy. Presumably people put their thoughts, ideas, and emotions out there so others can find them. Usually these bits of information are spread out and users typically dot not consider the possibility that someone (or something, i.e., a machine) can piece them together to infer other information about them, or they do not express them explicitly for research purposes. Nevertheless it can be and is routinely done. This may warrant further discussion. As stated by the authors, when a tweet author (or blog writer) shares data about himself, "he does it to communicate with his digital community." It may be interesting to think that, when the content is public, then among others, researchers are part of that digital community. Unlike Facebook, anyone can follow anyone else on Twitter without the express consent of the individual being followed. In so doing, followers have access to all of the information of the persons they follow. Again, no assumption of privacy there. In turn, it could open the door to exploitation by researchers just the same as others, with the possible advantage that researchers are likely to use the information in a benevolent fashion (like all technologies social media does have two sides). It seems that while possibly protecting the users (although, as stated above, this may be more an illusion than a reality anymore in today's online world), putting too many restrictions on benevolent researchers (that others, especially malevolent individuals readily dispense with) would limit our ability to serve them and address important public health issues. Some discussion of these issues would be welcome.