In this interesting article Martin G. Rosario et al. examined the effect of caffeine on postural control via a pressure mat when a ‘system’ involved in this physiological reflex was compromised. The findings led the investigators to conclude that caffeine caused the study participants – all young healthy adults – to be less stable following caffeine injection. The motivation behind the study was the ever-increasing consumption of caffeinated energy drinks, leading researchers to help build an increased understanding of how these beverages might affect physiology – particularly since caffeine content is typically not fully disclosed on the packaging. Study-Related Considerations: The tests used by the investigators to assess postural control seem rigorous, and carefully considered. However, this reviewer is not familiar with the specifics of the data collected by these pressure platforms. To help readers fully appreciate these details, it might be beneficial to elaborate on the measurements taken by the device. The primary drawback of such studies is often the sample size, and this is the case here as well. It would be ideal to canvas more participants, which of course would require more time for the study, given that the search was limited to the investigating campus. With the small sample size, however, meaningful data can be collected – the statistical analysis of choice should be the Student’s T-test for the before and after treatment comparison. The fact that the study participants were more similar than they were different, despite their gender as evidenced by the analysis of the homogeneity of the samples, lends more credence to the use of the Student’s T-test as a method of analysis – a Bonferroni correction is helpful, as was reported by the authors. Using the T-Test, however, to assess how similar the participants were, seems out of place – this reads like it would be more appropriate for the analysis of variance. So to this reviewer, the statistical choices were reversed. Comparing the participants as their own controls (before and after) instead of a pool of ‘treated and untreated’ unrelated individuals is helpful. However, the drawback is the low level of significance reported in Table 3. To really understand the effect of the caffeine in these measurements, a clearer level of significance is needed. It would be of interest, therefore, to determine the findings with the other statistical test. A larger sample size, of course, can also help, but that might not be possible for the investigators to consider at this time. In the end, it may be that energy drinks and caffeine at these concentrations does not have any effect on postural control as the other publications referenced by the authors note. However, given that these studies are still underway by this and other groups, despite other corroborating evidence, there does seem to be some question into these conclusions. Indeed, despite statistics, which show the contrary in almost all cases, the authors still believe that their study subjects were less stable following the supplementation. As such, it is worth ensuring that the statistics are rigorous to settle the discussion. The authors might also consider presenting their data – the significance levels - in a histogram format – so that the reader can more quickly identify those tests providing the greatest effect – and also directly compare caffeine versus energy drink. This is particularly helpful when the significance values themselves are not considerable. The other point worth noting is the difference in the level of caffeine used for the energy drink group and the caffeine pill group. It is understandable that the authors desired to have their findings be comparable to previous studies using the 200 mg level, but it is also difficult to compare the effect of 160 mg with 200 mg. This reviewer also wonders if the form of the solution – water or an energy drink formulation – pill matrix versus soluble, might also affect the absorption of caffeine. Was the fact that the only significant effect measured by the investigators in Table 3 due to the caffeine level, or due to the formulation of a pill versus an energy drink? Using the same concentration might help to eliminate this confounding factor. The authors do make note of other studies that use weight at a determining factor toward how much caffeine should be administered, however, since the idea is to study the effect of energy drinks (which are consumed by individuals regardless of weight), and because the control for each individual is the subject’s own reactions without the supplementation, this reviewer does not find the method of dosing the subjects of particular concern. Another idea worth considering is the time to effect. The authors mention this interest as well in their discussion. It would be interesting for this reviewer, for example, to see what the effect would be if the participants were also tested one hour or so afterward as well. Is there an effect due to the ‘let down’ of the caffeine that could be detected for example – a ‘crash’ effect? The investigators observed, in their secondary analysis, mentioned prior to the final Dataset 1 link, that there were detectable differences in postural control between the caffeine and energy drink groups during the test, and that the subjects recovered control by 30-second end time. This implies a difference between these two groups that is speculated upon, but not documented – and perhaps would lend more information to the entire story of how caffeine and energy drinks affect physiology. Since the authors have the data, why not report the results at different intervals during the test and not only from those numbers collected at the end? This might provide a better picture of the effect of a) caffeine in general, and b) the energy drink formulation where more than just the caffeine may be at play. Even if the findings from different times prove to also not be statistically significant by the standards given, the trends in the data with time, if shown graphically, might be particularly informative for future studies - and aid the reader with a means to gain a complete ‘picture’ of what the authors observed while running their study, and why they arrived at their conclusions, despite their statistical analysis. Grammatical Considerations: There are a few textual items to be corrected in an updated version of the work. While cosmetic, these minor corrections will improve the overall quality of the document. By way of example: Under Ethical statement: 1) “…choose to partake there were given…” should read “…chose to partake they were given…” 2) “…asked questions related to the study to ensured subjects did understand…” should read “asked questions related to the study to ensure subjects understood…”. The authors should have a careful read of the text to ensure these or other grammatical issues do not distract the reader from their findings. 