The authors describe the results of a survey of Canadian academics on their use of R in their courses and in their own work. While there is good information on the increasing popularity of R on the web, in industry, and in scholarly articles there is far less information on how R is being taught. It is in this important area that the paper provides some much needed insight. In particular, I think many researchers would be surprised to find courses being taught using R in more than half of Canada's universities. Giving other educators this kind of information is tremendously valuable in inducing other educators to also decide to make the jump to R. In particular, being able to point to other universities and courses where R is being successfully taught is a strong argument against common complaints like the learning curve being too steep. While a more systematic examination of R offerings across universities would have more reliable results than this survey, I believe that it still offers valuable (if potentially slightly biased) insights into the basic patterns of R education. The authors results are very encouraging to me as a educator interested in teaching R, but they also show that there is much more we can do in promoting R at other universities as well as growing our own course offerings locally. Major Comments Introduction I think the history as stated underplays the importance of R being free software (particularly as compared to S), this aspect also is clearly a hugely influential factor for professors based on the survey results. there have been more packages added in 2015 than have existed in all of the SAS institute's history - this comparison is based the number of packages added to CRAN vs a rough estimate of the number of procs contained in SAS 9.3 (from r4stats.com). This is a weak comparison originally which is then confusingly stated in the paper. While touched on tangentially I think reproducible research is worth mentioning explicitly, particularly in reference to the strength of programming languages vs. point and click tools. Results Based on the courses taught by all respondents, R was used in 26% of courses in some capacity and of the courses that used R, 16% taught the R language . I believe that this would be more interesting to see broken down based on the respondent's field. In general, additional cross tabulation by discipline would give more insight into the data. Figure 1 is not really needed, giving the values in the text is sufficient in my mind. Also it is somewhat confusing about which subset of classes this breakdown applies to - this is generally true for many of the other figures. See my Figures comment below. Discussion indicating that R is not being adopted by professors and expanding throughout Canadian universities as fast as it perhaps should be . I don't entirely follow the logic here, it is not clear how to establish how fast it is or should be expanding. While I don't disagree with the sentiment, this comes across as an unsupported opinion. Taking this into consideration, it is likely that these results represent the current state of R usage at Canadian universities relatively well. Again, this comes off more of an opinion than what is supported by the survey results and a claim like this needs additional support. The later conclusions are not invalided by removing this claim. Figures Most figures could be shrunk considerably without negatively affecting readability, e.g. Figs 2-5. In some cases it might improve readability to combine plots into facets within a single figure (connecting figures to subsections). Minor Comments Introduction This is the first I've ever heard of omegahat, seems to be on a very different scale than github or even r-forge. While not without their issue, it seems worthwhile to also mention R's mailing lists and special interest groups. Methods A survey of 70 Canadian universities was conducted using Google Forms (https://www.google.com/forms/about/) from June 1, 2016 to June 15, 2016 to estimate the number of universities offering courses that either use or teach the R Results The basic organizational structure is based subsets of the respondents, it would be helpful to indicate the size of each of these subsets. For example, n=80 for professors who teach with R is only given explicitly in the Figure 2 label. Professors who taught R felt the biggest advantages included that it is free, followed by multiple platform support, diverse packages, and being open source; Discussion (e.g. Datacamp and the swirl package) Furthermore, it is our general thought that the R community needs to expand the currently available startup material s to get people familiarized with R in a more interactive way. Figures Bar plot labels are rotated, this is not needed - it makes the labels harder to read and takes up unnecessary space. Conclusions However, fewer professors teach classes that are more specific to learning the language itself. * 