In the study by Dong et al. the authors perform a genomic, phylogenetic and structural analysis of SARS-CoV-2, the causal agent of COVID-19. While the goal of the study is worthy and timely, the conclusions drawn are not justified or supported, possibly due to incomplete data or suboptimal methodology that was used throughout this study. The following concerns should be addressed: Data: the 211 complete genomes of Coronaviridae family that has been collected seem to be only a subset of the available data. There are thousands of complete genomes of viruses from the Coronaviridae family, and substantially more than 211 complete genomes of human CoVs. The selection of these specific 211 should be explained and justified. Alignment and phylogenetic tree software: The software used to construct alignments and phylogenetic trees is not standard. The authors draw critical conclusions from the results of these applications. However, it is not clear how accurate are the alignments and trees built using the ViPTree tool for closely related viruses within one particular viral family. To draw conclusions from this analysis, the authors should use standard multiple sequence alignment software, such as MUSCLE or MAFFT, and standard phylogenetic tree construction, such as phyML. It is unclear how the “ Ten spike protein sequences which were similar to that of 2019-nCoV ” were selected. What is the criterion used for similarity? Why these particular ten? The conclusions drawn appear to be in contradiction to recent literature. The authors write “ Based on currently available information, the 2019-nCoV virus belongs to a category that can cause severe illness in some patients but does not transmit readily between people ”. However, the references that they cite do not support this notion. The authors write “ Phylogenetic analysis of genomic sequences of coronaviruses deposited in the GenBank revealed that 2019-nCoV belonged to betacoronavirus and exhibited the closest linkage with two SARS-like coronavirus from bat (bat-SL-CoVZX45 and bat-SL-CoVZX21) ”. First, these genomes could not be found in NCBI. I assume that there was a typo, and the authors meant “bat-SL-CoVZXC21” and “bat-SL-CoVZC45”. However, these are not the current closest relatives of SARS-CoV-2, but MN996532 (RaTG13). This may be due to missing sequences or issues with the alignments/tree constructions that are mentioned before. As this is critical to the analysis, it should be revised and addressed. The authors conclude that the new coronavirus originated from bat because all coronaviruses that exhibit close linkage with 2019-nCoV originated from bat. However, this may be due to the incomplete data that is used, or other issues, and does not suffice to conclude that SARS-CoV-2 originated from bats. Moreover, many recent studies explored the origin of SARS-CoV-2 in depth. The authors should cite these and compare against their results and conclusions. The authors write “ Since the S protein is the protein that exhibits the highest degree of genetic variations among different coronaviruses ” Is that true? It needs to be cited or supported with data. The authors conclude that the infectivity and pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 should be much lower than that of SARS-CoV, and that its incubation time should be longer. However, this too seems to contradict most recent studies, which show that the infectivity is not lower (and may be higher) than that of SARS-CoV, and most studies suggest a similar incubation period for SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. These discrepancies should be addressed, and the conclusions supported by recent literature. The authors further write that “ Analysis of the potential interaction of RBD of 2019-nCoV with human ACE2 receptor protein indicated that its affinity to human cell is much lower than that of human SARS virus “, again, there is a lot of recent work exploring the interaction of RBD of SARS-CoV-2 with human receptors, which seem to report contradicting evidence. This authors should discuss the differences and compare to recent literature. 