Overall this is an interesting work and it is well-written. The study explores satisfaction with life of postdocs. It also looks at career goal change of postdocs. The study contributes to our understanding of the current mental state of postdocs, a growing sub-population of the science workforce. The work is clearly and accurately presented. However, there are many other current literature on this topic that authors may benefit from reading them and linking their literature review to those studies or comparing and contrasting their findings. The study design is appropriate. There are two concerns: first, as the authors acknowledge the response rate was not available. Second, biomedical postdocs in this data seem to be over-represented when compared to the national sample in Powell (2015) 1 . As reported in other studies 2 - 3 , the chance of landing tenure-track positions for PhDs of biomedical sciences and engineering is relatively small, which may affect their satisfaction. Most of the analysis are descriptive, which is fine. The interpretations are mostly accurate. The relationship between lab atmosphere and satisfaction is interesting. However, one might worried it’s confounded by individual characteristics such as personality – that is, people with more extraversion or agreeableness will score high on both satisfaction and subjective lab atmosphere. Furthermore, a more interesting/appropriate analysis for figure 2 might be to present results for subgroups by duration of the postdoc position. Most of the source data underlying the results are available to ensure full reproducibility. It seems that the link for Supplementary file 2 leads to the same source as for Supplementary file 1 which can be fixed. Finally, most of the conclusions are adequately supported by the results. The only problem was the suggestion of focusing on soft (non-science) factors of the lab. While the point makes sense, since the paper is descriptive, the authors should avoid causal interpretations. 