 In vitro assays have become a mainstay of modern approaches to toxicology with a high promise of understanding the underlying mechanisms of toxicity. The results reported by Wagner et al. , (2016) in the August 26 issue of the Environmental Health Perspectives, where neural stem cells were used to model the toxicity of lead. The results support the notion that lead treatment of cells leads to upregulation of vascular gene expression (JBC 275:27874-27882, 2000). While this work presents interesting effects, this reviewer’s opinion is in agreement with the correspondence (critiqued article) authors Bannon and Williams that it may be more appropriate for high acute exposures particularly in case of neural stem/progenitor cells, which lack many of the characteristic features of mature neurons. It is also likely that neural stem cells (NSCs) could be more resistance to toxic insult by lead - at least in the short term. Thus the in vitro work could more realistically model chronic neurological effects if doses are better matched with the doses at the target site, as supported by the fact that serum or plasma levels represent a very low fraction of the total blood lead levels. Thus the concentrations of lead used in this study, which elicits upregulation of genes in the Nrf2-mediated anti-oxidative stress pathway, appear to be in the low micromolar range, which is much higher than the in vitro dose equivalent of the current CDC levels of concentrations (5 ug/dL) for children. Thus the concentrations used in the study does not reflect the likely exposure of lead in the environment, that is to say, concentrations which are likely to be cytotoxic particularly in case of NSCs. This is clearly a near impossible issue to address empirically, but if some information available along these lines using a more physiologically relevant dose in the media of in vitro NSC cultures to show gene expression in the Nrf2-mediated anti-oxidative stress pathway would be helpful for the reader as suggested by Bannon and Williams in the critiqued article. It will also be interesting to see how the differentiated neurons from lead exposed NSCs express neurons specific features or exhibit mature neuronal function.