This research paper reports the results of a survey of biomedical and biological scientists about their motivations and attitudes with respect to basic research. They found that basic scientists are mainly driven by a goal to satisfy their curiosity and to advance fundamental knowledge. They also have an aspiration to impact human health, usually in an abstract or yet-undefined way. Prestige is a motivator for some. The thoroughly reported survey results showed that researchers feel ambivalent about the "statement of public health relevance" sections that accompany most grant proposals to biomedical funding agencies. Some favor getting rid of this section. This is important information for the scientific community and for funding agencies to consider. This research paper is timely because the importance of basic research has been on the mind of the leaders at NIH, the largest biomedical funding agency in the world, as shown in their recent letter to Science . In it, the NIH leadership says that the research community erroneously believes that the "statement of public health relevance" means that the agency does not value basic research, when in fact, the NIH leadership says it does. However, at several agencies including NINDS and NCI, the proportion of basic science proposals received is going down, while the proportion of "hybrid" or applied/clinical research proposals is going up. This means that many investigators are shifting their application strategy towards applied research because they think it is more likely to gain funding. Ultimately, it is the scientists on review panels, not just NIH leadership, who determine which research gets funded. So, if the agency and the research community values basic research, there needs to be a change in culture so that scientifically sound and meritorious proposals gain funding even if they do not have specific clinical applications. Reviewers in basic science study sections should be instructed to evaluate proposals on experimental design and novelty but not clinical relevance. Future research on how the tight funding climate has impacted attitudes towards basic research, and ideas on how to reverse the trend of decreasing numbers of basic research proposals, would be very interesting to funding agencies and policy makers. This is an interesting and well written paper. I have a few suggestions to improve the paper. There are many figures and the information contained in these figures could be consolidated into fewer figures to make it easier to interpret. Statistical analysis of the data would also make the conclusions stronger. All in all, the findings make intuitive sense and it is nice to have the data to confirm these intuitions.