Thank you for asking my views on this paper. This is a very long and detailed examination of the philosophical, historical rationale and principles of causality assessment of possible vaccine harms, chiefly death. This is mixed with the narrative of the changes made by WHO to their own assessment rules. The authors use several important examples to make their points. I regard this topic as extremely interesting and important and the authors should be congratulated for attempting to pull the main strands together, from David Hume to the Brighton Collaboration. Despite my interest I found the manuscript extremely heavy going with a difficult-to-follow thread. It soon became apparent that the authors think there has been something akin to an international conspiracy to bury the dead by changing the definitions of probable and likely causality. That may be so, but I could not find any convincing evidence in the paper. Here and there inaccuracies and typos add to the distractions. For example in box 10, DTP becomes DPT or the suggestions that Rotashield was withdrawn in 1999 as a consequence of the Brighton criteria. As far as I remember in 1999 we were setting up and had not produced the criteria or any other output yet. I would also check the data of Rotashield withdrawal from the market. What follows are a few suggestions to improve the manuscript (ms). First I would split the ms into 2 parts. One discussing the philosophical-historical basis for causality assessment perhaps as far as Brighton and the second one looking at the more recent changes. Here I have two further suggestions to offer. Bradford Hill's criteria should be cited, even though they are not a perfect solution as Hill himself recognised. They should be cited because they have had an enormous influence on modern epidemiology (see Geoffrey Rose's variant for example) and because the formulation of some of them (temporality, strength, gradient) is very apt for vaccine exposure. Take temporality for example. The term AEFI which is so extensively cited concedes temporality when in fact temporality is only as good as the vaccination records. Often "AEFI" is used when we are not sure that exposure has taken place at all or that it preceded the clinical event/possible harm. So a balanced discussion of temporality (one of the absolute conditions for determining causality) must include absolute certainty or high probability that exposure preceded the event and that it had taken place at all. Second I would offer the connection of probabilism and Fisherian theory with Hume's problem of induction. I see Fisher's work as the patch that allows us to go on with at least a partially clear conscience, as I do not think there is a solution to Hume's problem as nature is not (and never will be) universally uniform. I would tone down the plot theory rhetoric and would seek a written explanation from WHO for their actions. WHO do not have a good track record of answering researchers but the effort must be made and reported. Ditto for any other point which was unclear to the authors. I am not a great believer in plots, blunders fit the picture and my experience better, but the authors must try and get to the bottom of the rationale for the changes and, while at it, they might just want to ask WHO, CIOMS etc. to check the authors' facts and dates (but not their opinions of course). Last but not least please ask Brighton whether they were aware of WHO's actions (they must be) and what their views are. I hope these suggestions are useful to the authors. 