The author examines the emergence of avian influenza A viruses (AIAV) having the H5N8 subtype, using genomic sequences from a publicly available influenza sequence database. He points out, correctly, that isolates of H5N8 AIAV has been reported sporadically, but infrequently, since 1983, with the majority of detections occurring during the recent outbreak of H5N8 viruses in Korea. These H5N8 viruses carry a hemagglutinin (HA) segment from the so-called “Guangdong lineage”, the lineage associated with the highly pathogenic AIAV H5N1 viruses that were first detected in Asia in 1996. In order to demonstrate the sporadic emergence of H5N8 AIAV over 30+ years of history, the author conducts a phylogenetic analysis all full-length HA from all influenza A viruses having H5Nx subtype, and the complementary analysis of all full-length neuraminidase (NA) from all influenza A viruses having HxN8 subtype. The analytical approach is appropriate. Perhaps other phylogenetic inference methods could give stronger results, but I doubt that alternatives will change the basic conclusions. It is clear that AIAV having H5N8 subtype have been seen sporadically in the past, but not until 2010 were these found in conjunction with HA from the Guangdong lineage. Using his extensive HA(H5) and NA(N8) phylogenies, the author attempts to infer the subtype of the donor viruses of the sporadically occurring H5N8 viruses. In some instances, the evidence is reasonably strong. However, circumstantial evidence based on collocation of subtypes with high bootstrap support in a phylogeny does not constitute proof of the donor subtypes, a point that the author recognizes. (Such proof is extremely difficult to obtain, requiring a field sample with a mixture of the relevant donors and reassortant viruses.) I would like the author to have provided some context for his results. How “unusual” is this pattern of sporadic emergence of newly formed reassortants having a particular mixture of HA and NA subtypes? For example, the database contains four sequences from H5N4 viruses, one collected from each of 2006 and 2009, and two collected in 2010. Given the time period separating these detections, it is highly likely that at least three separate reassortment events gave rise to these four viruses. The author could also describe the various other NA subtypes that have reassorted with HA from the Guangdong lineage. The fact that the Guangdong HA’s have been circulating for two decades and only recently have they reassorted with another subtype to produce a “successful” novel H5Nx subtype is of interest. Frequent reassortment among avian influenza viruses has been well documented. For the most part, novel AIAV reassortants do not persist long before they reassort again, as is seen in this paper. An important question is why a particular combination of segments becomes “successful”, i.e. able to spread widely in its host species. The answer to this question is beyond the scope of the author’s work. This paper does show, for one subtype, the history of emergence, disappearance and re-emergence, including a recent outbreak. I have a number of minor comments. I found the tip labels of phylogenetic trees confusing. I would prefer the format “strain name (subtype).” Please collapse subtrees in Fig. 2. Numerical support for branches: I would prefer these values to be given only when the branch is relevant to the thesis of the paper. Reporting support values that are very low or even 0, such as in Figures 5 and 8, is not helpful. I would like Figs 5-7 to be combined, so that I can see how these subtrees relate to the overall evolution of the Guangdong HA/H5. A number of the sequences from old isolates are duplicates. These should be removed before analysis. The author criticizes phylogenetic analysis based on a specific subtype. I disagree with this criticism. I believe that the choice of dataset depends on the hypothesis of interest. It may be most appropriate to focus on A/H3N2 viruses from humans or A/H5N1 viruses from chickens when, for example, considering antigenic drift in the respective hemagglutinin proteins. Surveillance of avian influenza is a major focus of the CEIRS program. It extends beyond the study in the Delaware Bay. Subtypes not represented in the public sequence database are likely to be rare in the host population. Except in restricted situations such as outbreaks in a domestic poultry flock, it is unlikely that the subtype of an avian virus is known before sampling and laboratory identification. Therefore, sampling bias is unlikely to be a source of lack of sequences from a particular subtype. 