Dr. Wang and colleagues have provided intriguing evidence to suggest that the metabolic phenotype of the Deltagen GPR21 KO mouse may not be completely due to deletion of the GPR21 gene. Rather, these authors suggest that the metabolic phenotype of the Deltagen GPR21 KO mouse could have been a function of the location of the 5.3 kb lacZ/Neo cassette within exon 1, which could have altered the expression and function of Rabgap1 and Strbp. Indeed, the authors did show that Rabgap1 was altered in brown and white adipose tissue, liver and spleen of the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice. In order to understand whether the metabolic phenotype of the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice was truly due to deletion of GPR21 or an artifact of the neo cassette location in the Deltagen mice, this group used a different strategy to delete GPR21 which did not involve Rabgap1 or Strbp. The KO mice generated as a result of this alternate GPR21 deletion strategy (GPR21 TAL29bp KO) did not demonstrate the high fat diet resistance phenotype observed in the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice. In addition, while there were no differences in Rabgap1 mRNA or strbp mRNA in the liver or brown adipose tissue of the GPR21 TAL 29bp KO mice, there was clear deletion of GPR21 in the same tissues of these mice. Although this information is quite important for the research area of obesity and diabetes therapeutics in general, there are some aspects of the experimental design and manuscript narrative that could be strengthened in order to provide more confidence in the findings. It is unclear why the authors chose to focus on liver and brown adipose tissue expression levels of Rabgap1 and GPR21. Tissue expression of GPR21 was much more prominent in brain and spleen in both the Gardner et al ., and Osborn, et al ., papers which described the high fat diet resistance phenotype in the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice. It seems that there would be even more confidence in the findings of the current manuscript if GPR21 was as dramatically knocked out in brain and spleen by the GPR21 TAL29bp deletion strategy as it was in liver and BAT. The argument that the improved metabolic phenotype in the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice was an artifact of neo cassette location would have been more convincing if the current authors had compared the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice in a “head to head” fashion with the GPR21 TAL29bp KO mice when they evaluated resistance to diet-induced impairments in glucose tolerance. This would have shown that the authors were able to reproduce the metabolic improvements previously observed in the high fat diet-fed Deltagen mice even though the GPR21 TAL29bpKO mice did not show such an improvement under the same experimental conditions. Since it is important to assure that the experimental conditions utilized to assess metabolic phenotype in the current study were similar to those utilized for the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice in other labs, it would have been helpful if the authors had provided more detail about their methodology in the current manuscript. For example, the following points are not clear from the narrative of the manuscript: a. What were the housing conditions of the animals (individual vs group-housed?, ambient temperature? b. Were the mice all one gender? (the Gardner paper used a mix of male and female, which could have influenced body weight, activity level, etc) c. What were the Ns for the OGTT, Insulin and BW data and how were they derived (basis for power analysis)? d. What statistical analysis strategy was used to evaluate the data? e. Was a baseline insulin level obtained under the conditions used for the OGTT? f. Were subsets of animals sacrificed after the respective OGTT and insulin measurements at each time point (11, 15 and 26 weeks)? If so, how was that taken into account in the statistical analysis for data collected over the entire time period (i.e., body weight)? In the “Next Steps” section, the authors suggest that the follow up to their data will be the responsibility of those that read their article. However, their data only opens up the possibility that the metabolic phenotype of the Deltagen GPR21 KO mice is an artifact of neocassette location. In this reviewer’s opinion, the authors still have quite a bit of work to do in order to provide definitive evidence that the Deltagen GPR21 KO mouse phenotype is not correct. It would also be informative to hear the author’s view on the potential role of Rabgap1 in insulin sensitivity and resistance. 