The publication describes the web tool for search, retrieval and computing statistics of cancer publications related to the input gene(s). The tool fully builds upon open source data from PubTator which links medical and biological concepts to PubMed articles. The only derived data is the “Cancer Terms” associations data set. These are words (tags) that are significantly associated with the cancer related publications - that is - publications mentioning any cancer MeSH term (and at least one gene) significantly more relative to the all other publication (with at least one gene mentioned). Methodology is adequately described and the code is publicly available. Interaction with the website: The user queries the database with a gene or a set of genes, and is presented with a list of cancer types associated with their list sorted by a number of associations. After the user selected the cancer type(s) of interest, it is presented with a bar graph with frequencies (counts) of these cancer types in the literature. Furthermore the user can filter the results by Cancer Terms, Drugs, Mutations and Additional Genes. Each of these filters allows the user to create a simple bar graph with the 10 most frequent term on one axis and number of articles on the other. The site is fast and responsive even for large gene list. All results can be downloaded and the code is publicly available. Main issues/limitation: The main issue with the tool is lack of any statistical testing. The web tool only lists frequencies (counts) of these associations, which is not particularly informative. The tool should provide information if the user's initial gene or gene set is significantly more associated with particular cancer types/terms/drugs and how specific this association is, this results in an unspecific terms being always listed first. More crucially however, for example, a drug could have 10 associations with a user input gene out of a total of 10 association in the full corpus, or it could be 10 out of 10.000 in total. The interpretation of the results would substantially differ in both of these cases, however with the current state of the web tool, there is way to tell these two cases apart. Another glaring limitation of the tool is that the only entry point is a gene or a gene set. There seem to be no good reason why the initial query would not be a cancer type, cancer term or the a drug. It’s would be a valid and potentially interesting question to ask the tool: Give me all the cancer types and genes associated with, for example, Roscovitine. As of now there is no way to generate such a data set as the output is limited to the associations with the entry gene-list. Other Issues/limitations: The input gene selection box stops listing genes at the letter "C". Also the list is not properly sorted, there are rare other random genes beginning on T or S in between the sorted genes. Web browsers back button doesn’t function properly (I guess it’s partially a limitation of the framework used, but the developers should avoid frameworks and tools that break basic browser UI functions - at very least the tool should warn the user that they work will be lost when the back button is pressed). The user can’t share the state of the website (their results) with other users. When I click on “New Gene Search” I can’t select the same gene. When I double click on the cancer type in the “Select Cancer Types” window couple of times, I can force the app infinitely starts refreshing. “Cancer publication Portal” should be a hyperlink which sends the user to the start page. iFrames, such as the ones used for PubTator should be avoided, except looking out of place and being confusing to the user, it’s an unstable solution as it may break functionality of framed websites such as pop-ups, full screen features (e.g. videos), and back button. In addition to that not all we browsers support iFrames, it’s regarded as unsafe, it breaks the webpage for the impaired users, and one cannot copy/paste the URL of the iframe which is a fundamental usability issue. Possible solution is to link directly to the search results. PubTator search result have simple GET requests scheme which could easily be implemented (the authors should be aware that there is an URL size limit and how many PMID PubTator can actually process, but these limitations also applies to the current solution). The authors should consider text-mining NCIt Neoplasm Core instead relying in PubTator MeSH terms. The web tool focus is on oncology and cancer researchers. The Terminology provided by MeSH system is known for lacking granularity. NCIt has extensive hierarchy for cancer-related terms with high coverage. Utlilizing inferior ontology makes the tool less useful to the target audience. PubTator is already an outdated tool and is now developed further as Pubtator 2.0, which includes, among other improvements, more sophisticated text-mining and corpus of full text papers. The authors should move their pipeline to PubTator 2.0 system. 