 Very interesting experimental evidence of an inheritance phenomenon that is non-Mendelian and supports an RNA cache hypothesis. The data support the conclusions drawn, but some alternative explanations are put forth that can be addressed. The EMS mutagenesis treatment of the vtc1-1 genotype yields a single suppressor svt2 mutant that turns out to be a revertant of the vtc1-1 mutation, and is homozygous. Since this screen was from ~1200 seed, it would be interesting to know if such revertant suppressor mutations are also be present in the original batch of vtc1-1 seed used for mutagenesis. Of course since the screen entails a tedious test of TTB on leaves of individual plants for AA content, it is not a recommended control test that should be done, but mechanistically the question remains if the locus is mutable without mutagenesis. What is curious is that the phenotype of the suppressor plant shows a L er ‘plant type’ phenotype. Looking back at the history of the vtc1 mutant, the only time when the L er and Col genomes were together, described in Conklin et al (1996) , was when the vtc1 mutant was crossed to L er for mapping. The description of the vtc1-1 ( soz1 ) mutant stock (in TAIR) is given as result of 2 x backcrosses and an F3, presumably as a result of crossing to Col-0, but it might be useful to confirm that the stock has no L er background and the seed used was progeny of single plant and not from a bulk seed lot. Since the VTC1 locus has also been characterized by cyt1 and emb101 mutants, it would seem that the mutant alleles might have some disadvantage in being propagated and a ‘residual heterozygosity’ might persist by some mechanism. In addition, reversion to a wild-type phenotype svt2 might be facilitated by a selection of vigorous embryos into maturity. The sequence changes in the vtc1-1 and svt2 suggests an origin of a ‘template’ independent of L er and Col alleles, and might also be sequences from another related ecotype. A screen of available Arabidopsis ecotype genome sequences should show such an alternate donor. Minor comment: On the PDF, page 10, need to use ‘were’ instead of 'where' in the sentence beginning "In all cases..." 