Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper. In this study, the authors presented some novel and interesting analyses to explore health care cost attributable to unhealthy lifestyle patterns and socioeconomic position (SEP; or, perhaps more meaningful, socioeconomic inequalities?). Compared with existing literature on this topic, this study has a few unique contributions: 1) The authors modelled several lifestyle risk factors simultaneously, both in terms of contribution of individual risk factors and combined lifestyle profiles; 2) the authors used data across multiple years and considered the change in attributable and avoided costs over time; 3) the authors considered both lifestyle behaviours and low SEP as risk factors, both individually and combined. However, I have several recommendations for the authors to consider. The information regarding the measurement of lifestyle risk factors and SEP is critical and should be presented with details. What measurement instruments were used? What are the reliability and validity of these measures, what is the rationale for the categorisation? Particularly, the small proportion of healthcare cost attributable to poor diet may be a result of the limitations of the measure (I consider the dietary measure to be a fruit and vegetable intake measure only). Although it is interesting and informative to examine healthcare cost associated with low SEP, I think this idea may require a little bit more consideration. SEP is a relative concept, so what is the practical interpretation of PAF associated with SEP? Were the authors considering the healthcare cost that could have been averted if everyone was of high socioeconomic status? Particularly, how do we correctly interpret PAF associated with ethnicity? What are the counterfactuals? To me, it may be more meaningful to estimate the PAF of socioeconomic inequality, rather than SEP. It seems that the authors have a-priori decided to model women and men separately? What is the rationale? However, later on in the paper, when describing the economic cost, all results were presented for both sexes combined. Is there an explanation for this? It looks like the authors have conducted thorough and comprehensive statistical analysis. However, most results are not presented. For example, results from the regression analysis (at least for Model 3) could be of interest to readers. The change analysis between 2004 and 2013: is this based on modelling using all data points or the two time points only? Could you please provide more information and a reference for inverse propensity-weighted analyses? Sorry if I have missed this point from the paper. The modelling of SEP is based on adjusted analysis considering lifestyle risk factors? As we know SEP is a strong predictor of lifestyle behaviour, so parts of the association between SEP and healthcare cost would be explained by lifestyle behaviours. It would be useful if the authors more explicitly define the part of PAF attributable SEP independent of lifestyle risk factors. Given that the data spans over 10 years, have the authors considered inflation? Particularly healthcare specific inflation? It may be worth discussing that the change in PAF over time could be a result of a change in population health behaviour of that in the average costs of certain health care procedures/items. Furthermore, the authors may consider the checklist we developed for reporting cost of illness analysis. 1 Minor comments/questions: Abstract: Taken together, health behaviours and socioeconomic position were associated with 34% ($134 billion)… suggest add "these" before health behaviours, because this is only referring to the 4 selected behaviours, not health behaviour in general. Methods: could the authors provide some justification regarding why these lifestyle behaviours were selected? Results: “uncertainty for the burden estimates indicates potential overestimation for physical activity and underestimation for diet.” Could the authors provide some justification for this statement? The units for the physical activity measure seem incorrect. Could it be MET hour, instead of MET? 