Thank you for inviting me to review this systematic review of non-randomised evaluations of strategies to improve participant recruitment to RCTs. I have listed some suggestions below that I believe would improve the article. Search methods: Were there any date limits applied to the searches or were they from the databases inception? The number of additional abstracts identified after the 2018 search is given in the methods but not the number identified in the original search which is confusing. I am also not convinced by this rationale for not updating the searches. I think it would be better to update the searches and include the information from the 10 studies identified. I am not clear why this wasn't done. Data extraction: It would be helpful to give an overview of what data was extracted. Figure 1: It would be helpful to list the reasons for exclusion at the full-text stage. It would be better to combine the included studies boxes into one, stating 'x articles were identified comprising of x unique studies' or similar Results: I am not sure what is meant by the statement that 7 articles were excluded at the full-text stage because they needed additional data to allow for inclusion. From the information in the study was it not possible to determine whether the study was eligible? Or is it that there was some of the data you wanted to extract was missing. If it is the latter I would include the study and state that there was missing data. Using risk of bias to select studies: Of the 72 studies excluded what was their risk of bias due to the confounding domain, it just states 'the bias due to confounding domain'. Comparing data within categories: I think the following statement needs to be rephrased or removed. I am not clear why you are unable to describe the intervention. 'Each of these categories includes a range of interventions, the majority of which we are unable to thoroughly describe.' Planning no-randomised studies: The acronym SWAT is used for the 1st time without being spelt out fully, it is only spelt out fully later on in the paragraph. It would be useful in this section to explain what a SWAT is, as it stands the section focuses on what is limiting the utility of evaluations of recruitment and it would be improved and more useful if more focus is given on what could be done to increase the utility of these studies. Reporting non-randomised studies: It would be helpful to give an overview of the type of data that was missing. At present this section is focusing on the fact that the number of participants didn't add up in some of the studies. Was this the main example of missingness? 