This article introduces a new, fluorescence-based reporter assay for evaluating the knockdown efficacy of individual siRNA sequences. The authors effectively demonstrate the robustness of their assay in predicting effective siRNAs by direct comparison to endogenous protein knockdown, and they highlight the advantages this dual reporter assay provides over traditional methods, including significantly faster result times (24 hours versus 48+ hours) and evaluation of knockdown on the individual cell level. To expedite plasmid construction, the authors additionally modified their reporter plasmids with negative selection markers to bypass the need for DNA sequencing after addition of specific siRNA/target oligos. This very promising dual fluorescence reporter assay will be accessible to most standard cell and molecular biology laboratories, provides clear advantages over traditional methods of siRNA evaluation, and will provide avenues for high-throughput screening for effective siRNA sequences. Minor points: The rationale behind the three plasmid system is a bit confusing. While it appears to be designed to allow adaptability with previously constructed shRNA plasmids, it seems that the limitation of losing direct shRNA dosage correlation to GFP expression could sometimes be an offsetting disadvantage. The expression of shRNA could be significantly different than that of GFP, especially in hard-to-transfect cell lines, where it could potentially lead to false positives/negatives in the R/G ratios. Please clarify how the final bin of the R/G ratios are plotted, since the last bar in Figs. 2C, 5C, and 5D are all higher than adjacent bars. Does this last bin represent the sum of this particular X value and all higher values? Are these R/G final bins due to the RNAi-insensitive cell population mentioned on page 6? On page 7, the authors note that EGFP expression was reduced by insertion of the hairpin sequence for some target sequences. How severe was this reduction in the worst cases? In Fig. 3f, the tubulin control western blot staining does not seem to match the 10-fold dilution of WT at 1.8 compared to at 18 which of the western blot kits was used, since it might not be linear? Very minor text issues should be corrected on page 8 ( since mCherry maturates faster than that of DsRed2 , page 11 ( unless noting specifically ), and page 13 ( Image analysis was as follow ). 