This manuscript describes a study of responses of three well-characterized halorachaea to pH changes. Specifically, growth changes were measured and transcriptional changes were measured via cDNA microarray analysis for cells placed under different pH treatments. The authors observed some interesting differences in responses, especially in the Halorubrum strain under acidic conditions suggesting that pH responses are not universal among Halobacteriales. The finding that TFB, a putative transcription factor, is universally found under alkaline conditions may be of importance in understanding general responses to pH in haloarchaea. Overall, the manuscript is well written and the science seems sound; however, additional information in various sections of the manuscript is necessary to fully evaluate the study. Abstract: The statement " However, of all the naturally occurring stresses faced by the haloarchaea, only one, pH, has not been previously reported on ." is incorrect as a number of studies have reported on pH optima for described halorachaea. For example, Bowers and Wiegel published a minireview on pH and temperature responses of haloarchaea ( Bowers and Wiegel, Extremophiles, 2011 ). I would recommend the authors qualify this statement to indicate they are the first to measure gene transcript changes in responses to pH and also include this reference and others from the Wiegel group in their article. Although the shorthand abbreviations for halophiles are well known within the halophile research community, I would define the three species using full scientific names on first usage in the abstract since F1000 has a very general audience. The statement beginning "Our observations..." could be improved by specifying the similarities or differences. As written the sentence is more indicative than substantive. Introduction: The extensive summary of results presented in the introduction beginning "Broadly..." is inappropriate in the introduction and should be deleted. Methods: More detail is needed on how the various culture media were adjusted for pH. What buffers were used? How did the authors ensure that pH did not change throughout the growth experiments? The way the description of pH manipulations is written made it seem like the optimal pH 7.2-7.5 control cultures were not included, although that is not the case based on their results. The authors should include these values in the list of treatments. Reference is made to control samples in the cDNA preparation section. Please elaborate on exactly what these controls were and how they affected the studys findings. It would be helpful if the Perl scripts described in the Microarray data processing section were made available in the supplementary information section. I may be missing something here. Reference is made to " genes showing greater than 2-fold change " in transcriptional level in " at least" 2 replicates . However, the methods describe duplicate technical microarray replicates, so how could it be more than 2? Please clarify. Results/Discussion: Since optical densities vary among strains -- it would be useful for comparative purposes if the authors could calculate and report their growth data in terms of cells/ml as opposed to OD. What do the error bars represent in the growth curve figures? Overall, the degree of replication in the growth experiments is unclear, please clarify the statement: " Each growth curve was measured twice and replicated once ." Statistical tests (e.g. ANOVA) for differences among growth curves should be performed to better support statements about differences in growth rates. The section Microarray analysis and responses in R/D might be better placed in methods since it does a good job of clarifying the methodology and does not really report findings. Some interpretation of their results in the broader ecological context of pH environments encountered in nature would be warranted. For example, in the introductions, the authors note that halophiles have been isolated from sites with extremes in pH; however, their current study focuses on well characterized, "lab rat" haloarchaea isolated from circumneutral habitats. These strains have the advantages of characterized genomes, etc. However, in future studies it would be interesting to see if the same responses are found for organisms such as alkaliphiles isolated from more extreme pH habitats. Acknowledgment of these limitations/opportunities in the discussion would be appropriate. Presentations of Figures: Presentation of figures would be improved if the authors matched error bar colors with the line. Also, the small size of line markers and lack of contrast among some of the colors (e.g. dark shades of blue and black) makes it hard to differentiate some of the growth curves. 