This article summarizes the discussions from a meeting of several organizations from different parts of the world that all develop and collect materials for education in biomedical data science. One of the main strengths of the article is that it includes a world-wide perspective on training in the intersection of computing and the life sciences, with representatives from four different continents. As expected from such a forum, the paper covers a lot of ground, ranging from theories of learning, through technical development of databases for learning resources and through topics such as interactions with stakeholders. This is a major strength of the article, but it also makes the reading of the article slightly daunting, and I worry that it would make it hard for a potential reader to navigate. I propose adding a roadmap in the beginning of the article, which would direct readers towards their topic of interest. I also think that the article would benefit from relegating some technical details, such as the detailed FAIRness assessment in section 4, or the details of the schema in section 5.2 to appendices. The former (section 4) could possibly also be summarized in a table. Similarly, some theoretical background could possibly be elided, and references provided for readers who want to (e.g., Bloom's taxonomy in section 6.1). Similarly, at the very end of the article, I think that it would help to summarize the main conclusions and recommendations made in the article and reiterate them. One topic that I would have liked to see addressed more is the ability that relatively decentralized systems have to provide objective assessments of users' skill levels, progress and outcomes. The work of the Johns Hopkins Data Science Group on this topic is particularly compelling. For example, articles that they published about their MOOC series: Kross et al.,2017 1 and Hadavand et al., 2018 2 , and work that they have done on systems for automating production of educational resources, and primarily the Swirl project (https://swirlstats.com/), which provides a uniform interface for creating data science courses that run in the RStudio console. One additional topic that could be further addressed is the motivations that lead researchers to contribute training materials to the repositories that are mentioned in the article. This is addressed in 5.1.C. Another option that is not mentioned is providing venues for publication, and mechanisms to cite and provide credit and feedback, to the creators of OER. One possible venue for this is the recently-started Journal for Open Source Education, https://jose.theoj.org/ (with the full disclosure that I am a member of the editorial board of JOSE's partner journal for open source software (JOSS) and a contributor to JOSE). I found the assessment of interoperability between projects developed by different organizations in sections 4 and 5 to be compelling, and I was wondering why bioCADDIE's DDI was not included in these assessments. Minor: In the abstract, the sentence: "Discussions focused on the role of i) training for biomedical data science; ii) the need to promote core competencies, and the ii) development of career paths" should be "Discussions focused on i) the role of training for biomedical data science; ii) the need to promote core competencies, and iii) the development of career paths" Introduction, I believe that the sentence: "In May 2017, during a two-day meeting between the BD2K Training Coordinating Center (TCC), ELIXIR Training/TeSS, GOBLET, H3ABioNet, EMBL-ABR, bioCADDIE and the CSIRO, convened in Huntington Beach, California, to describe our respective activities and how these might be leveraged for wider impact on a global scale" is missing something (maybe a verb?) On page 9: I believe that the sentence "The example in the figure depicts the situation of a learner who wants to find out about the field of genetics but does not know where to start." refers to Figure 2. It would be good to spell that out. Also, in the following paragraph: "The key aspect of this underlying model is that the table shown above would need a large number of rows that codify the various ...". Because of the layout of the article, the table in the Figure is actually several rows *below* this paragraph, so it would be good to be explicit here as well. 