The proposed article is based on personal interviews with professionals in health and law on the subject of surrogacy. The author takes a clear stand for “modernization”, where he considers surrogacy an ART. He presents in a favorable light the positive attitudes towards surrogacy by legal experts and gynecologists (mostly male) and in a negative light the objections expressed by traditional birth attendants (all female). The objective of the article is to identify cultural obstacles to the normalization of this practice, as the author considers it a panacea for infertility, therefore positive, progressive, good. There are multiple problems with his view, the principal one is the blurring of what happens in surrogacy and the imprecision in its description, that is missing its concrete aspects. (This blurring is surprising, considering that my own contribution Contract children, a book exactly describing at the global level the phenomenon and its legal and ethical requisites, is listed in the bibliography. I have since published another article that might be of help to the author: “The subrogation of motherhood: a juridical institution putting kinship on the market”, in Salute e societ, n. 2, 2019, pp. 44-59 1 ). Instead of providing a description, the author defines surrogacy as an ART or an “alternative to infertility” (p. 5), and the whole paper rests on this faulty premise. Surrogacy is not an ART nor a “fertility treatment” (p. 3), as the insemination in some countries is also achieved with coitus (there are documented cases in Mexico and China). It is instead the motherhood of a woman that will not be considered the legal mother – by deception of the authorities or by changes in the filiation laws. It is essentially a third way to become legal parents besides birthing (with or without recognition by the natural father, a recognition that happens automatically when the mother is married) and adoption. Therefore juridical language should be employed, as it is a juridical institution: the subrogation of motherhood. But out of simplicity I will also call this practice “surrogacy”. The mother, that is – in objective language – the woman who has given birth, renounces by contract to her right to the baby (called in law the principle of mater semper certa) in exchange for money, often called “reimbursement”. Where are those “cases of altruism” that the author claims to stand on a par with the commercial version (p. 5)? Illegal surrogacy happens, and it is just a practice where the delivery of the baby to third persons is achieved by payment or by illegal force, but when it is regulated by law – despite usually taking place in clinics – is not at all a medical practice, but a pregnancy not essentially different from other pregnancies. The IVF can or cannot take place, and the insemination can happen outside clinics. The fact that surrogacy is clinically managed does not pertain to the core of the practice, which is the legal possibility to sell filiation by the mother to the prospective, and paying, parent(s). It is therefore wrong to state in the abstract that, before surrogacy, adoption was “the most common alternative” to legally become a mother, as adoption was the only alternative to birthing a child. The major problem with the aseptic definition of surrogacy as an ART – that is, as if it were technology – is that this definition takes for granted that the woman who gives birth will renounce her baby, will renounce her right to legally recognize her baby. But this is not inherent in the practice, which is merely based on a promise. The certainty will only come with legally binding documents: a contract that is currently invalid in most countries. She will surely give up the baby only if she is bound by a contract that is deemed legally valid – for this reason is surrogacy a juridical institution. This use of a woman’s body to obtain a son or daughter – I repeat – is in nearly all cases paid for, and the Rapporteur for the U.N. on child trafficking has already declared commercial surrogacy to be trafficking in babies, and – in her last contribution on the subject that I have read – awaited for supporters of “altruistic” surrogacy to demonstrate that such a thing really exist and is not merely a label for the same selling of commissioned newborns. The author apparently ignores the Rapporteur’s conclusion that commercial surrogacy is a violation of the human rights of the newborn, it is an indignity suffered by a mother, and becomes a violation of her human rights, too, when she changes her mind having developed a motherly relationship with her baby but cannot keep him or her because she signed a contract more than nine months before. But how can the author ask others about “how surrogacy is conceptualized in Nigeria” while he has a superficial concept of surrogacy as (just) an ART? Why does he cancel out the legal debate, and does not give the reader the fundamental information of how surrogacy is legally defined in Nigeria? And if it does not appear in law (as far as I know this is the case), what are the consequences for people who may have done informal agreements? Have there ever been real cases? There are sources on forcing pregnancy on women already trafficked for the purpose of prostitution – should this not be discussed? How can he claim that gynecologists have a “more informed opinion” on surrogacy (p. 5) when his own description of it is blurry and essentially wrong? Other questions that come to my mind pertain to the framing of the interviews that he conducted: Do not gynecologist talk from their own cultural point of view, like the TBAs? What is “scientific” about their opinions on surrogacy? It seems to me that the TBAs are closer to target (see end of the review). In general, the interview material could be analysed in more depth and with more quotations. The author’s denomination of “modern” for surrogacy is hardly accurate, as it is well know that there are descriptions in the Bible. The author is worried about stigma creation, but what if surrogacy in itself is violence? Violence against the newborn, who is not a tabula rasa but needs his or her mother, and actively looks for her for the nourishment from her breasts? Violence against the numerous women who do not want to give up their babies after birth but are forced to do it by monetary penalties or even by the force of the State (see the cases of Baby M and Melissa Cook, among many others)? Should acts of violence be free from “stigma”? Should not surrogacy be correctly nominated for what it is: an unnecessary separation of the dyad mother-newborn because intermediaries (and doctors and legal experts, as we see in other countries) profit from the plight of infertile couples, suggesting and organizing this trafficking for their own profit? It seems to me that the explanation for the favorable opinions of doctors and legal experts that the author has found, could be grounded in their own prospect of becoming part of these agreements, organize them and profit from them. There is a class dimension and an inequality basis in surrogacy that are totally foregone in the proposed article: there is no altruistic surrogacy but women in need that accept to become pregnant and give up their babies to richer couples/singles because they are paid. (Of course there is the question of consciousness, of subjectivity: many women who get paid say that this is not their primary goal, but without money they most certainly would not undergo a pregnancy for others.) Therefore there is no “purely altruistic” commitment (very few exceptions apart) as ALL the legislations canceling mater semper certa allow for “reimbursements” that can be conspicuous. Without money, there would be no surrogacy of relevance, just a few cases now and then. But the aim of the author – whether he realizes it or not – is to set up a market for newborns by obscuring what is really taking place in the countries that have introduced surrogacy. Another problem with the general framework of the paper is that, even though the author laments the identification of “woman” with “mother”, he basically suggests a method for a woman to become (by means of paying another woman) a mother even if the couple is infertile. Then we are back to square one with the identification woman=mother. A true alternative would be a change in culture that, instead of working for the social acceptance and normalization of rich couples paying poor women for their babies, would work for the social acceptance of women who cannot, or do not want, to become mothers. I am no native English speaker, so I cannot judge the overall quality of the language, but I noted that there is sometimes a lack of grammatical concordances between verb and subject, and there might be other errors (as in my own text). I do not understand for example “data saturation”. Other minor points: at p. 3 what is “holistic” in ART procedures, that is the artificialization of reproduction, that result in babies being born with more health problems than naturally conceived babies? What is a “foundational and an experimental level” (same page)? Why is infertility considered a particular case of “sickness” (same page), when the organism that is infertile is in fact generally healthy? What is a “visual text” (p. 4)? Should “corporate” at p. 6 not be “cooperate” (interesting slip of the tongue, as the article advocates for a new market in newborns)? Finally: at p. 8: surrogacy is not “one of the most progressive ways of addressing infertility”, nor “a desirable fertility alternative”, but buying and selling newborns exploiting the poor women that are forced by need to take up pregnancy as a job (even in the US they sign surrogacy contracts for such goals as paying for the tuitions of their other children). The TBAs might express this and the refusal of such a market in the language of religion, but they are closer to reality than the various experts who stand to gain from the introduction of this juridical institution. 