 Describing image patterns in natural structure is not my area, therefore my comments are quite general. I have tried running the tool on two different OS and tried out most of the functions using several images. Generally, the tool and functions work as described. The documentation is reasonably well written and easy to follow. R is quite lacking in image analysis, therefore this package could be a useful little addition. For effectively following the workflow described here, optimal thresholding is the key. The thresholding offered with the package is too basic and the user has to rely on external tools. To compare the resulting metrics, two images need to be exactly comparable. The zoom/crop/scaling of the image, the lighting conditions, shadow etc would most likely render the results incomparable. This is something to be handled by external tools as well. My opinion is that image recognition and classification has to be implemented as some sort of machine learning algorithm rather than any manual thresholding for practical real world application. See relevant example 1 . No implementation to work with large images (Sparse matrices etc). Only available option is to scale down the image and work with a smaller image. Issues with small image size is briefly discussed in the manuscript. Summary functions would be nice. Some simple functions to visualise the results would be nice. For example just to preview the thresholded image, I used image(t(apply(img_thres,2,rev))). Benchmarking: It's hard to say how good the results are. It would've been nice to see a comparison of this tool to other existing tools in terms of efficiency as well as accuracy. For example; How does SCNP compare to other measures of aggregation (used in this field)? It would be nice to see some sort of use case on real world dataset rather than a few isolated images. A detailed HTML vignette showcasing all the functionality and typical use case workflows. The r-bloggers tutorial was a good start but I wouldn't consider that as a stable location. Perhaps on github along with the source? Possible typos in function names: heigh_maximum, heigh_propotion, heigh_propotion_test, hole_columm. At least, it's consistent with Table 1 in the manuscript. In figure 2, dimension of sub plot I is missing in the caption. Figure 3 caption typo: Imagens. Typo Page 8, last line of acknowledgements. acknowledg. 