The article describes a new R package, PPInfer, for inferring functions of proteins based on their connectivity in a PPI network. Discovery of new functions for proteins is an important problem and the method as described is an interesting and theoretically sound approach. The authors provide detailed example code for using PPInfer. Unfortunately, when trying to reproduce the use case, there was an error in the first step: K.10090 - readRDS("K10090.rds") Error in gzfile(file, "rb") : cannot open the connection In addition: Warning message: In gzfile(file, "rb") : cannot open compressed file 'K10090.rds', probable reason 'No such file or directory' Therefore, we couldn't test the rest of the use case. Also, in general, the use case would benefit from more text explanation so that readers understand the purpose of the tool and how to interpret the results. Specifically: What is the meaning of the gene ratio on the x-axis in Figure 1? In Figure 3, are the nodes enriched KEGG pathways and GO terms as determined by GSEA? What was the threshold for deciding which nodes should appear in the graph? What is the biological message of this graph? A discussion of the functionally related proteins themselves (not just the enriched terms/pathways) would be helpful. How do these proteins functionally interact with the ras pathway proteins in the STRING network? Perhaps you could discuss the STRING confidence scores or types of evidence for these interactions. It would be helpful to have more discussion of exactly what we learn from this approach. Can we infer that the proteins identified in the use case might be involved in the Ras pathway? It seems like based on the GO/KEGG annotation for the proteins, we could already have assumed they had something to do with signal transduction even without knowing that they are closely associated with Ras pathway proteins. Are there any examples of proteins whose association with the Ras pathway was surprising? Are there any proteins about which little is known or whose GO/KEGG annotation does not indiciate that they would be associated with the Ras pathway? Please note that for questions 3, 4, and 5 on the referee report form: we were unable to fully evaluate this as we were unable to run the software. We have therefore assigned the answer "no" to reflect this. 