Dr B. T. Seiler and co-workers present the next application of magnetic beads coated with genetically engineered form of the human MBL CRD linked to IgG Fc domain (FcMBL beads). Previously, the same group of researchers reported usefulness of that invention (in a form of biospleen or extracorporeal hemoadsorption device) in the efficient clearance of microorganisms’ cells as well as their PAMPs from blood. The presented manuscript is the valuable extension of work by Cartwright et al. (2016) 1 , where FcMBL-beads were used for the rapid detection of broad spectrum pathogens in the whole blood (ELLecSA). The authors demonstrated interaction of FcMBL with bacteria, fungi and parasites. The authors confirmed also their finding that antibiotic treatment or mechanical disruption increases FcMBL-binding. No case of decreased binding after antibiotic treatment or bead milling was observed, however some isolates, even after disruption were still not recognised by FcMBL. Among them there were Enterococcus faecalis and Proteus isolates. These finding are in agreement with previous reports by Geiss-Liebisch et al. (2012) 2 and Man-Kupisinska et al. (2018) 3 . Geiss-Liebisch demonstrated that wall teichoic acids and rhamnopolysaccharide of E. faecalis prevent peptidoglycan from MBL binding. Whereas Man-Kupisinska, despite observed common interaction of MBL with the conservative inner core of numerous enterobacterial lipopolysaccharides, did not find MBL interaction with 42 of 70 tested Proteus vulgaris , Proteus mirabilis and Proteus penneri isolated LPSs. The authors should consider including this information into the manuscript. The authors also presented ability of FcMBL to capture isolated bacterial and viral antigens. They also described detection of M.tuberculosis mannosylated LAM in spiked blood and urine. Surprisingly, the sensitivity in urine was markedly reduced, not only in comparison to buffer but also in comparison to blood. Previously the authors described that there are inhibitors (probably immunoglobulins) in joint fluids preventing FcMBL interaction with bacteria. Treatment with proteases and hyaluronidase was proposed to improve pathogen capture. Since rapid and sensitive method of LAM detection in urine could be of big importance in TB diagnosis, it would be important to identify these inhibitors. This is a very important and well done study. FcMBL-coated beads are demonstrated as a sensitive alternative to the time consuming and often false negative blood culture. It can also be a fantastic tool, helpful in the screening and simple identification of MBL ligands (for example – after SDS-PAGE-WB and immunostaining with PAMP-specific antibodies). Minor points Mannosylated LAM Mycobaterium tuberculosis H37Rv strain should be described as “ManLAM” Page 4: probably should be “including multiple isolates” instead of “including multiple species” On the page 4, referring to Table 1 - the authors stated that they tested FcMBL binding to 12 different species of fungi. However , in Table 1 only 3 isolates belonging to 3 species are listed and in Figure 4 – results of FcMBL interaction with 13 fungi isolates is presented. It is confusing. On page 3 the Authors stated that pathogens were treated with antibiotic within 4 hours, however according to the method section – “bacteria were treated with antibiotics for ≥4 hours”. It should be clarified. 