The methods article from Hamilton et al provides a strong rationale for an improved and accessible model for HSC engraftment in a larval zebrafish. Humanised mouse models require severe procedure methodology and limitations in visualising the engraftment process essential for understanding human mechanisms and zebrafish offer an alternative, complementary model in which to do so. The methodology provided is detailed enough to be translated and repeated accurately. As the authors highlight, this model has potential for be up-scaled for high-throughput methodology for drug screening and offers a necessary complementary model to reduce the number of rodents needed for pre-clinical study. Further investigation in this model would prove interesting to see how engrafted HSCs develop into various lineages and employing the porous nature of the zebrafish embryo to investigate drug treatment to encourage engraftment/proliferation/lineage development. Points to consider for revision: When isolating the CD34+ cells using both magnetic beads and antibodies, do the authors remove these markers before transplantation? Have the authors investigated an innate immune cellular response to the engraftment of human cells? How do cells react to the changes in temperature (37 -28 degrees) for zebrafish incubation? Have the authors experimented using different incubation temperatures for fish comparable to some tumour lines? How does the engraftment impact the development of native zebrafish HSCs (from 30hpf) and production of haematopoietic markers? How does the changing productivity of the CHT tissue (in the developing organism) affect the longevity of the engraftment? What happens to the model after the development of the mature adaptive immune system in the zebrafish after 2 weeks – is this the end of the experiment, and engraftment and lineage cannot be investigated further than this? How many of the cells that ‘lodged’ into the tissue went on to proliferate at later timepoints 2-13hpt? Please ensure full details of statistical analyses that were performed are provided in the methods and also that the results of these analyses are described in the main text. Also the figure legends should include details of the statistical comparisons made with any significant results being indicated on the relevant figures. Minor corrections in the manuscript: ‘Transplanted’ should be ‘transplantation’ on page 4 left column line 5 Can the authors label figure 4 as done in figure 5, the dorsal aorta, caudal vein and stem cell tissue. In the ‘future validation assay’ section the authors say kidney bone marrow instead of kidney marrow What time point are the images in 5C taken? Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Partly Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 