The authors report a case of partially reversible right unilateral visual loss following elective resection of a right frontal arteriovenous malformation. Immediate ophthalmologic assessment in recovery is compatible with ischemic optic neuropathy (ION), a condition not commonly reported following neurosurgical surgery in supine position. The pathophysiology of ION remains unclear; it is most likely multifactorial. Abstract Although clearly specified in the case description, I would clarify the abstract by adding a couple of details about the procedure: right frontal craniotomy for resection of an AVM in supine position, under general anesthesia. This is just too properly set the table before digging in, so to speak… Also, I would mention that the patient partially recovered vision 3 months after surgery, for the sake of completeness. Introduction I would leave the specifics of ION (presentation, assessment, causes mechanisms) for the discussion altogether. POVL prevalence reports (0.0012% general surgery; 0.03% spine surgery; 0.086% cardiac surgery) and general classes of POVL (corneal, retinal including CRAO, optic, chiasma and tracts, cortical) are all that is needed for the introduction here. Case description Since obesity is a known risk factor for ION, I would mention the patient’s height weight. Were there any visual issues at baseline? I assume there weren’t any, but I would mention it anyway. Were any of the AVM feeders embolized prior to craniotomy? Were there any other abnormalities noticed on the cerebral angiogram? In particular, since the AVM was in proximity to the right optic area; were there any arterial branches coming off the feeders? If so, could arterial exclusion have caused optic ischemia? Was the circle of Willis normal on preoperative control? We typically perform an immediate postoperative angiogram following AVM resection to confirm complete resection of the AVM, as well as to assess perfusion of normal vessels. Did you perform such an exam before emergence and extubation? If so, I would mention it with a brief description of results. The discussion about potential mechanisms of ION is interesting. It appears to me that ION is a multifactorial process combining the focal effects of arterial hypotension, venous hypertension, and decreased oxygen capacity. Arterial blood pressure and oxygen capacity seem to have been managed properly in this case. The combination of elevated intra-ocular pressures and borderline low arterial pressures puts the optic nerve at risk of ischemia. You mention anti-glaucoma therapy having potentially helped to improve perfusion of the optic nerve; was this patient known for glaucoma? Venous hypertension remains a possibility; how was the head positioned during the case? Did mechanical ventilation require high peak pressures restricting cerebral venous drainage? In any case, I believe this case report deserves an ‘Approved’ status but needs minor additions imposed by the specific location of the AVM relative to the visual loss. Mainly: 1. minor details about patient at baseline (height weight, visual status) 2. preoperative angiographic assessment (feeders, Willis) and management (embolization) 3. postoperative angiographic assessment, if any. The general discussion about ION is interesting and most relevant to this case. I found it clear and well referenced.