In this paper, Gizelle, Courtney, Yuri and Adron have undertook a difficult task of determining the expression pattern of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), their adapter proteins and downstream effector proteins in CNS cells. This is an important and timely work which emphasizes the importance of establishing the appropriate tools in order to advance an entire field. After reading the manuscript, I'd like to raise the following points: Technical comment: under "tissue harvest and microglial isolation", it is described that the used kit for tissue dissociation uses papain. Is it possible that this type of dissociation degraded some of the extracellular epitopes and altered their expression in subsequent western blots? Perhaps it should be cautioned that different enzymes or dissociation methods can result in different outcomes. Under "protein isolation and western blots", it is mentioned that appropriate loading controls could not be found for all cell types. This is understandable, as specialized CNS cells contain different levels of proteins such as beta-actin, alpha tubulin, beta tubulin and others. Please indicate which proteins were tested in your hands. With respect to the probes used for in-situ hybridization, it is entirely possible that different cells will express different splice variants of the genes. Has that been taken into consideration? On page 6, results section, it is unclear to me why there is a lack of NeuN expression in the CD11-/ACSA2- fraction (Figure 2C). Should it not contain neuronal cells? On the 2nd results paragraph, the fold change in expression of the different genes is indicated. I think that it should be further stressed that despite the fact that fold changes are important to note, the very expression, even though it is in smaller levels, of TLRs 2,3 and 4 is present in non-microglial cells. On page 7, under "antibody validation in knockout tissue and HEK-293 cells". It is debatable whether post-translational modification can alter the size of a protein in a gel. Also, a KO tissue which lacks the target of the antibody can still express a target which will be second-in-highest affinity in absence of the original target. therefore, overexpressing the target of interest (TLR2,3,4 etc fused to GFP) will determine clearly whether the commercial antibody is capable of binding its target. This way, if the antibody cannot bind its target TLR but GFP can be detected, this is a definite proof that the antibody fails to detect its target under these conditions. Table S2 should also include specification of the declared application for the antibody by the manufacturer, whether it is denaturative WB, IHC, ELISA etc... On the same note, although this information is often missing from datasheets of commercial antibodies, the epitope used to vaccinate against should be indicated. On page 13, the issue of a microglial-specific marker, Tmem119 , not being detected on microglail cells using the described protocol is of concern. I understand that 0.1% Tween-20 was used. Is it possible that a more harsh detergent at a higher concentration would solve this issue? For example - 0.5-1% triton-x? In the discussion, the issue of expression of adapter-protein expression in various cells is discussed. Despite the fact that MyD88 is a signaling mediator of the IL1R family, which is also reported to be abundantly expressed in the brain, it is not discussed in the paper. Therefore, the expression of certain signaling molecules could be the result of pathways unrelated to TLRs but rather to other immune receptors such as IL1R. On the last sentence on page 15, the authors rightfully, and correctly indicated that the current analysis cannot take into consideration any brain-region specific expressions, and that the probes used cannot address alterations in splice variants. This by itself could draw the conclusion that a similar effort should concentrate at a specific TLR at a time, studying the different splice variants in details throughout the brain. Minor points: Page 4, left column, the end of the second paragraph - a reference has to be added following "expression in neurons". Same page, right column, lines 3-4, immune activation is exemplified by LPS. I think that it should be stated that it is TLR4-specific immune activation, as there are numerous ways to activate the immune response by different pathways. Please abbreviate "MS" in page 5, left column: "eluted using MS columns". Same page, right column, please abbreviate "NBF": "in 10% NBF overnight.." On page 16, first sentence, i think that it is better to replace 1:1 with 'correlative', as 1:1 relates to quantifiable ratios, whereas the agreement between mRNA to proteins is describes as trends. 