The article "Best practice data life cycle approaches for the life sciences", submitted by Griffin et al. reports opinions on how to best manage the growing complexity of scientific data in the life sciences. The article touches on an extremely important topic that is currently very purely covered in the literature. In fact, data-driven approaches in the biosciences will strongly rely on professional concepts of data management. In brief, I recommend the indexing of the article, as we urgently need stronger awareness of this topic, upon the implementation of some (probably rather minor) changes to the article. The article nicely illustrates the needs in data life cycle management and also suggests best concepts to be followed by researchers. The main content of the article has been compiled based on a workshop that was attended by the authors. At some statements the article reads like the minutes of this meeting; I suggest editing the corresponding paragraphs to avoid the impression of reading meeting minutes. I suggest the following issues to be fixed before indexing: Figure 1: This illustration is very important and can be used by many readers. I suggest to use figures wherever possible to replace the words such as “finding”, “integrating”, … The reference to Figure 1 in the second paragraph states that it illustrates a specific aim to the life sciences. I don’t see which of these points should be specific to the life science, but would rather argue that these principles are rather generic and provides a cycle for business intelligence processes in general. It might also be a good location to reference the DAMA (Data management association internation, dama.org) and specifically to the DAMA Body of Knowledge, which is one of the few references for data management and also data life cycle considerations. Further needed references should hint to the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health (ga4gh.org). Page 13: The paragraph on data sharing missing some discussion on authentication issues. I would like see some introduction and discussion to the OpenID concept. Especially for medical data there need to be appropriate mechanisms to trace users, concepts for data privacy and so on. As a best practice use case for these topics, the mechanism from ICGC could be introduced. The following paragraph states: “A few workshop participants…”. Rephrase, no meeting minutes.. I would have loved to see more use cases/examples for the individual best practices. E.g. for the data sharing the ICGC efforts could be described more thoroughly. The article would benefit for 2-3 additional figures. I guess it could be a nice figure to illustrate the concept of controlled vocabularies and/or ontologies. While this seems to be trivial for bioinformaticians/computer scientists, it is not that obvious what it means to non-computer scientists; inspiration for figures can also be obtained by the data sharing mechanisms for the Global alliance for Genomics and Health Minor things: The forth paragraph in the introduction starts with “During the week of 24-28 October 2016…”. I suggest either avoiding that paragraph or formulating it differently. The reader should not be reading the meeting minutes. 