1. The authors are correct in stating that no previous meta-analysis of the effects of citrus fruits has been performed. The results are not surprising as stone clinicians consider citrus supplementation (or potassium citrate) of important utility. However, the meta-analysis is reasonable to perform as the intervention is commonly administered. 2.The studies are similar enough to consider a meta-analysis worth doing. One study used diet orange soda which is not citrus juice (I am the senior author of that study). There is otherwise an appropriate selection of studies, based on availability of the requisite data which the authors explain in detail. 3. The limitations of the data include the relatively small sample size, so that the meta-analysis is also underpowered but shows the expected increase in urine citrate and the increase in urine pH only in stone formers and not in non-stone forming controls. No studies actually assess stone formation as an outcome, addressing only urinary chemistry. 4. The conclusions appear reasonable, and are well-stated, if not surprising. 5. Table 1 could be improved by including the dose of juice for all the interventions. 6. I did not find a legend for figure 2 about bias assessment. The figure is hazy, not of perfect resolution. There is no interpretation of the bias assessment in the manuscript. It is worth noting that it is probably not possible to blind participants to citrus juice vs water. The other criteria, such as blinding to sequence allocation may also not be critical to a study of urine chemistry and not of kidney stone outcomes. 7. Regarding Curhan’s finding that grapefruit juice was associated with higher risk for stones, mentioned in the discussion, that finding was not confirmed in a later study 1 . 8. In the introduction, the authors state “whereas citrate could prevent stone formation by ionizing urinary calcium”: this is not quite correct. Citrate binds to ionic calcium and prevents it from binding to oxalate or phosphate. 