In this manuscript, Christofi and Apidianakis present an extension of their previous work on immune priming with Pseudomonas aeruginosa . They focus on the duration of the protective response elicited against the virulent PA14 strain by pre-treating adult Drosophila flies with live or heat-killed low-in virulence CF5 bacteria. There are few new insights into the mechanisms by which the protective effect is mediated (involvement of the Toll, Rel and Imd pathways as well as phagocytosis), but the report makes the important point that the duration and extent of priming will vary greatly with the bacteria or fungi used in the experiments, and strongly advocates that future studies into the adaptive characteristics of insect immunity should be carried out over more than a day rather than a few hours as it is commonly done. Careful and extended time-courses will uncover important differences in how priming can lead to significantly diverse responses to infection with one strain of bacteria or another. General : I do have some issues and would like the authors to comment on the following: The authors present reasonably performed experiments, but I do have some reservation about the conclusions drawn from their experiments. In particular, I was struck that OR and CS strains show some differences in response to priming (Fig. 3). While the end point is similar at 30h for both strains, they show very distinct survival rates between 25 and 29h. This apparent difference might suggest that different genetic background will play an important role in the priming response. In that regard, I wonder why the OR or CS were chosen as controls, rather than strains that are of the same genetic background than the mutants used in this study. What is also surprising is that the authors chose to ignore the apparent discrepancy between the two strains, and furthermore go on to perform additional experiments where they either chose OR (Fig. 4, 5) or CS (Fig. 6, 7) without really justifying or giving a rationale why they included a particular control strain rather than the other. For consistency sake, it would have been better to select one or the other, or include both stains in each experiment. I am probably missing something but I don’t get the logic in Fig 7. The double priming at 5 and 7 days prior to infection is said to extend the protective effect over that of 7 days, but in reality they are looking at flies which had been primed last at 5 days prior the challenge. To me, the correct comparison should have been doubly primed CS flies vs. 5 day primed CS flies, rather than untreated CS. Untreated flies should have been included, but only to serve as a reference. One potential explanation for the modest involvement of plasmatocytes and phagocytosis in mediating protection against a challenge with PA14 might be that the initial priming leads to a transient increase in plasmatocytes. It would be nice to have a sense of whether the number of circulating plasmatocytes is increased after priming. I realize that the protection observed in priming is supposed to be strain specific (no cross protection against other bacteria); however, the protective effect related in this report is rather modest. As such, one wonders whether there are two types of responses: 1) The increase in plasmatocytes, which alone would confer a broad protection but be too weak to have a significant effect on other bacteria, and 2) The humoral and recognition pathways that confer specificity against a particular strain. Minor: The sentence on page 2, starting with “In addition to the plasmatocyte-expressed…” to the end of the paragraph is awkward and needs to be edited.