I enjoyed reading this methodology paper which lays out clearly steps required to achieve successful xenotransplantation in zebrafish embryos and how subsequent growth and dissemination of cancer cells can be monitored. The attached method protocol would be improved by inclusion of the below details: Explain how to remove embryos from agarose using forceps Indicate an appropriate model of microtitre plate for imaging purposes with an inverted microscope (does imaging require glass bottom plates or a certain grade of plasticware?) Specify where they obtained the plastic pin mold: have they manufactured it, requested it, or purchased it? Comment on whether 72 h incubation in anesthetic is detrimental to embryo health/development Which image analysis modules/tools were used in Velocity and Image J. Mention whether default parameters were selected or otherwise? Why 2D rather than 3D distances were calculated using Velocity? Velocity is relatively expensive proprietary software and may not therefore be widely accessible, whereas Image J is free. Could the whole analysis not be undertaken with Image J? Specify an appropriate method of ensuring destruction of the embryos within 120 hpf Turning to the rest of the manuscript: Explain what metrics would be captured by the analysis depicted in Fig 1B and present a representative graph. Mean/median migration distance? Is there a way of distinguishing between several small clusters of cells or a few larger ones? Specify the cell line used for Fig 2. How efficient is the model for capturing intravasation events? How many cells are captured intravasating per hour per embryo? The presentation and analysis of data in Fig 3B is inappropriate as these are not independent populations of cells. A line graph and linear regression is the appropriate analysis. Does proliferation contribute to the expansion of cells in the caudal hematopoietic tissue? It would be of value to include a statement describing the distribution of fluospheres injected either into the yolk or into the duct of cuvier Are a suitable application and appropriate end-users identified? Yes If applicable, is the statistical analysis and its interpretation appropriate? Partly Are the 3Rs implications of the work described accurately? Yes 