The article "RNA-seq assembler artifacts can bias expression counts and differential expression analysis - application of YeATS on the chickpea transcriptome" reports putative assembly artifacts in the chickpea transcriptome and discusses possible impacts on the expression counts. The main message is that it should become mandatory to make intermediate data, such as assembled transcripts, accessible. With respect to this the title is not appropriate. Additionally the title should not explicitly mention YeATS, and the fact the artifacts can bias expression counts is not surprising. The title needs to be changed. There are some wrong claims in the introduction, but overall the intro is acceptable. In contrast, the Methods section is insufficient in its current form. It lacks information to reproduce the results. Interestingly, this is a point that the author stresses in the introduction. Furthermore, some of the used tools and datasets seem inappropriate (e.g. getorf to translate transcripts to peptides. Further concerns are provided in the detailed comments below). In the Results, the author presents some examples of putative assembly artifacts found in highly expressed transcripts. Unfortunately, no information about the actual errors that result from the artifacts is provided. Furthermore, finding such artifacts in a single dataset does not satisfy to claim these as a widespread problem. Overall, the manuscript is hard to read. One reason is the quality of the language that makes it hard to follow the authors reasoning. Another reason, is that there seems to be no clear story, that is to be presented. What is the main point the author wants to make? Is it reproducibility, the problem of assembly artifacts or that more data needs to be made freely accessible? p.3: 'In computational studies, the exact replication of the output of most computer programs is difficult as most non-trivial algorithms use heuristics' Comment: Heuristics do not contradict reproducibility. p.3: 'The three longest ORFs were obtained using the ‘getorf’ utility in the EMBOSS suite 2' Comment: Is assured that these ORFs do not overlap on either strand? p.3: 'BLAST’ed 2' Comment: Provide details, like E-value cutoff, and so on. p.3: 'Type I error occurs when a single transcript has multiple ORFs with significant matches to different genes' Comment: How is significance assessed? How are multiple significant matches of the same ORF treated? Is the best selected? p.3: 'the ‘plantpep.fasta’' Comment: It is not clear to me why the author uses a database of plant proteins rather than looking at the mapping to the genome, to identify assembly errors. Another option would be to use chickpea protein sequences from the genome. p.3: 'In a Type II error a single gene is broken into two separate transcripts' Comment: How is this detected from the BLAST results? p.3: 'For a type III error, a single transcript has multiple ORFs, but they all map to the same gene' Comment: Are the ORFs perhaps overlapping? p.3: 'was first mapped to the chickpea genome' Comment: How? p.3: 'The RNA-seq [8,9] derived transcriptome of chickpea has also been sequenced [10]' Comment: This sentence makes not much sense. p.3: 'short sequence-based approaches [12], RNA-seq detects transcripts with very low expression levels.' Comment: RNA-seq is also based on short sequence reads, which depends on the used sequencing technology. The detection of low expressed transcripts heavily depends on the used sequencing depth and is not an inherent feature of it. p.3: 'metagenomic contamination' Comment: This term does not exist. Simply say contamination. p.3: 'split ' Comment: Split is misleading. p.3: 'significant' Comment: How is significance measured? p.3: 'FB:4, ML:5, RT:3, SH:4 YP:5' Comment: Some transcripts occur several times in different tissues, TC00004 for example. What would be the non-redundant numbers? Does it at all make sense to differentiate between tissues for this study? p.3: 'are' Comment: as p.3: 'retinoblastoma-binding-like protein' Comment: Does this annotation make sense for a plant protein? p.3: 'have' Comment: be p.3: 'This transcript is highly fragmented and encodes on both strands in an overlapping manner' Comment: This sound like this is a transcript from a pseudogene and the predicted ORFs are wrong. p.4: 'TC13991 has a count of 17.90, while TC23009 has a count of 1403.8. The large difference indicates an erroneous normalization algorithm, since there is only one expressed transcript of this gene (the ORF of TC13991 has no other significant match among other transcripts), although there are other genomic variants.' Comment: First, the author argues that these two transcripts should be merged, but then he is concerned about the fact that, although different genomic variants of the corresponding gene exist, there is only one transcript. It looks like the transcripts resemble the genomic situation, although very poorly. It would be interesting to see the alignment on the nucleotide level. p.4t: 'Furthermore, there is a missing 35 aa stretch in the C-terminal peptide “IGFDNVRQVQCISFIAHTPKEF”, which has no match in the transcripts' Comment: What is meant with the missing 35aa stretch? The missing C-terminal part has 22aa. p.4: 'merged transcripts are proximally located in the genome' Comment: Please clarify what this is intended to mean. Which merged transcripts?