contents page lord arthur savile’s crime <UNK> the canterville ghost <UNK> the sphinx without a secret <UNK> the model millionaire <UNK> the portrait of mr. w. h. <UNK> lord arthur savile’s crime a study of duty chapter i it was lady windermere’s last reception before easter, and bentinck house was even more crowded than usual. six cabinet ministers had come on from the speaker’s levée in their stars and ribands, all the pretty women wore their smartest dresses, and at the end of the picture-gallery stood the princess sophia of carlsrühe, a heavy tartar-looking lady, with tiny black eyes and wonderful emeralds, talking bad french at the top of her voice, and laughing immoderately at everything that was said to her. it was certainly a wonderful medley of people. gorgeous peeresses chatted affably to violent radicals, popular preachers brushed coat-tails with eminent sceptics, a perfect bevy of bishops kept following a stout prima-donna from room to room, on the staircase stood several royal academicians, disguised as artists, and it was said that at one time the supper-room was absolutely crammed with geniuses. in fact, it was one of lady windermere’s best nights, and the princess stayed till nearly half-past eleven. as soon as she had gone, lady windermere returned to the picture-gallery, where a celebrated political economist was solemnly explaining the scientific theory of music to an indignant virtuoso from hungary, and began to talk to the duchess of paisley. she looked wonderfully beautiful with her grand ivory throat, her large blue forget-me-not eyes, and her heavy coils of golden hair. _or pur_ they were—not that pale straw colour that nowadays usurps the gracious name of gold, but such gold as is woven into sunbeams or hidden in strange amber; and they gave to her face something of the frame of a saint, with not a little of the fascination of a sinner. she was a curious psychological study. early in life she had discovered the important truth that nothing looks so like innocence as an indiscretion; and by a series of reckless escapades, half of them quite harmless, she had acquired all the privileges of a personality. she had more than once changed her husband; indeed, debrett credits her with three marriages; but as she had never changed her lover, the world had long ago ceased to talk scandal about her. she was now forty years of age, childless, and with that inordinate passion for pleasure which is the secret of remaining young. suddenly she looked eagerly round the room, and said, in her clear contralto voice, ‘where is my cheiromantist?’ ‘your what, gladys?’ exclaimed the duchess, giving an involuntary start. ‘my cheiromantist, duchess; i can’t live without him at present.’ ‘dear gladys! you are always so original,’ murmured the duchess, trying to remember what a cheiromantist really was, and hoping it was not the same as a cheiropodist. ‘he comes to see my hand twice a week regularly,’ continued lady windermere, ‘and is most interesting about it.’ ‘good heavens!’ said the duchess to herself, ‘he is a sort of cheiropodist after all. how very dreadful. i hope he is a foreigner at any rate. it wouldn’t be quite so bad then.’ ‘i must certainly introduce him to you.’ ‘introduce him!’ cried the duchess; ‘you don’t mean to say he is here?’ and she began looking about for a small tortoise-shell fan and a very tattered lace shawl, so as to be ready to go at a moment’s notice. ‘of course he is here; i would not dream of giving a party without him. he tells me i have a pure psychic hand, and that if my thumb had been the least little bit shorter, i should have been a confirmed pessimist, and gone into a convent.’ ‘oh, i see!’ said the duchess, feeling very much relieved; ‘he tells fortunes, i suppose?’ ‘and misfortunes, too,’ answered lady windermere, ‘any amount of them. next year, for instance, i am in great danger, both by land and sea, so i am going to live in a balloon, and draw up my dinner in a basket every evening. it is all written down on my little finger, or on the palm of my hand, i forget which.’ ‘but surely that is tempting providence, gladys.’ ‘my dear duchess, surely providence can resist temptation by this time. i think every one should have their hands told once a month, so as to know what not to do. of course, one does it all the same, but it is so pleasant to be warned. now if some one doesn’t go and fetch mr. podgers at once, i shall have to go myself.’ ‘let me go, lady windermere,’ said a tall handsome young man, who was standing by, listening to the conversation with an amused smile. ‘thanks so much, lord arthur; but i am afraid you wouldn’t recognise him.’ ‘if he is as wonderful as you say, lady windermere, i couldn’t well miss him. tell me what he is like, and i’ll bring him to you at once.’ ‘well, he is not a bit like a cheiromantist. i mean he is not mysterious, or esoteric, or romantic-looking. he is a little, stout man, with a funny, bald head, and great gold-rimmed spectacles; something between a family doctor and a country attorney. i’m really very sorry, but it is not my fault. people are so annoying. all my pianists look exactly like poets, and all my poets look exactly like pianists; and i remember last season asking a most dreadful conspirator to dinner, a man who had blown up ever so many people, and always wore a coat of mail, and carried a dagger up his shirt-sleeve; and do you know that when he came he looked just like a nice old clergyman, and cracked jokes all the evening? of course, he was very amusing, and all that, but i was awfully disappointed; and when i asked him about the coat of mail, he only laughed, and said it was far too cold to wear in england. ah, here is mr. podgers! now, mr. podgers, i want you to tell the duchess of paisley’s hand. duchess, you must take your glove off. no, not the left hand, the other.’ ‘dear gladys, i really don’t think it is quite right,’ said the duchess, feebly unbuttoning a rather soiled kid glove. ‘nothing interesting ever is,’ said lady windermere: ‘_on a fait le monde ainsi_. but i must introduce you. duchess, this is mr. podgers, my pet cheiromantist. mr. podgers, this is the duchess of paisley, and if you say that she has a larger mountain of the moon than i have, i will never believe in you again.’ ‘i am sure, gladys, there is nothing of the kind in my hand,’ said the duchess gravely. ‘your grace is quite right,’ said mr. podgers, glancing at the little fat hand with its short square fingers, ‘the mountain of the moon is not developed. the line of life, however, is excellent. kindly bend the wrist. thank you. three distinct lines on the _rascette_! you will live to a great age, duchess, and be extremely happy. ambition—very moderate, line of intellect not exaggerated, line of heart—’ ‘now, do be indiscreet, mr. podgers,’ cried lady windermere. ‘nothing would give me greater pleasure,’ said mr. podgers, bowing, ‘if the duchess ever had been, but i am sorry to say that i see great permanence of affection, combined with a strong sense of duty.’ ‘pray go on, mr. podgers,’ said the duchess, looking quite pleased. ‘economy is not the least of your grace’s virtues,’ continued mr. podgers, and lady windermere went off into fits of laughter. ‘economy is a very good thing,’ remarked the duchess complacently; ‘when i married paisley he had eleven castles, and not a single house fit to live in.’ ‘and now he has twelve houses, and not a single castle,’ cried lady windermere. ‘well, my dear,’ said the duchess, ‘i like—’ ‘comfort,’ said mr. podgers, ‘and modern improvements, and hot water laid on in every bedroom. your grace is quite right. comfort is the only thing our civilisation can give us. ‘you have told the duchess’s character admirably, mr. podgers, and now you must tell lady flora’s’; and in answer to a nod from the smiling hostess, a tall girl, with sandy scotch hair, and high shoulder-blades, stepped awkwardly from behind the sofa, and held out a long, bony hand with spatulate fingers. ‘ah, a pianist! i see,’ said mr. podgers, ‘an excellent pianist, but perhaps hardly a musician. very reserved, very honest, and with a great love of animals.’ ‘quite true!’ exclaimed the duchess, turning to lady windermere, ‘absolutely true! flora keeps two dozen collie dogs at macloskie, and would turn our town house into a menagerie if her father would let her.’ ‘well, that is just what i do with my house every thursday evening,’ cried lady windermere, laughing, ‘only i like lions better than collie dogs.’ ‘your one mistake, lady windermere,’ said mr. podgers, with a pompous bow. ‘if a woman can’t make her mistakes charming, she is only a female,’ was the answer. ‘but you must read some more hands for us. come, sir thomas, show mr. podgers yours’; and a genial-looking old gentleman, in a white waistcoat, came forward, and held out a thick rugged hand, with a very long third finger. ‘an adventurous nature; four long voyages in the past, and one to come. been ship-wrecked three times. no, only twice, but in danger of a shipwreck your next journey. a strong conservative, very punctual, and with a passion for collecting curiosities. had a severe illness between the ages sixteen and eighteen. was left a fortune when about thirty. great aversion to cats and radicals.’ ‘extraordinary!’ exclaimed sir thomas; ‘you must really tell my wife’s hand, too.’ ‘your second wife’s,’ said mr. podgers quietly, still keeping sir thomas’s hand in his. ‘your second wife’s. i shall be charmed’; but lady marvel, a melancholy-looking woman, with brown hair and sentimental eyelashes, entirely declined to have her past or her future exposed; and nothing that lady windermere could do would induce monsieur de koloff, the russian ambassador, even to take his gloves off. in fact, many people seemed afraid to face the odd little man with his stereotyped smile, his gold spectacles, and his bright, beady eyes; and when he told poor lady fermor, right out before every one, that she did not care a bit for music, but was extremely fond of musicians, it was generally felt that cheiromancy was a most dangerous science, and one that ought not to be encouraged, except in a _tête-à-tête_. lord arthur savile, however, who did not know anything about lady fermor’s unfortunate story, and who had been watching mr. podgers with a great deal of interest, was filled with an immense curiosity to have his own hand read, and feeling somewhat shy about putting himself forward, crossed over the room to where lady windermere was sitting, and, with a charming blush, asked her if she thought mr. podgers would mind. ‘of course, he won’t mind,’ said lady windermere, ‘that is what he is here for. all my lions, lord arthur, are performing lions, and jump through hoops whenever i ask them. but i must warn you beforehand that i shall tell sybil everything. she is coming to lunch with me to-morrow, to talk about bonnets, and if mr. podgers finds out that you have a bad temper, or a tendency to gout, or a wife living in bayswater, i shall certainly let her know all about it.’ lord arthur smiled, and shook his head. ‘i am not afraid,’ he answered. ‘sybil knows me as well as i know her.’ ‘ah! i am a little sorry to hear you say that. the proper basis for marriage is a mutual misunderstanding. no, i am not at all cynical, i have merely got experience, which, however, is very much the same thing. mr. podgers, lord arthur savile is dying to have his hand read. don’t tell him that he is engaged to one of the most beautiful girls in london, because that appeared in the _morning post_ a month ago. ‘dear lady windermere,’ cried the marchioness of jedburgh, ‘do let mr. podgers stay here a little longer. he has just told me i should go on the stage, and i am so interested.’ ‘if he has told you that, lady jedburgh, i shall certainly take him away. come over at once, mr. podgers, and read lord arthur’s hand.’ ‘well,’ said lady jedburgh, making a little _moue_ as she rose from the sofa, ‘if i am not to be allowed to go on the stage, i must be allowed to be part of the audience at any rate.’ ‘of course; we are all going to be part of the audience,’ said lady windermere; ‘and now, mr. podgers, be sure and tell us something nice. lord arthur is one of my special favourites.’ but when mr. podgers saw lord arthur’s hand he grew curiously pale, and said nothing. a shudder seemed to pass through him, and his great bushy eyebrows twitched convulsively, in an odd, irritating way they had when he was puzzled. then some huge beads of perspiration broke out on his yellow forehead, like a poisonous dew, and his fat fingers grew cold and clammy. lord arthur did not fail to notice these strange signs of agitation, and, for the first time in his life, he himself felt fear. his impulse was to rush from the room, but he restrained himself. it was better to know the worst, whatever it was, than to be left in this hideous uncertainty. ‘i am waiting, mr. podgers,’ he said. ‘we are all waiting,’ cried lady windermere, in her quick, impatient manner, but the cheiromantist made no reply. ‘i believe arthur is going on the stage,’ said lady jedburgh, ‘and that, after your scolding, mr. podgers is afraid to tell him so.’ suddenly mr. podgers dropped lord arthur’s right hand, and seized hold of his left, bending down so low to examine it that the gold rims of his spectacles seemed almost to touch the palm. for a moment his face became a white mask of horror, but he soon recovered his _sang-froid_, and looking up at lady windermere, said with a forced smile, ‘it is the hand of a charming young man. ‘of course it is!’ answered lady windermere, ‘but will he be a charming husband? that is what i want to know.’ ‘all charming young men are,’ said mr. podgers. ‘i don’t think a husband should be too fascinating,’ murmured lady jedburgh pensively, ‘it is so dangerous.’ ‘my dear child, they never are too fascinating,’ cried lady windermere. ‘but what i want are details. details are the only things that interest. what is going to happen to lord arthur?’ ‘well, within the next few months lord arthur will go a voyage—’ ‘oh yes, his honeymoon, of course!’ ‘and lose a relative.’ ‘not his sister, i hope?’ said lady jedburgh, in a piteous tone of voice. ‘certainly not his sister,’ answered mr. podgers, with a deprecating wave of the hand, ‘a distant relative merely.’ ‘well, i am dreadfully disappointed,’ said lady windermere. ‘i have absolutely nothing to tell sybil to-morrow. no one cares about distant relatives nowadays. they went out of fashion years ago. however, i suppose she had better have a black silk by her; it always does for church, you know. and now let us go to supper. they are sure to have eaten everything up, but we may find some hot soup. françois used to make excellent soup once, but he is so agitated about politics at present, that i never feel quite certain about him. i do wish general boulanger would keep quiet. duchess, i am sure you are tired?’ ‘not at all, dear gladys,’ answered the duchess, waddling towards the door. ‘i have enjoyed myself immensely, and the cheiropodist, i mean the cheiromantist, is most interesting. flora, where can my tortoise-shell fan be? oh, thank you, sir thomas, so much. and my lace shawl, flora? oh, thank you, sir thomas, very kind, i’m sure’; and the worthy creature finally managed to get downstairs without dropping her scent-bottle more than twice. all this time lord arthur savile had remained standing by the fireplace, with the same feeling of dread over him, the same sickening sense of coming evil. he smiled sadly at his sister, as she swept past him on lord plymdale’s arm, looking lovely in her pink brocade and pearls, and he hardly heard lady windermere when she called to him to follow her. he thought of sybil merton, and the idea that anything could come between them made his eyes dim with tears. looking at him, one would have said that nemesis had stolen the shield of pallas, and shown him the gorgon’s head. he seemed turned to stone, and his face was like marble in its melancholy. he had lived the delicate and luxurious life of a young man of birth and fortune, a life exquisite in its freedom from sordid care, its beautiful boyish insouciance; and now for the first time he became conscious of the terrible mystery of destiny, of the awful meaning of doom. how mad and monstrous it all seemed! could it be that written on his hand, in characters that he could not read himself, but that another could decipher, was some fearful secret of sin, some blood-red sign of crime? was there no escape possible? were we no better than chessmen, moved by an unseen power, vessels the potter fashions at his fancy, for honour or for shame? his reason revolted against it, and yet he felt that some tragedy was hanging over him, and that he had been suddenly called upon to bear an intolerable burden. actors are so fortunate. they can choose whether they will appear in tragedy or in comedy, whether they will suffer or make merry, laugh or shed tears. but in real life it is different. most men and women are forced to perform parts for which they have no qualifications. our guildensterns play hamlet for us, and our hamlets have to jest like prince hal. the world is a stage, but the play is badly cast. suddenly mr. podgers entered the room. when he saw lord arthur he started, and his coarse, fat face became a sort of greenish-yellow colour. the two men’s eyes met, and for a moment there was silence. ‘the duchess has left one of her gloves here, lord arthur, and has asked me to bring it to her,’ said mr. podgers finally. ‘ah, i see it on the sofa! good evening.’ ‘mr. podgers, i must insist on your giving me a straightforward answer to a question i am going to put to you.’ ‘another time, lord arthur, but the duchess is anxious. i am afraid i must go.’ ‘you shall not go. the duchess is in no hurry.’ ‘ladies should not be kept waiting, lord arthur,’ said mr. podgers, with his sickly smile. ‘the fair sex is apt to be impatient.’ lord arthur’s finely-chiselled lips curled in petulant disdain. the poor duchess seemed to him of very little importance at that moment. he walked across the room to where mr. podgers was standing, and held his hand out. ‘tell me what you saw there,’ he said. ‘tell me the truth. i must know it. i am not a child.’ mr. podgers’s eyes blinked behind his gold-rimmed spectacles, and he moved uneasily from one foot to the other, while his fingers played nervously with a flash watch-chain. ‘what makes you think that i saw anything in your hand, lord arthur, more than i told you?’ ‘i know you did, and i insist on your telling me what it was. i will pay you. i will give you a cheque for a hundred pounds.’ the green eyes flashed for a moment, and then became dull again. ‘guineas?’ said mr. podgers at last, in a low voice. ‘certainly. i will send you a cheque to-morrow. what is your club?’ ‘i have no club. that is to say, not just at present. my address is—, but allow me to give you my card’; and producing a bit of gilt-edge pasteboard from his waistcoat pocket, mr. podgers handed it, with a low bow, to lord arthur, who read on it, _mr. septimus r. podgers_ _professional cheiromantist_ <UNK> _west moon street_ ‘my hours are from ten to four,’ murmured mr. podgers mechanically, ‘and i make a reduction for families.’ ‘be quick,’ cried lord arthur, looking very pale, and holding his hand out. mr. podgers glanced nervously round, and drew the heavy _portière_ across the door. ‘it will take a little time, lord arthur, you had better sit down.’ ‘be quick, sir,’ cried lord arthur again, stamping his foot angrily on the polished floor. mr. podgers smiled, drew from his breast-pocket a small magnifying glass, and wiped it carefully with his handkerchief. ‘i am quite ready,’ he said. chapter ii ten minutes later, with face blanched by terror, and eyes wild with grief, lord arthur savile rushed from bentinck house, crushing his way through the crowd of fur-coated footmen that stood round the large striped awning, and seeming not to see or hear anything. the night was bitter cold, and the gas-lamps round the square flared and flickered in the keen wind; but his hands were hot with fever, and his forehead burned like fire. on and on he went, almost with the gait of a drunken man. a policeman looked curiously at him as he passed, and a beggar, who slouched from an archway to ask for alms, grew frightened, seeing misery greater than his own. once he stopped under a lamp, and looked at his hands. he thought he could detect the stain of blood already upon them, and a faint cry broke from his trembling lips. murder! that is what the cheiromantist had seen there. murder! the very night seemed to know it, and the desolate wind to howl it in his ear. the dark corners of the streets were full of it. it grinned at him from the roofs of the houses. first he came to the park, whose sombre woodland seemed to fascinate him. he leaned wearily up against the railings, cooling his brow against the wet metal, and listening to the tremulous silence of the trees. ‘murder! murder!’ he kept repeating, as though iteration could dim the horror of the word. the sound of his own voice made him shudder, yet he almost hoped that echo might hear him, and wake the slumbering city from its dreams. he felt a mad desire to stop the casual passer-by, and tell him everything. then he wandered across oxford street into narrow, shameful alleys. two women with painted faces mocked at him as he went by. from a dark courtyard came a sound of oaths and blows, followed by shrill screams, and, huddled upon a damp door-step, he saw the crook-backed forms of poverty and eld. a strange pity came over him. were these children of sin and misery predestined to their end, as he to his? were they, like him, merely the puppets of a monstrous show? and yet it was not the mystery, but the comedy of suffering that struck him; its absolute uselessness, its grotesque want of meaning. how incoherent everything seemed! how lacking in all harmony! he was amazed at the discord between the shallow optimism of the day, and the real facts of existence. he was still very young. after a time he found himself in front of marylebone church. the silent roadway looked like a long riband of polished silver, flecked here and there by the dark arabesques of waving shadows. far into the distance curved the line of flickering gas-lamps, and outside a little walled-in house stood a solitary hansom, the driver asleep inside. he walked hastily in the direction of portland place, now and then looking round, as though he feared that he was being followed. at the corner of rich street stood two men, reading a small bill upon a hoarding. an odd feeling of curiosity stirred him, and he crossed over. as he came near, the word ‘murder,’ printed in black letters, met his eye. he started, and a deep flush came into his cheek. it was an advertisement offering a reward for any information leading to the arrest of a man of medium height, between thirty and forty years of age, wearing a billy-cock hat, a black coat, and check trousers, and with a scar upon his right cheek. he read it over and over again, and wondered if the wretched man would be caught, and how he had been scarred. perhaps, some day, his own name might be placarded on the walls of london. some day, perhaps, a price would be set on his head also. the thought made him sick with horror. he turned on his heel, and hurried on into the night. where he went he hardly knew. he had a dim memory of wandering through a labyrinth of sordid houses, of being lost in a giant web of sombre streets, and it was bright dawn when he found himself at last in piccadilly circus. as he strolled home towards belgrave square, he met the great waggons on their way to covent garden. the white-smocked carters, with their pleasant sunburnt faces and coarse curly hair, strode sturdily on, cracking their whips, and calling out now and then to each other; on the back of a huge grey horse, the leader of a jangling team, sat a chubby boy, with a bunch of primroses in his battered hat, keeping tight hold of the mane with his little hands, and laughing; and the great piles of vegetables looked like masses of jade against the morning sky, like masses of green jade against the pink petals of some marvellous rose. lord arthur felt curiously affected, he could not tell why. there was something in the dawn’s delicate loveliness that seemed to him inexpressibly pathetic, and he thought of all the days that break in beauty, and that set in storm. these rustics, too, with their rough, good-humoured voices, and their nonchalant ways, what a strange london they saw! a london free from the sin of night and the smoke of day, a pallid, ghost-like city, a desolate town of tombs! he wondered what they thought of it, and whether they knew anything of its splendour and its shame, of its fierce, fiery-coloured joys, and its horrible hunger, of all it makes and mars from morn to eve. probably it was to them merely a mart where they brought their fruits to sell, and where they tarried for a few hours at most, leaving the streets still silent, the houses still asleep. it gave him pleasure to watch them as they went by. rude as they were, with their heavy, hob-nailed shoes, and their awkward gait, they brought a little of a ready with them. he felt that they had lived with nature, and that she had taught them peace. he envied them all that they did not know. by the time he had reached belgrave square the sky was a faint blue, and the birds were beginning to twitter in the gardens. chapter iii when lord arthur woke it was twelve o’clock, and the midday sun was streaming through the ivory-silk curtains of his room. he got up and looked out of the window. a dim haze of heat was hanging over the great city, and the roofs of the houses were like dull silver. in the flickering green of the square below some children were flitting about like white butterflies, and the pavement was crowded with people on their way to the park. never had life seemed lovelier to him, never had the things of evil seemed more remote. then his valet brought him a cup of chocolate on a tray. after he had drunk it, he drew aside a heavy _portière_ of peach-coloured plush, and passed into the bathroom. the light stole softly from above, through thin slabs of transparent onyx, and the water in the marble tank glimmered like a moonstone. he plunged hastily in, till the cool ripples touched throat and hair, and then dipped his head right under, as though he would have wiped away the stain of some shameful memory. when he stepped out he felt almost at peace. the exquisite physical conditions of the moment had dominated him, as indeed often happens in the case of very finely-wrought natures, for the senses, like fire, can purify as well as destroy. after breakfast, he flung himself down on a divan, and lit a cigarette. on the mantel-shelf, framed in dainty old brocade, stood a large photograph of sybil merton, as he had seen her first at lady noel’s ball. the small, exquisitely-shaped head drooped slightly to one side, as though the thin, reed-like throat could hardly bear the burden of so much beauty; the lips were slightly parted, and seemed made for sweet music; and all the tender purity of girlhood looked out in wonder from the dreaming eyes. with her soft, clinging dress of _crêpe-de-chine_, and her large leaf-shaped fan, she looked like one of those delicate little figures men find in the olive-woods near tanagra; and there was a touch of greek grace in her pose and attitude. yet she was not _petite_. she was simply perfectly proportioned—a rare thing in an age when so many women are either over life-size or insignificant. now as lord arthur looked at her, he was filled with the terrible pity that is born of love. he felt that to marry her, with the doom of murder hanging over his head, would be a betrayal like that of judas, a sin worse than any the borgia had ever dreamed of. what happiness could there be for them, when at any moment he might be called upon to carry out the awful prophecy written in his hand? what manner of life would be theirs while fate still held this fearful fortune in the scales? the marriage must be postponed, at all costs. of this he was quite resolved. ardently though he loved the girl, and the mere touch of her fingers, when they sat together, made each nerve of his body thrill with exquisite joy, he recognised none the less clearly where his duty lay, and was fully conscious of the fact that he had no right to marry until he had committed the murder. this done, he could stand before the altar with sybil merton, and give his life into her hands without terror of wrongdoing. this done, he could take her to his arms, knowing that she would never have to blush for him, never have to hang her head in shame. but done it must be first; and the sooner the better for both. many men in his position would have preferred the primrose path of dalliance to the steep heights of duty; but lord arthur was too conscientious to set pleasure above principle. there was more than mere passion in his love; and sybil was to him a symbol of all that is good and noble. for a moment he had a natural repugnance against what he was asked to do, but it soon passed away. his heart told him that it was not a sin, but a sacrifice; his reason reminded him that there was no other course open. he had to choose between living for himself and living for others, and terrible though the task laid upon him undoubtedly was, yet he knew that he must not suffer selfishness to triumph over love. sooner or later we are all called upon to decide on the same issue—of us all, the same question is asked. to lord arthur it came early in life—before his nature had been spoiled by the calculating cynicism of middle-age, or his heart corroded by the shallow, fashionable egotism of our day, and he felt no hesitation about doing his duty. fortunately also, for him, he was no mere dreamer, or idle dilettante. had he been so, he would have hesitated, like hamlet, and let irresolution mar his purpose. but he was essentially practical. life to him meant action, rather than thought. he had that rarest of all things, common sense. the wild, turbid feelings of the previous night had by this time completely passed away, and it was almost with a sense of shame that he looked back upon his mad wanderings from street to street, his fierce emotional agony. the very sincerity of his sufferings made them seem unreal to him now. he wondered how he could have been so foolish as to rant and rave about the inevitable. the only question that seemed to trouble him was, whom to make away with; for he was not blind to the fact that murder, like the religions of the pagan world, requires a victim as well as a priest. not being a genius, he had no enemies, and indeed he felt that this was not the time for the gratification of any personal pique or dislike, the mission in which he was engaged being one of great and grave solemnity. he accordingly made out a list of his friends and relatives on a sheet of notepaper, and after careful consideration, decided in favour of lady clementina beauchamp, a dear old lady who lived in curzon street, and was his own second cousin by his mother’s side. he had always been very fond of lady clem, as every one called her, and as he was very wealthy himself, having come into all lord rugby’s property when he came of age, there was no possibility of his deriving any vulgar monetary advantage by her death. in fact, the more he thought over the matter, the more she seemed to him to be just the right person, and, feeling that any delay would be unfair to sybil, he determined to make his arrangements at once. the first thing to be done was, of course, to settle with the cheiromantist; so he sat down at a small sheraton writing-table that stood near the window, drew a cheque for <UNK> payable to the order of mr. septimus podgers, and, enclosing it in an envelope, told his valet to take it to west moon street. he then telephoned to the stables for his hansom, and dressed to go out. as he was leaving the room he looked back at sybil merton’s photograph, and swore that, come what may, he would never let her know what he was doing for her sake, but would keep the secret of his self-sacrifice hidden always in his heart. on his way to the buckingham, he stopped at a florist’s, and sent sybil a beautiful basket of narcissus, with lovely white petals and staring pheasants’ eyes, and on arriving at the club, went straight to the library, rang the bell, and ordered the waiter to bring him a lemon-and-soda, and a book on toxicology. he had fully decided that poison was the best means to adopt in this troublesome business. anything like personal violence was extremely distasteful to him, and besides, he was very anxious not to murder lady clementina in any way that might attract public attention, as he hated the idea of being lionised at lady windermere’s, or seeing his name figuring in the paragraphs of vulgar society—newspapers. he had also to think of sybil’s father and mother, who were rather old-fashioned people, and might possibly object to the marriage if there was anything like a scandal, though he felt certain that if he told them the whole facts of the case they would be the very first to appreciate the motives that had actuated him. he had every reason, then, to decide in favour of poison. it was safe, sure, and quiet, and did away with any necessity for painful scenes, to which, like most englishmen, he had a rooted objection. of the science of poisons, however, he knew absolutely nothing, and as the waiter seemed quite unable to find anything in the library but _ruff’s guide_ and _bailey’s magazine_, he examined the book-shelves himself, and finally came across a handsomely-bound edition of the _pharmacopoeia_, and a copy of erskine’s _toxicology_, edited by sir mathew reid, the president of the royal college of physicians, and one of the oldest members of the buckingham, having been elected in mistake for somebody else; a _contretemps_ that so enraged the committee, that when the real man came up they black-balled him unanimously. lord arthur was a good deal puzzled at the technical terms used in both books, and had begun to regret that he had not paid more attention to his classics at oxford, when in the second volume of erskine, he found a very interesting and complete account of the properties of aconitine, written in fairly clear english. it seemed to him to be exactly the poison he wanted. it was swift—indeed, almost immediate, in its effect—perfectly painless, and when taken in the form of a gelatine capsule, the mode recommended by sir mathew, not by any means unpalatable. he accordingly made a note, upon his shirt-cuff, of the amount necessary for a fatal dose, put the books back in their places, and strolled up st. james’s street, to pestle and humbey’s, the great chemists. mr. pestle, who always attended personally on the aristocracy, was a good deal surprised at the order, and in a very deferential manner murmured something about a medical certificate being necessary. however, as soon as lord arthur explained to him that it was for a large norwegian mastiff that he was obliged to get rid of, as it showed signs of incipient rabies, and had already bitten the coachman twice in the calf of the leg, he expressed himself as being perfectly satisfied, complimented lord arthur on his wonderful knowledge of toxicology, and had the prescription made up immediately. lord arthur put the capsule into a pretty little silver _bonbonnière_ that he saw in a shop window in bond street, threw away pestle and hambey’s ugly pill-box, and drove off at once to lady clementina’s. ‘well, _monsieur le mauvais sujet_,’ cried the old lady, as he entered the room, ‘why haven’t you been to see me all this time?’ ‘my dear lady clem, i never have a moment to myself,’ said lord arthur, smiling. ‘i suppose you mean that you go about all day long with miss sybil merton, buying _chiffons_ and talking nonsense? i cannot understand why people make such a fuss about being married. in my day we never dreamed of billing and cooing in public, or in private for that matter.’ ‘i assure you i have not seen sybil for twenty-four hours, lady clem. as far as i can make out, she belongs entirely to her milliners.’ ‘of course; that is the only reason you come to see an ugly old woman like myself. i wonder you men don’t take warning. _on a fait des folies pour moi_, and here i am, a poor rheumatic creature, with a false front and a bad temper. why, if it were not for dear lady jansen, who sends me all the worst french novels she can find, i don’t think i could get through the day. doctors are no use at all, except to get fees out of one. they can’t even cure my heartburn.’ ‘i have brought you a cure for that, lady clem,’ said lord arthur gravely. ‘it is a wonderful thing, invented by an american.’ ‘i don’t think i like american inventions, arthur. i am quite sure i don’t. i read some american novels lately, and they were quite nonsensical.’ ‘oh, but there is no nonsense at all about this, lady clem! i assure you it is a perfect cure. you must promise to try it’; and lord arthur brought the little box out of his pocket, and handed it to her. ‘well, the box is charming, arthur. is it really a present? that is very sweet of you. and is this the wonderful medicine? it looks like a _bonbon_. i’ll take it at once.’ ‘good heavens! lady clem,’ cried lord arthur, catching hold of her hand, ‘you mustn’t do anything of the kind. it is a homoeopathic medicine, and if you take it without having heartburn, it might do you no end of harm. wait till you have an attack, and take it then. you will be astonished at the result.’ ‘i should like to take it now,’ said lady clementina, holding up to the light the little transparent capsule, with its floating bubble of liquid aconitine. i am sure it is delicious. the fact is that, though i hate doctors, i love medicines. however, i’ll keep it till my next attack.’ ‘and when will that be?’ asked lord arthur eagerly. ‘will it be soon?’ ‘i hope not for a week. i had a very bad time yesterday morning with it. but one never knows.’ ‘you are sure to have one before the end of the month then, lady clem?’ ‘i am afraid so. but how sympathetic you are to-day, arthur! really, sybil has done you a great deal of good. and now you must run away, for i am dining with some very dull people, who won’t talk scandal, and i know that if i don’t get my sleep now i shall never be able to keep awake during dinner. good-bye, arthur, give my love to sybil, and thank you so much for the american medicine.’ ‘you won’t forget to take it, lady clem, will you?’ said lord arthur, rising from his seat. ‘of course i won’t, you silly boy. i think it is most kind of you to think of me, and i shall write and tell you if i want any more.’ lord arthur left the house in high spirits, and with a feeling of immense relief. that night he had an interview with sybil merton. he told her how he had been suddenly placed in a position of terrible difficulty, from which neither honour nor duty would allow him to recede. he told her that the marriage must be put off for the present, as until he had got rid of his fearful entanglements, he was not a free man. he implored her to trust him, and not to have any doubts about the future. everything would come right, but patience was necessary. the scene took place in the conservatory of mr. merton’s house, in park lane, where lord arthur had dined as usual. sybil had never seemed more happy, and for a moment lord arthur had been tempted to play the coward’s part, to write to lady clementina for the pill, and to let the marriage go on as if there was no such person as mr. podgers in the world. his better nature, however, soon asserted itself, and even when sybil flung herself weeping into his arms, he did not falter. the beauty that stirred his senses had touched his conscience also. he felt that to wreck so fair a life for the sake of a few months’ pleasure would be a wrong thing to do. he stayed with sybil till nearly midnight, comforting her and being comforted in turn, and early the next morning he left for venice, after writing a manly, firm letter to mr. merton about the necessary postponement of the marriage. chapter iv in venice he met his brother, lord surbiton, who happened to have come over from corfu in his yacht. the two young men spent a delightful fortnight together. in the morning they rode on the lido, or glided up and down the green canals in their long black gondola; in the afternoon they usually entertained visitors on the yacht; and in the evening they dined at florian’s, and smoked innumerable cigarettes on the piazza. yet somehow lord arthur was not happy. every day he studied the obituary column in the _times_, expecting to see a notice of lady clementina’s death, but every day he was disappointed. he began to be afraid that some accident had happened to her, and often regretted that he had prevented her taking the aconitine when she had been so anxious to try its effect. sybil’s letters, too, though full of love, and trust, and tenderness, were often very sad in their tone, and sometimes he used to think that he was parted from her for ever. after a fortnight lord surbiton got bored with venice, and determined to run down the coast to ravenna, as he heard that there was some capital cock-shooting in the pinetum. lord arthur at first refused absolutely to come, but surbiton, of whom he was extremely fond, finally persuaded him that if he stayed at danieli’s by himself he would be moped to death, and on the morning of the <UNK> they started, with a strong nor’-east wind blowing, and a rather choppy sea. the sport was excellent, and the free, open-air life brought the colour back to lord arthur’s cheek, but about the <UNK> he became anxious about lady clementina, and, in spite of surbiton’s remonstrances, came back to venice by train. as he stepped out of his gondola on to the hotel steps, the proprietor came forward to meet him with a sheaf of telegrams. lord arthur snatched them out of his hand, and tore them open. everything had been successful. lady clementina had died quite suddenly on the night of the <UNK> his first thought was for sybil, and he sent her off a telegram announcing his immediate return to london. he then ordered his valet to pack his things for the night mail, sent his gondoliers about five times their proper fare, and ran up to his sitting-room with a light step and a buoyant heart. there he found three letters waiting for him. one was from sybil herself, full of sympathy and condolence. the others were from his mother, and from lady clementina’s solicitor. it seemed that the old lady had dined with the duchess that very night, had delighted every one by her wit and _esprit_, but had gone home somewhat early, complaining of heartburn. in the morning she was found dead in her bed, having apparently suffered no pain. sir mathew reid had been sent for at once, but, of course, there was nothing to be done, and she was to be buried on the <UNK> at beauchamp chalcote. a few days before she died she had made her will, and left lord arthur her little house in curzon street, and all her furniture, personal effects, and pictures, with the exception of her collection of miniatures, which was to go to her sister, lady margaret rufford, and her amethyst necklace, which sybil merton was to have. the property was not of much value; but mr. mansfield, the solicitor, was extremely anxious for lord arthur to return at once, if possible, as there were a great many bills to be paid, and lady clementina had never kept any regular accounts. lord arthur was very much touched by lady clementina’s kind remembrance of him, and felt that mr. podgers had a great deal to answer for. his love of sybil, however, dominated every other emotion, and the consciousness that he had done his duty gave him peace and comfort. when he arrived at charing cross, he felt perfectly happy. the mertons received him very kindly. sybil made him promise that he would never again allow anything to come between them, and the marriage was fixed for the <UNK> june. life seemed to him once more bright and beautiful, and all his old gladness came back to him again. one day, however, as he was going over the house in curzon street, in company with lady clementina’s solicitor and sybil herself, burning packages of faded letters, and turning out drawers of odd rubbish, the young girl suddenly gave a little cry of delight. ‘what have you found, sybil?’ said lord arthur, looking up from his work, and smiling. ‘this lovely little silver _bonbonnière_, arthur. isn’t it quaint and dutch? do give it to me! i know amethysts won’t become me till i am over eighty.’ it was the box that had held the aconitine. lord arthur started, and a faint blush came into his cheek. he had almost entirely forgotten what he had done, and it seemed to him a curious coincidence that sybil, for whose sake he had gone through all that terrible anxiety, should have been the first to remind him of it. ‘of course you can have it, sybil. i gave it to poor lady clem myself.’ ‘oh! thank you, arthur; and may i have the _bonbon_ too? i had no notion that lady clementina liked sweets. i thought she was far too intellectual.’ lord arthur grew deadly pale, and a horrible idea crossed his mind. ‘_bonbon_, sybil? what do you mean?’ he said in a slow, hoarse voice. ‘there is one in it, that is all. it looks quite old and dusty, and i have not the slightest intention of eating it. what is the matter, arthur? how white you look!’ lord arthur rushed across the room, and seized the box. inside it was the amber-coloured capsule, with its poison-bubble. lady clementina had died a natural death after all! the shock of the discovery was almost too much for him. he flung the capsule into the fire, and sank on the sofa with a cry of despair. chapter v mr. merton was a good deal distressed at the second postponement of the marriage, and lady julia, who had already ordered her dress for the wedding, did all in her power to make sybil break off the match. dearly, however, as sybil loved her mother, she had given her whole life into lord arthur’s hands, and nothing that lady julia could say could make her waver in her faith. as for lord arthur himself, it took him days to get over his terrible disappointment, and for a time his nerves were completely unstrung. his excellent common sense, however, soon asserted itself, and his sound, practical mind did not leave him long in doubt about what to do. poison having proved a complete failure, dynamite, or some other form of explosive, was obviously the proper thing to try. he accordingly looked again over the list of his friends and relatives, and, after careful consideration, determined to blow up his uncle, the dean of chichester. the dean, who was a man of great culture and learning, was extremely fond of clocks, and had a wonderful collection of timepieces, ranging from the fifteenth century to the present day, and it seemed to lord arthur that this hobby of the good dean’s offered him an excellent opportunity for carrying out his scheme. where to procure an explosive machine was, of course, quite another matter. the london directory gave him no information on the point, and he felt that there was very little use in going to scotland yard about it, as they never seemed to know anything about the movements of the dynamite faction till after an explosion had taken place, and not much even then. suddenly he thought of his friend rouvaloff, a young russian of very revolutionary tendencies, whom he had met at lady windermere’s in the winter. count rouvaloff was supposed to be writing a life of peter the great, and to have come over to england for the purpose of studying the documents relating to that tsar’s residence in this country as a ship carpenter; but it was generally suspected that he was a nihilist agent, and there was no doubt that the russian embassy did not look with any favour upon his presence in london. lord arthur felt that he was just the man for his purpose, and drove down one morning to his lodgings in bloomsbury, to ask his advice and assistance. ‘so you are taking up politics seriously?’ said count rouvaloff, when lord arthur had told him the object of his mission; but lord arthur, who hated swagger of any kind, felt bound to admit to him that he had not the slightest interest in social questions, and simply wanted the explosive machine for a purely family matter, in which no one was concerned but himself. count rouvaloff looked at him for some moments in amazement, and then seeing that he was quite serious, wrote an address on a piece of paper, initialled it, and handed it to him across the table. ‘scotland yard would give a good deal to know this address, my dear fellow.’ ‘they shan’t have it,’ cried lord arthur, laughing; and after shaking the young russian warmly by the hand he ran downstairs, examined the paper, and told the coachman to drive to soho square. there he dismissed him, and strolled down greek street, till he came to a place called bayle’s court. he passed under the archway, and found himself in a curious _cul-de-sac_, that was apparently occupied by a french laundry, as a perfect network of clothes-lines was stretched across from house to house, and there was a flutter of white linen in the morning air. he walked right to the end, and knocked at a little green house. after some delay, during which every window in the court became a blurred mass of peering faces, the door was opened by a rather rough-looking foreigner, who asked him in very bad english what his business was. lord arthur handed him the paper count rouvaloff had given him. when the man saw it he bowed, and invited lord arthur into a very shabby front parlour on the ground floor, and in a few moments herr winckelkopf, as he was called in england, bustled into the room, with a very wine-stained napkin round his neck, and a fork in his left hand. ‘count rouvaloff has given me an introduction to you,’ said lord arthur, bowing, ‘and i am anxious to have a short interview with you on a matter of business. my name is smith, mr. robert smith, and i want you to supply me with an explosive clock.’ ‘charmed to meet you, lord arthur,’ said the genial little german, laughing. ‘don’t look so alarmed, it is my duty to know everybody, and i remember seeing you one evening at lady windermere’s. i hope her ladyship is quite well. do you mind sitting with me while i finish my breakfast? there is an excellent _pâté_, and my friends are kind enough to say that my rhine wine is better than any they get at the german embassy,’ and before lord arthur had got over his surprise at being recognised, he found himself seated in the back-room, sipping the most delicious marcobrünner out of a pale yellow hock-glass marked with the imperial monogram, and chatting in the friendliest manner possible to the famous conspirator. ‘explosive clocks,’ said herr winckelkopf, ‘are not very good things for foreign exportation, as, even if they succeed in passing the custom house, the train service is so irregular, that they usually go off before they have reached their proper destination. if, however, you want one for home use, i can supply you with an excellent article, and guarantee that you will he satisfied with the result. may i ask for whom it is intended? if it is for the police, or for any one connected with scotland yard, i am afraid i cannot do anything for you. the english detectives are really our best friends, and i have always found that by relying on their stupidity, we can do exactly what we like. i could not spare one of them.’ ‘i assure you,’ said lord arthur, ‘that it has nothing to do with the police at all. in fact, the clock is intended for the dean of chichester.’ ‘dear me! i had no idea that you felt so strongly about religion, lord arthur. few young men do nowadays.’ ‘i am afraid you overrate me, herr winckelkopf,’ said lord arthur, blushing. ‘the fact is, i really know nothing about theology.’ ‘it is a purely private matter then?’ ‘purely private.’ herr winckelkopf shrugged his shoulders, and left the room, returning in a few minutes with a round cake of dynamite about the size of a penny, and a pretty little french clock, surmounted by an ormolu figure of liberty trampling on the hydra of despotism. lord arthur’s face brightened up when he saw it. ‘that is just what i want,’ he cried, ‘and now tell me how it goes off.’ ‘ah! there is my secret,’ answered herr winckelkopf, contemplating his invention with a justifiable look of pride; ‘let me know when you wish it to explode, and i will set the machine to the moment.’ ‘well, to-day is tuesday, and if you could send it off at once—’ ‘that is impossible; i have a great deal of important work on hand for some friends of mine in moscow. still, i might send it off to-morrow.’ ‘oh, it will be quite time enough!’ said lord arthur politely, ‘if it is delivered to-morrow night or thursday morning. for the moment of the explosion, say friday at noon exactly. the dean is always at home at that hour.’ ‘friday, at noon,’ repeated herr winckelkopf, and he made a note to that effect in a large ledger that was lying on a bureau near the fireplace. ‘and now,’ said lord arthur, rising from his seat, ‘pray let me know how much i am in your debt.’ ‘it is such a small matter, lord arthur, that i do not care to make any charge. the dynamite comes to seven and sixpence, the clock will be three pounds ten, and the carriage about five shillings. i am only too pleased to oblige any friend of count rouvaloff’s.’ ‘but your trouble, herr winckelkopf?’ ‘oh, that is nothing! it is a pleasure to me. i do not work for money; i live entirely for my art.’ lord arthur laid down <UNK> <UNK> <UNK> on the table, thanked the little german for his kindness, and, having succeeded in declining an invitation to meet some anarchists at a meat-tea on the following saturday, left the house and went off to the park. for the next two days he was in a state of the greatest excitement, and on friday at twelve o’clock he drove down to the buckingham to wait for news. all the afternoon the stolid hall-porter kept posting up telegrams from various parts of the country giving the results of horse-races, the verdicts in divorce suits, the state of the weather, and the like, while the tape ticked out wearisome details about an all-night sitting in the house of commons, and a small panic on the stock exchange. at four o’clock the evening papers came in, and lord arthur disappeared into the library with the _pall mall_, the _st. james’s_, the _globe_, and the _echo_, to the immense indignation of colonel goodchild, who wanted to read the reports of a speech he had delivered that morning at the mansion house, on the subject of south african missions, and the advisability of having black bishops in every province, and for some reason or other had a strong prejudice against the _evening news_. none of the papers, however, contained even the slightest allusion to chichester, and lord arthur felt that the attempt must have failed. it was a terrible blow to him, and for a time he was quite unnerved. herr winckelkopf, whom he went to see the next day was full of elaborate apologies, and offered to supply him with another clock free of charge, or with a case of nitro-glycerine bombs at cost price. but he had lost all faith in explosives, and herr winckelkopf himself acknowledged that everything is so adulterated nowadays, that even dynamite can hardly be got in a pure condition. the little german, however, while admitting that something must have gone wrong with the machinery, was not without hope that the clock might still go off, and instanced the case of a barometer that he had once sent to the military governor at odessa, which, though timed to explode in ten days, had not done so for something like three months. it was quite true that when it did go off, it merely succeeded in blowing a housemaid to atoms, the governor having gone out of town six weeks before, but at least it showed that dynamite, as a destructive force, was, when under the control of machinery, a powerful, though a somewhat unpunctual agent. lord arthur was a little consoled by this reflection, but even here he was destined to disappointment, for two days afterwards, as he was going upstairs, the duchess called him into her boudoir, and showed him a letter she had just received from the deanery. ‘jane writes charming letters,’ said the duchess; ‘you must really read her last. it is quite as good as the novels mudie sends us.’ lord arthur seized the letter from her hand. it ran as follows:— the deanery, chichester, <UNK> _may_. my dearest aunt, thank you so much for the flannel for the dorcas society, and also for the gingham. i quite agree with you that it is nonsense their wanting to wear pretty things, but everybody is so radical and irreligious nowadays, that it is difficult to make them see that they should not try and dress like the upper classes. i am sure i don’t know what we are coming to. as papa has often said in his sermons, we live in an age of unbelief. we have had great fun over a clock that an unknown admirer sent papa last thursday. it arrived in a wooden box from london, carriage paid, and papa feels it must have been sent by some one who had read his remarkable sermon, ‘is licence liberty?’ for on the top of the clock was a figure of a woman, with what papa said was the cap of liberty on her head. i didn’t think it very becoming myself, but papa said it was historical, so i suppose it is all right. parker unpacked it, and papa put it on the mantelpiece in the library, and we were all sitting there on friday morning, when just as the clock struck twelve, we heard a whirring noise, a little puff of smoke came from the pedestal of the figure, and the goddess of liberty fell off, and broke her nose on the fender! maria was quite alarmed, but it looked so ridiculous, that james and i went off into fits of laughter, and even papa was amused. when we examined it, we found it was a sort of alarum clock, and that, if you set it to a particular hour, and put some gunpowder and a cap under a little hammer, it went off whenever you wanted. papa said it must not remain in the library, as it made a noise, so reggie carried it away to the schoolroom, and does nothing but have small explosions all day long. do you think arthur would like one for a wedding present? i suppose they are quite fashionable in london. papa says they should do a great deal of good, as they show that liberty can’t last, but must fall down. papa says liberty was invented at the time of the french revolution. how awful it seems! i have now to go to the dorcas, where i will read them your most instructive letter. how true, dear aunt, your idea is, that in their rank of life they should wear what is unbecoming. i must say it is absurd, their anxiety about dress, when there are so many more important things in this world, and in the next. i am so glad your flowered poplin turned out so well, and that your lace was not torn. i am wearing my yellow satin, that you so kindly gave me, at the bishop’s on wednesday, and think it will look all right. would you have bows or not? jennings says that every one wears bows now, and that the underskirt should be frilled. reggie has just had another explosion, and papa has ordered the clock to be sent to the stables. i don’t think papa likes it so much as he did at first, though he is very flattered at being sent such a pretty and ingenious toy. it shows that people read his sermons, and profit by them. papa sends his love, in which james, and reggie, and maria all unite, and, hoping that uncle cecil’s gout is better, believe me, dear aunt, ever your affectionate niece, jane percy. _ps._—do tell me about the bows. jennings insists they are the fashion. lord arthur looked so serious and unhappy over the letter, that the duchess went into fits of laughter. ‘my dear arthur,’ she cried, ‘i shall never show you a young lady’s letter again! but what shall i say about the clock? i think it is a capital invention, and i should like to have one myself.’ ‘i don’t think much of them,’ said lord arthur, with a sad smile, and, after kissing his mother, he left the room. when he got upstairs, he flung himself on a sofa, and his eyes filled with tears. he had done his best to commit this murder, but on both occasions he had failed, and through no fault of his own. he had tried to do his duty, but it seemed as if destiny herself had turned traitor. he was oppressed with the sense of the barrenness of good intentions, of the futility of trying to be fine. perhaps, it would be better to break off the marriage altogether. sybil would suffer, it is true, but suffering could not really mar a nature so noble as hers. as for himself, what did it matter? there is always some war in which a man can die, some cause to which a man can give his life, and as life had no pleasure for him, so death had no terror. let destiny work out his doom. he would not stir to help her. at half-past seven he dressed, and went down to the club. surbiton was there with a party of young men, and he was obliged to dine with them. their trivial conversation and idle jests did not interest him, and as soon as coffee was brought he left them, inventing some engagement in order to get away. as he was going out of the club, the hall-porter handed him a letter. it was from herr winckelkopf, asking him to call down the next evening, and look at an explosive umbrella, that went off as soon as it was opened. it was the very latest invention, and had just arrived from geneva. he tore the letter up into fragments. he had made up his mind not to try any more experiments. then he wandered down to the thames embankment, and sat for hours by the river. the moon peered through a mane of tawny clouds, as if it were a lion’s eye, and innumerable stars spangled the hollow vault, like gold dust powdered on a purple dome. now and then a barge swung out into the turbid stream, and floated away with the tide, and the railway signals changed from green to scarlet as the trains ran shrieking across the bridge. after some time, twelve o’clock boomed from the tall tower at westminster, and at each stroke of the sonorous bell the night seemed to tremble. then the railway lights went out, one solitary lamp left gleaming like a large ruby on a giant mast, and the roar of the city became fainter. at two o’clock he got up, and strolled towards blackfriars. how unreal everything looked! how like a strange dream! the houses on the other side of the river seemed built out of darkness. one would have said that silver and shadow had fashioned the world anew. the huge dome of st. paul’s loomed like a bubble through the dusky air. as he approached cleopatra’s needle he saw a man leaning over the parapet, and as he came nearer the man looked up, the gas-light falling full upon his face. it was mr. podgers, the cheiromantist! no one could mistake the fat, flabby face, the gold-rimmed spectacles, the sickly feeble smile, the sensual mouth. lord arthur stopped. a brilliant idea flashed across him, and he stole softly up behind. in a moment he had seized mr. podgers by the legs, and flung him into the thames. there was a coarse oath, a heavy splash, and all was still. lord arthur looked anxiously over, but could see nothing of the cheiromantist but a tall hat, pirouetting in an eddy of moonlit water. after a time it also sank, and no trace of mr. podgers was visible. once he thought that he caught sight of the bulky misshapen figure striking out for the staircase by the bridge, and a horrible feeling of failure came over him, but it turned out to be merely a reflection, and when the moon shone out from behind a cloud it passed away. at last he seemed to have realised the decree of destiny. he heaved a deep sigh of relief, and sybil’s name came to his lips. ‘have you dropped anything, sir?’ said a voice behind him suddenly. he turned round, and saw a policeman with a bull’s-eye lantern. ‘nothing of importance, sergeant,’ he answered, smiling, and hailing a passing hansom, he jumped in, and told the man to drive to belgrave square. for the next few days he alternated between hope and fear. there were moments when he almost expected mr. podgers to walk into the room, and yet at other times he felt that fate could not be so unjust to him. twice he went to the cheiromantist’s address in west moon street, but he could not bring himself to ring the bell. he longed for certainty, and was afraid of it. finally it came. he was sitting in the smoking-room of the club having tea, and listening rather wearily to surbiton’s account of the last comic song at the gaiety, when the waiter came in with the evening papers. he took up the _st. james’s_, and was listlessly turning over its pages, when this strange heading caught his eye: suicide of a cheiromantist. he turned pale with excitement, and began to read. the paragraph ran as follows: yesterday morning, at seven o’clock, the body of mr. septimus r. podgers, the eminent cheiromantist, was washed on shore at greenwich, just in front of the ship hotel. the unfortunate gentleman had been missing for some days, and considerable anxiety for his safety had been felt in cheiromantic circles. it is supposed that he committed suicide under the influence of a temporary mental derangement, caused by overwork, and a verdict to that effect was returned this afternoon by the coroner’s jury. mr. podgers had just completed an elaborate treatise on the subject of the human hand, that will shortly be published, when it will no doubt attract much attention. the deceased was sixty-five years of age, and does not seem to have left any relations. lord arthur rushed out of the club with the paper still in his hand, to the immense amazement of the hall-porter, who tried in vain to stop him, and drove at once to park lane. sybil saw him from the window, and something told her that he was the bearer of good news. she ran down to meet him, and, when she saw his face, she knew that all was well. ‘my dear sybil,’ cried lord arthur, ‘let us be married to-morrow!’ ‘you foolish boy! why, the cake is not even ordered!’ said sybil, laughing through her tears. chapter vi when the wedding took place, some three weeks later, st. peter’s was crowded with a perfect mob of smart people. the service was read in the most impressive manner by the dean of chichester, and everybody agreed that they had never seen a handsomer couple than the bride and bridegroom. they were more than handsome, however—they were happy. never for a single moment did lord arthur regret all that he had suffered for sybil’s sake, while she, on her side, gave him the best things a woman can give to any man—worship, tenderness, and love. for them romance was not killed by reality. they always felt young. some years afterwards, when two beautiful children had been born to them, lady windermere came down on a visit to alton priory, a lovely old place, that had been the duke’s wedding present to his son; and one afternoon as she was sitting with lady arthur under a lime-tree in the garden, watching the little boy and girl as they played up and down the rose-walk, like fitful sunbeams, she suddenly took her hostess’s hand in hers, and said, ‘are you happy, sybil?’ ‘dear lady windermere, of course i am happy. aren’t you?’ ‘i have no time to be happy, sybil. i always like the last person who is introduced to me; but, as a rule, as soon as i know people i get tired of them.’ ‘don’t your lions satisfy you, lady windermere?’ ‘oh dear, no! lions are only good for one season. as soon as their manes are cut, they are the dullest creatures going. besides, they behave very badly, if you are really nice to them. do you remember that horrid mr. podgers? he was a dreadful impostor. of course, i didn’t mind that at all, and even when he wanted to borrow money i forgave him, but i could not stand his making love to me. he has really made me hate cheiromancy. i go in for telepathy now. it is much more amusing.’ ‘you mustn’t say anything against cheiromancy here, lady windermere; it is the only subject that arthur does not like people to chaff about. i assure you he is quite serious over it.’ ‘you don’t mean to say that he believes in it, sybil?’ ‘ask him, lady windermere, here he is’; and lord arthur came up the garden with a large bunch of yellow roses in his hand, and his two children dancing round him. ‘lord arthur?’ ‘yes, lady windermere.’ ‘you don’t mean to say that you believe in cheiromancy?’ ‘of course i do,’ said the young man, smiling. ‘but why?’ ‘because i owe to it all the happiness of my life,’ he murmured, throwing himself into a wicker chair. ‘my dear lord arthur, what do you owe to it?’ ‘sybil,’ he answered, handing his wife the roses, and looking into her violet eyes. ‘what nonsense!’ cried lady windermere. ‘i never heard such nonsense in all my life.’ the canterville ghost a hylo-idealistic romance chapter i when mr. hiram b. otis, the american minister, bought canterville chase, every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing, as there was no doubt at all that the place was haunted. indeed, lord canterville himself, who was a man of the most punctilious honour, had felt it his duty to mention the fact to mr. otis when they came to discuss terms. ‘we have not cared to live in the place ourselves,’ said lord canterville, ‘since my grandaunt, the dowager duchess of bolton, was frightened into a fit, from which she never really recovered, by two skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for dinner, and i feel bound to tell you, mr. otis, that the ghost has been seen by several living members of my family, as well as by the rector of the parish, the rev. augustus dampier, who is a fellow of king’s college, cambridge. after the unfortunate accident to the duchess, none of our younger servants would stay with us, and lady canterville often got very little sleep at night, in consequence of the mysterious noises that came from the corridor and the library.’ ‘my lord,’ answered the minister, ‘i will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation. i come from a modern country, where we have everything that money can buy; and with all our spry young fellows painting the old world red, and carrying off your best actresses and prima-donnas, i reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in europe, we’d have it at home in a very short time in one of our public museums, or on the road as a show.’ ‘i fear that the ghost exists,’ said lord canterville, smiling, ‘though it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios. it has been well known for three centuries, since <UNK> in fact, and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family.’ ‘well, so does the family doctor for that matter, lord canterville. but there is no such thing, sir, as a ghost, and i guess the laws of nature are not going to be suspended for the british aristocracy.’ ‘you are certainly very natural in america,’ answered lord canterville, who did not quite understand mr. otis’s last observation, ‘and if you don’t mind a ghost in the house, it is all right. only you must remember i warned you.’ a few weeks after this, the purchase was completed, and at the close of the season the minister and his family went down to canterville chase. mrs. otis, who, as miss lucretia r. tappan, of west <UNK> street, had been a celebrated new york belle, was now a very handsome, middle-aged woman, with fine eyes, and a superb profile. many american ladies on leaving their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health, under the impression that it is a form of european refinement, but mrs. otis had never fallen into this error. she had a magnificent constitution, and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits. indeed, in many respects, she was quite english, and was an excellent example of the fact that we have really everything in common with america nowadays, except, of course, language. her eldest son, christened washington by his parents in a moment of patriotism, which he never ceased to regret, was a fair-haired, rather good-looking young man, who had qualified himself for american diplomacy by leading the german at the newport casino for three successive seasons, and even in london was well known as an excellent dancer. gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses. otherwise he was extremely sensible. miss virginia e. otis was a little girl of fifteen, lithe and lovely as a fawn, and with a fine freedom in her large blue eyes. she was a wonderful amazon, and had once raced old lord bilton on her pony twice round the park, winning by a length and a half, just in front of the achilles statue, to the huge delight of the young duke of cheshire, who proposed for her on the spot, and was sent back to eton that very night by his guardians, in floods of tears. after virginia came the twins, who were usually called ‘the stars and stripes,’ as they were always getting swished. they were delightful boys, and with the exception of the worthy minister the only true republicans of the family. as canterville chase is seven miles from ascot, the nearest railway station, mr. otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them, and they started on their drive in high spirits. it was a lovely july evening, and the air was delicate with the scent of the pine-woods. now and then they heard a wood pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice, or saw, deep in the rustling fern, the burnished breast of the pheasant. little squirrels peered at them from the beech-trees as they went by, and the rabbits scudded away through the brushwood and over the mossy knolls, with their white tails in the air. as they entered the avenue of canterville chase, however, the sky became suddenly overcast with clouds, a curious stillness seemed to hold the atmosphere, a great flight of rooks passed silently over their heads, and, before they reached the house, some big drops of rain had fallen. standing on the steps to receive them was an old woman, neatly dressed in black silk, with a white cap and apron. this was mrs. umney, the housekeeper, whom mrs. otis, at lady canterville’s earnest request, had consented to keep on in her former position. she made them each a low curtsey as they alighted, and said in a quaint, old-fashioned manner, ‘i bid you welcome to canterville chase.’ following her, they passed through the fine tudor hall into the library, a long, low room, panelled in black oak, at the end of which was a large stained-glass window. here they found tea laid out for them, and, after taking off their wraps, they sat down and began to look round, while mrs. umney waited on them. suddenly mrs. otis caught sight of a dull red stain on the floor just by the fireplace and, quite unconscious of what it really signified, said to mrs. umney, ‘i am afraid something has been spilt there.’ ‘yes, madam,’ replied the old housekeeper in a low voice, ‘blood has been spilt on that spot.’ ‘how horrid,’ cried mrs. otis; ‘i don’t at all care for blood-stains in a sitting-room. it must be removed at once.’ the old woman smiled, and answered in the same low, mysterious voice, ‘it is the blood of lady eleanore de canterville, who was murdered on that very spot by her own husband, sir simon de canterville, in <UNK> sir simon survived her nine years, and disappeared suddenly under very mysterious circumstances. his body has never been discovered, but his guilty spirit still haunts the chase. the blood-stain has been much admired by tourists and others, and cannot be removed.’ ‘that is all nonsense,’ cried washington otis; ‘pinkerton’s champion stain remover and paragon detergent will clean it up in no time,’ and before the terrified housekeeper could interfere he had fallen upon his knees, and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what looked like a black cosmetic. in a few moments no trace of the blood-stain could be seen. ‘i knew pinkerton would do it,’ he exclaimed triumphantly, as he looked round at his admiring family; but no sooner had he said these words than a terrible flash of lightning lit up the sombre room, a fearful peal of thunder made them all start to their feet, and mrs. umney fainted. ‘what a monstrous climate!’ said the american minister calmly, as he lit a long cheroot. ‘i guess the old country is so overpopulated that they have not enough decent weather for everybody. i have always been of opinion that emigration is the only thing for england.’ ‘my dear hiram,’ cried mrs. otis, ‘what can we do with a woman who faints?’ ‘charge it to her like breakages,’ answered the minister; ‘she won’t faint after that’; and in a few moments mrs. umney certainly came to. there was no doubt, however, that she was extremely upset, and she sternly warned mr. otis to beware of some trouble coming to the house. ‘i have seen things with my own eyes, sir,’ she said, ‘that would make any christian’s hair stand on end, and many and many a night i have not closed my eyes in sleep for the awful things that are done here.’ mr. otis, however, and his wife warmly assured the honest soul that they were not afraid of ghosts, and, after invoking the blessings of providence on her new master and mistress, and making arrangements for an increase of salary, the old housekeeper tottered off to her own room. chapter ii the storm raged fiercely all that night, but nothing of particular note occurred. the next morning, however, when they came down to breakfast, they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor. ‘i don’t think it can be the fault of the paragon detergent,’ said washington, ‘for i have tried it with everything. it must be the ghost.’ he accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time, but the second morning it appeared again. the third morning also it was there, though the library had been locked up at night by mr. otis himself, and the key carried upstairs. the whole family were now quite interested; mr. otis began to suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of ghosts, mrs. otis expressed her intention of joining the psychical society, and washington prepared a long letter to messrs. myers and podmore on the subject of the permanence of sanguineous stains when connected with crime. that night all doubts about the objective existence of phantasmata were removed for ever. the day had been warm and sunny; and, in the cool of the evening, the whole family went out for a drive. they did not return home till nine o’clock, when they had a light supper. the conversation in no way turned upon ghosts, so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive expectation which so often precede the presentation of psychical phenomena. the subjects discussed, as i have since learned from mr. otis, were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of cultured americans of the better class, such as the immense superiority of miss fanny davenport over sarah bernhardt as an actress; the difficulty of obtaining green corn, buckwheat cakes, and hominy, even in the best english houses; the importance of boston in the development of the world-soul; the advantages of the baggage check system in railway travelling; and the sweetness of the new york accent as compared to the london drawl. no mention at all was made of the supernatural, nor was sir simon de canterville alluded to in any way. at eleven o’clock the family retired, and by half-past all the lights were out. some time after, mr. otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor, outside his room. it sounded like the clank of metal, and seemed to be coming nearer every moment. he got up at once, struck a match, and looked at the time. it was exactly one o’clock. he was quite calm, and felt his pulse, which was not at all feverish. the strange noise still continued, and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps. he put on his slippers, took a small oblong phial out of his dressing-case, and opened the door. right in front of him he saw, in the wan moonlight, an old man of terrible aspect. his eyes were as red burning coals; long grey hair fell over his shoulders in matted coils; his garments, which were of antique cut, were soiled and ragged, and from his wrists and ankles hung heavy manacles and rusty gyves. ‘my dear sir,’ said mr. otis, ‘i really must insist on your oiling those chains, and have brought you for that purpose a small bottle of the tammany rising sun lubricator. it is said to be completely efficacious upon one application, and there are several testimonials to that effect on the wrapper from some of our most eminent native divines. i shall leave it here for you by the bedroom candles, and will be happy to supply you with more should you require it.’ with these words the united states minister laid the bottle down on a marble table, and, closing his door, retired to rest. for a moment the canterville ghost stood quite motionless in natural indignation; then, dashing the bottle violently upon the polished floor, he fled down the corridor, uttering hollow groans, and emitting a ghastly green light. just, however, as he reached the top of the great oak staircase, a door was flung open, two little white-robed figures appeared, and a large pillow whizzed past his head! there was evidently no time to be lost, so, hastily adopting the fourth dimension of space as a means of escape, he vanished through the wainscoting, and the house became quite quiet. on reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing, he leaned up against a moonbeam to recover his breath, and began to try and realise his position. never, in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three hundred years, had he been so grossly insulted. he thought of the dowager duchess, whom he had frightened into a fit as she stood before the glass in her lace and diamonds; of the four housemaids, who had gone off into hysterics when he merely grinned at them through the curtains of one of the spare bedrooms; of the rector of the parish, whose candle he had blown out as he was coming late one night from the library, and who had been under the care of sir william gull ever since, a perfect martyr to nervous disorders; and of old madame de tremouillac, who, having wakened up one morning early and seen a skeleton seated in an arm-chair by the fire reading her diary, had been confined to her bed for six weeks with an attack of brain fever, and, on her recovery, had become reconciled to the church, and broken off her connection with that notorious sceptic monsieur de voltaire. he remembered the terrible night when the wicked lord canterville was found choking in his dressing-room, with the knave of diamonds half-way down his throat, and confessed, just before he died, that he had cheated charles james fox out of <UNK> at crockford’s by means of that very card, and swore that the ghost had made him swallow it. all his great achievements came back to him again, from the butler who had shot himself in the pantry because he had seen a green hand tapping at the window pane, to the beautiful lady stutfield, who was always obliged to wear a black velvet band round her throat to hide the mark of five fingers burnt upon her white skin, and who drowned herself at last in the carp-pond at the end of the king’s walk. with the enthusiastic egotism of the true artist he went over his most celebrated performances, and smiled bitterly to himself as he recalled to mind his last appearance as ‘red ruben, or the strangled babe,’ his _début_ as ‘gaunt gibeon, the blood-sucker of bexley moor,’ and the _furore_ he had excited one lovely june evening by merely playing ninepins with his own bones upon the lawn-tennis ground. and after all this, some wretched modern americans were to come and offer him the rising sun lubricator, and throw pillows at his head! it was quite unbearable. besides, no ghosts in history had ever been treated in this manner. accordingly, he determined to have vengeance, and remained till daylight in an attitude of deep thought. chapter iii the next morning when the otis family met at breakfast, they discussed the ghost at some length. the united states minister was naturally a little annoyed to find that his present had not been accepted. ‘i have no wish,’ he said, ‘to do the ghost any personal injury, and i must say that, considering the length of time he has been in the house, i don’t think it is at all polite to throw pillows at him’—a very just remark, at which, i am sorry to say, the twins burst into shouts of laughter. ‘upon the other hand,’ he continued, ‘if he really declines to use the rising sun lubricator, we shall have to take his chains from him. it would be quite impossible to sleep, with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms.’ for the rest of the week, however, they were undisturbed, the only thing that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the blood-stain on the library floor. this certainly was very strange, as the door was always locked at night by mr. otis, and the windows kept closely barred. the chameleon-like colour, also, of the stain excited a good deal of comment. some mornings it was a dull (almost indian) red, then it would be vermilion, then a rich purple, and once when they came down for family prayers, according to the simple rites of the free american reformed episcopalian church, they found it a bright emerald-green. these kaleidoscopic changes naturally amused the party very much, and bets on the subject were freely made every evening. the only person who did not enter into the joke was little virginia, who, for some unexplained reason, was always a good deal distressed at the sight of the blood-stain, and very nearly cried the morning it was emerald-green. the second appearance of the ghost was on sunday night. shortly after they had gone to bed they were suddenly alarmed by a fearful crash in the hall. rushing downstairs, they found that a large suit of old armour had become detached from its stand, and had fallen on the stone floor, while, seated in a high-backed chair, was the canterville ghost, rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face. the twins, having brought their pea-shooters with them, at once discharged two pellets on him, with that accuracy of aim which can only be attained by long and careful practice on a writing-master, while the united states minister covered him with his revolver, and called upon him, in accordance with californian etiquette, to hold up his hands! the ghost started up with a wild shriek of rage, and swept through them like a mist, extinguishing washington otis’s candle as he passed, and so leaving them all in total darkness. on reaching the top of the staircase he recovered himself, and determined to give his celebrated peal of demoniac laughter. this he had on more than one occasion found extremely useful. it was said to have turned lord raker’s wig grey in a single night, and had certainly made three of lady canterville’s french governesses give warning before their month was up. he accordingly laughed his most horrible laugh, till the old vaulted roof rang and rang again, but hardly had the fearful echo died away when a door opened, and mrs. otis came out in a light blue dressing-gown. ‘i am afraid you are far from well,’ she said, ‘and have brought you a bottle of dr. dobell’s tincture. if it is indigestion, you will find it a most excellent remedy.’ the ghost glared at her in fury, and began at once to make preparations for turning himself into a large black dog, an accomplishment for which he was justly renowned, and to which the family doctor always attributed the permanent idiocy of lord canterville’s uncle, the hon. thomas horton. the sound of approaching footsteps, however, made him hesitate in his fell purpose, so he contented himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent, and vanished with a deep churchyard groan, just as the twins had come up to him. on reaching his room he entirely broke down, and became a prey to the most violent agitation. the vulgarity of the twins, and the gross materialism of mrs. otis, were naturally extremely annoying, but what really distressed him most was, that he had been unable to wear the suit of mail. he had hoped that even modern americans would be thrilled by the sight of a spectre in armour, if for no more sensible reason, at least out of respect for their national poet longfellow, over whose graceful and attractive poetry he himself had whiled away many a weary hour when the cantervilles were up in town. besides, it was his own suit. he had worn it with great success at the kenilworth tournament, and had been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the virgin queen herself. yet when he had put it on, he had been completely overpowered by the weight of the huge breastplate and steel casque, and had fallen heavily on the stone pavement, barking both his knees severely, and bruising the knuckles of his right hand. for some days after this he was extremely ill, and hardly stirred out of his room at all, except to keep the blood-stain in proper repair. however, by taking great care of himself, he recovered, and resolved to make a third attempt to frighten the united states minister and his family. he selected friday, the <UNK> of august, for his appearance, and spent most of that day in looking over his wardrobe, ultimately deciding in favour of a large slouched hat with a red feather, a winding-sheet frilled at the wrists and neck, and a rusty dagger. towards evening a violent storm of rain came on, and the wind was so high that all the windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled. in fact, it was just such weather as he loved. his plan of action was this. he was to make his way quietly to washington otis’s room, gibber at him from the foot of the bed, and stab himself three times in the throat to the sound of slow music. he bore washington a special grudge, being quite aware that it was he who was in the habit of removing the famous canterville blood-stain, by means of pinkerton’s paragon detergent. having reduced the reckless and foolhardy youth to a condition of abject terror, he was then to proceed to the room occupied by the united states minister and his wife, and there to place a clammy hand on mrs. otis’s forehead, while he hissed into her trembling husband’s ear the awful secrets of the charnel-house. with regard to little virginia, he had not quite made up his mind. she had never insulted him in any way, and was pretty and gentle. a few hollow groans from the wardrobe, he thought, would be more than sufficient, or, if that failed to wake her, he might grabble at the counterpane with palsy-twitching fingers. as for the twins, he was quite determined to teach them a lesson. the first thing to be done was, of course, to sit upon their chests, so as to produce the stifling sensation of nightmare. then, as their beds were quite close to each other, to stand between them in the form of a green, icy-cold corpse, till they became paralysed with fear, and finally, to throw off the winding-sheet, and crawl round the room, with white bleached bones and one rolling eye-ball, in the character of ‘dumb daniel, or the suicide’s skeleton,’ a _rôle_ in which he had on more than one occasion produced a great effect, and which he considered quite equal to his famous part of ‘martin the maniac, or the masked mystery.’ at half-past ten he heard the family going to bed. for some time he was disturbed by wild shrieks of laughter from the twins, who, with the light-hearted gaiety of schoolboys, were evidently amusing themselves before they retired to rest, but at a quarter past eleven all was still, and, as midnight sounded, he sallied forth. the owl beat against the window panes, the raven croaked from the old yew-tree, and the wind wandered moaning round the house like a lost soul; but the otis family slept unconscious of their doom, and high above the rain and storm he could hear the steady snoring of the minister for the united states. he stepped stealthily out of the wainscoting, with an evil smile on his cruel, wrinkled mouth, and the moon hid her face in a cloud as he stole past the great oriel window, where his own arms and those of his murdered wife were blazoned in azure and gold. on and on he glided, like an evil shadow, the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed. once he thought he heard something call, and stopped; but it was only the baying of a dog from the red farm, and he went on, muttering strange sixteenth-century curses, and ever and anon brandishing the rusty dagger in the midnight air. finally he reached the corner of the passage that led to luckless washington’s room. for a moment he paused there, the wind blowing his long grey locks about his head, and twisting into grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man’s shroud. then the clock struck the quarter, and he felt the time was come. he chuckled to himself, and turned the corner; but no sooner had he done so, than, with a piteous wail of terror, he fell back, and hid his blanched face in his long, bony hands. right in front of him was standing a horrible spectre, motionless as a carven image, and monstrous as a madman’s dream! its head was bald and burnished; its face round, and fat, and white; and hideous laughter seemed to have writhed its features into an eternal grin. from the eyes streamed rays of scarlet light, the mouth was a wide well of fire, and a hideous garment, like to his own, swathed with its silent snows the titan form. on its breast was a placard with strange writing in antique characters, some scroll of shame it seemed, some record of wild sins, some awful calendar of crime, and, with its right hand, it bore aloft a falchion of gleaming steel. never having seen a ghost before, he naturally was terribly frightened, and, after a second hasty glance at the awful phantom, he fled back to his room, tripping up in his long winding-sheet as he sped down the corridor, and finally dropping the rusty dagger into the minister’s jack-boots, where it was found in the morning by the butler. once in the privacy of his own apartment, he flung himself down on a small pallet-bed, and hid his face under the clothes. after a time, however, the brave old canterville spirit asserted itself, and he determined to go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight. accordingly, just as the dawn was touching the hills with silver, he returned towards the spot where he had first laid eyes on the grisly phantom, feeling that, after all, two ghosts were better than one, and that, by the aid of his new friend, he might safely grapple with the twins. on reaching the spot, however, a terrible sight met his gaze. something had evidently happened to the spectre, for the light had entirely faded from its hollow eyes, the gleaming falchion had fallen from its hand, and it was leaning up against the wall in a strained and uncomfortable attitude. he rushed forward and seized it in his arms, when, to his horror, the head slipped off and rolled on the floor, the body assumed a recumbent posture, and he found himself clasping a white dimity bed-curtain, with a sweeping-brush, a kitchen cleaver, and a hollow turnip lying at his feet! unable to understand this curious transformation, he clutched the placard with feverish haste, and there, in the grey morning light, he read these fearful words:— ye olde ghoste ye onlie true and originale spook. beware of ye imitationes. all others are counterfeite. the whole thing flashed across him. he had been tricked, foiled, and outwitted! the old canterville look came into his eyes; he ground his toothless gums together; and, raising his withered hands high above his head, swore, according to the picturesque phraseology of the antique school, that when chanticleer had sounded twice his merry horn, deeds of blood would be wrought, and murder walk abroad with silent feet. hardly had he finished this awful oath when, from the red-tiled roof of a distant homestead, a cock crew. he laughed a long, low, bitter laugh, and waited. hour after hour he waited, but the cock, for some strange reason, did not crow again. finally, at half-past seven, the arrival of the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil, and he stalked back to his room, thinking of his vain hope and baffled purpose. there he consulted several books of ancient chivalry, of which he was exceedingly fond, and found that, on every occasion on which his oath had been used, chanticleer had always crowed a second time. ‘perdition seize the naughty fowl,’ he muttered, ‘i have seen the day when, with my stout spear, i would have run him through the gorge, and made him crow for me an ’twere in death!’ he then retired to a comfortable lead coffin, and stayed there till evening. chapter iv the next day the ghost was very weak and tired. the terrible excitement of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect. his nerves were completely shattered, and he started at the slightest noise. for five days he kept his room, and at last made up his mind to give up the point of the blood-stain on the library floor. if the otis family did not want it, they clearly did not deserve it. they were evidently people on a low, material plane of existence, and quite incapable of appreciating the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena. the question of phantasmic apparitions, and the development of astral bodies, was of course quite a different matter, and really not under his control. it was his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week, and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third wednesday in every month, and he did not see how he could honourably escape from his obligations. it is quite true that his life had been very evil, but, upon the other hand, he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural. for the next three saturdays, accordingly, he traversed the corridor as usual between midnight and three o’clock, taking every possible precaution against being either heard or seen. he removed his boots, trod as lightly as possible on the old worm-eaten boards, wore a large black velvet cloak, and was careful to use the rising sun lubricator for oiling his chains. i am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection. however, one night, while the family were at dinner, he slipped into mr. otis’s bedroom and carried off the bottle. he felt a little humiliated at first, but afterwards was sensible enough to see that there was a great deal to be said for the invention, and, to a certain degree, it served his purpose. still, in spite of everything, he was not left unmolested. strings were continually being stretched across the corridor, over which he tripped in the dark, and on one occasion, while dressed for the part of ‘black isaac, or the huntsman of hogley woods,’ he met with a severe fall, through treading on a butter-slide, which the twins had constructed from the entrance of the tapestry chamber to the top of the oak staircase. this last insult so enraged him, that he resolved to make one final effort to assert his dignity and social position, and determined to visit the insolent young etonians the next night in his celebrated character of ‘reckless rupert, or the headless earl.’ he had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years; in fact, not since he had so frightened pretty lady barbara modish by means of it, that she suddenly broke off her engagement with the present lord canterville’s grandfather, and ran away to gretna green with handsome jack castleton, declaring that nothing in the world would induce her to marry into a family that allowed such a horrible phantom to walk up and down the terrace at twilight. poor jack was afterwards shot in a duel by lord canterville on wandsworth common, and lady barbara died of a broken heart at tunbridge wells before the year was out, so, in every way, it had been a great success. it was, however, an extremely difficult ‘make-up,’ if i may use such a theatrical expression in connection with one of the greatest mysteries of the supernatural, or, to employ a more scientific term, the higher-natural world, and it took him fully three hours to make his preparations. at last everything was ready, and he was very pleased with his appearance. the big leather riding-boots that went with the dress were just a little too large for him, and he could only find one of the two horse-pistols, but, on the whole, he was quite satisfied, and at a quarter past one he glided out of the wainscoting and crept down the corridor. on reaching the room occupied by the twins, which i should mention was called the blue bed chamber, on account of the colour of its hangings, he found the door just ajar. wishing to make an effective entrance, he flung it wide open, when a heavy jug of water fell right down on him, wetting him to the skin, and just missing his left shoulder by a couple of inches. at the same moment he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four-post bed. the shock to his nervous system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he could go, and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold. the only thing that at all consoled him in the whole affair was the fact that he had not brought his head with him, for, had he done so, the consequences might have been very serious. he now gave up all hope of ever frightening this rude american family, and contented himself, as a rule, with creeping about the passages in list slippers, with a thick red muffler round his throat for fear of draughts, and a small arquebuse, in case he should be attacked by the twins. the final blow he received occurred on the <UNK> of september. he had gone downstairs to the great entrance-hall, feeling sure that there, at any rate, he would be quite unmolested, and was amusing himself by making satirical remarks on the large saroni photographs of the united states minister and his wife, which had now taken the place of the canterville family pictures. he was simply but neatly clad in a long shroud, spotted with churchyard mould, had tied up his jaw with a strip of yellow linen, and carried a small lantern and a sexton’s spade. in fact, he was dressed for the character of ‘jonas the graveless, or the corpse-snatcher of chertsey barn,’ one of his most remarkable impersonations, and one which the cantervilles had every reason to remember, as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their neighbour, lord rufford. it was about a quarter past two o’clock in the morning, and, as far as he could ascertain, no one was stirring. as he was strolling towards the library, however, to see if there were any traces left of the blood-stain, suddenly there leaped out on him from a dark corner two figures, who waved their arms wildly above their heads, and shrieked out ‘boo!’ in his ear. seized with a panic, which, under the circumstances, was only natural, he rushed for the staircase, but found washington otis waiting for him there with the big garden-syringe; and being thus hemmed in by his enemies on every side, and driven almost to bay, he vanished into the great iron stove, which, fortunately for him, was not lit, and had to make his way home through the flues and chimneys, arriving at his own room in a terrible state of dirt, disorder, and despair. after this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition. the twins lay in wait for him on several occasions, and strewed the passages with nutshells every night to the great annoyance of their parents and the servants, but it was of no avail. it was quite evident that his feelings were so wounded that he would not appear. mr. otis consequently resumed his great work on the history of the democratic party, on which he had been engaged for some years; mrs. otis organised a wonderful clam-bake, which amazed the whole county; the boys took to lacrosse, euchre, poker, and other american national games; and virginia rode about the lanes on her pony, accompanied by the young duke of cheshire, who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at canterville chase. it was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away, and, in fact, mr. otis wrote a letter to that effect to lord canterville, who, in reply, expressed his great pleasure at the news, and sent his best congratulations to the minister’s worthy wife. the otises, however, were deceived, for the ghost was still in the house, and though now almost an invalid, was by no means ready to let matters rest, particularly as he heard that among the guests was the young duke of cheshire, whose grand-uncle, lord francis stilton, had once bet a hundred guineas with colonel carbury that he would play dice with the canterville ghost, and was found the next morning lying on the floor of the card-room in such a helpless paralytic state, that though he lived on to a great age, he was never able to say anything again but ‘double sixes.’ the story was well known at the time, though, of course, out of respect to the feelings of the two noble families, every attempt was made to hush it up; and a full account of all the circumstances connected with it will be found in the third volume of lord tattle’s _recollections of the prince regent and his friends_. the ghost, then, was naturally very anxious to show that he had not lost his influence over the stiltons, with whom, indeed, he was distantly connected, his own first cousin having been married _en secondes noces_ to the sieur de bulkeley, from whom, as every one knows, the dukes of cheshire are lineally descended. accordingly, he made arrangements for appearing to virginia’s little lover in his celebrated impersonation of ‘the vampire monk, or, the bloodless benedictine,’ a performance so horrible that when old lady startup saw it, which she did on one fatal new year’s eve, in the year <UNK> she went off into the most piercing shrieks, which culminated in violent apoplexy, and died in three days, after disinheriting the cantervilles, who were her nearest relations, and leaving all her money to her london apothecary. at the last moment, however, his terror of the twins prevented his leaving his room, and the little duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the royal bedchamber, and dreamed of virginia. chapter v a few days after this, virginia and her curly-haired cavalier went out riding on brockley meadows, where she tore her habit so badly in getting through a hedge, that, on her return home, she made up her mind to go up by the back staircase so as not to be seen. as she was running past the tapestry chamber, the door of which happened to be open, she fancied she saw some one inside, and thinking it was her mother’s maid, who sometimes used to bring her work there, looked in to ask her to mend her habit. to her immense surprise, however, it was the canterville ghost himself! he was sitting by the window, watching the ruined gold of the yellowing trees fly through the air, and the red leaves dancing madly down the long avenue. his head was leaning on his hand, and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression. indeed, so forlorn, and so much out of repair did he look, that little virginia, whose first idea had been to run away and lock herself in her room, was filled with pity, and determined to try and comfort him. so light was her footfall, and so deep his melancholy, that he was not aware of her presence till she spoke to him. ‘i am so sorry for you,’ she said, ‘but my brothers are going back to eton to-morrow, and then, if you behave yourself, no one will annoy you.’ ‘it is absurd asking me to behave myself,’ he answered, looking round in astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him, ‘quite absurd. i must rattle my chains, and groan through keyholes, and walk about at night, if that is what you mean. it is my only reason for existing.’ ‘it is no reason at all for existing, and you know you have been very wicked. mrs. umney told us, the first day we arrived here, that you had killed your wife.’ ‘well, i quite admit it,’ said the ghost petulantly, ‘but it was a purely family matter, and concerned no one else.’ ‘it is very wrong to kill any one,’ said virginia, who at times had a sweet puritan gravity, caught from some old new england ancestor. ‘oh, i hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics! my wife was very plain, never had my ruffs properly starched, and knew nothing about cookery. why, there was a buck i had shot in hogley woods, a magnificent pricket, and do you know how she had it sent up to table? however, it is no matter now, for it is all over, and i don’t think it was very nice of her brothers to starve me to death, though i did kill her.’ ‘starve you to death? oh, mr. ghost, i mean sir simon, are you hungry? i have a sandwich in my case. would you like it?’ ‘no, thank you, i never eat anything now; but it is very kind of you, all the same, and you are much nicer than the rest of your horrid, rude, vulgar, dishonest family.’ ‘stop!’ cried virginia, stamping her foot, ‘it is you who are rude, and horrid, and vulgar, and as for dishonesty, you know you stole the paints out of my box to try and furbish up that ridiculous blood-stain in the library. first you took all my reds, including the vermilion, and i couldn’t do any more sunsets, then you took the emerald-green and the chrome-yellow, and finally i had nothing left but indigo and chinese white, and could only do moonlight scenes, which are always depressing to look at, and not at all easy to paint. i never told on you, though i was very much annoyed, and it was most ridiculous, the whole thing; for who ever heard of emerald-green blood?’ ‘well, really,’ said the ghost, rather meekly, ‘what was i to do? it is a very difficult thing to get real blood nowadays, and, as your brother began it all with his paragon detergent, i certainly saw no reason why i should not have your paints. as for colour, that is always a matter of taste: the cantervilles have blue blood, for instance, the very bluest in england; but i know you americans don’t care for things of this kind.’ ‘you know nothing about it, and the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind. my father will be only too happy to give you a free passage, and though there is a heavy duty on spirits of every kind, there will be no difficulty about the custom house, as the officers are all democrats. once in new york, you are sure to be a great success. i know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather, and much more than that to have a family ghost.’ ‘i don’t think i should like america.’ ‘i suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities,’ said virginia satirically. ‘no ruins! no curiosities!’ answered the ghost; ‘you have your navy and your manners.’ ‘good evening; i will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week’s holiday.’ ‘please don’t go, miss virginia,’ he cried; ‘i am so lonely and so unhappy, and i really don’t know what to do. i want to go to sleep and i cannot.’ ‘that’s quite absurd! you have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle. it is very difficult sometimes to keep awake, especially at church, but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping. why, even babies know how to do that, and they are not very clever.’ ‘i have not slept for three hundred years,’ he said sadly, and virginia’s beautiful blue eyes opened in wonder; ‘for three hundred years i have not slept, and i am so tired.’ virginia grew quite grave, and her little lips trembled like rose-leaves. she came towards him, and kneeling down at his side, looked up into his old withered face. ‘poor, poor ghost,’ she murmured; ‘have you no place where you can sleep?’ ‘far away beyond the pine-woods,’ he answered, in a low dreamy voice, ‘there is a little garden. there the grass grows long and deep, there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower, there the nightingale sings all night long. all night long he sings, and the cold, crystal moon looks down, and the yew-tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers.’ virginia’s eyes grew dim with tears, and she hid her face in her hands. ‘you mean the garden of death,’ she whispered. ‘yes, death. death must be so beautiful. to lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one’s head, and listen to silence. to have no yesterday, and no to-morrow. to forget time, to forgive life, to be at peace. you can help me. you can open for me the portals of death’s house, for love is always with you, and love is stronger than death is.’ virginia trembled, a cold shudder ran through her, and for a few moments there was silence. she felt as if she was in a terrible dream. then the ghost spoke again, and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind. ‘have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window?’ ‘oh, often,’ cried the little girl, looking up; ‘i know it quite well. it is painted in curious black letters, and it is difficult to read. there are only six lines: when a golden girl can win prayer from out the lips of sin, when the barren almond bears, and a little child gives away its tears, then shall all the house be still and peace come to canterville. but i don’t know what they mean.’ ‘they mean,’ he said sadly, ‘that you must weep for me for my sins, because i have no tears, and pray with me for my soul, because i have no faith, and then, if you have always been sweet, and good, and gentle, the angel of death will have mercy on me. you will see fearful shapes in darkness, and wicked voices will whisper in your ear, but they will not harm you, for against the purity of a little child the powers of hell cannot prevail.’ virginia made no answer, and the ghost wrung his hands in wild despair as he looked down at her bowed golden head. suddenly she stood up, very pale, and with a strange light in her eyes. ‘i am not afraid,’ she said firmly, ‘and i will ask the angel to have mercy on you.’ he rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy, and taking her hand bent over it with old-fashioned grace and kissed it. his fingers were as cold as ice, and his lips burned like fire, but virginia did not falter, as he led her across the dusky room. on the faded green tapestry were broidered little huntsmen. they blew their tasselled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go back. ‘go back! little virginia,’ they cried, ‘go back!’ but the ghost clutched her hand more tightly, and she shut her eyes against them. horrible animals with lizard tails, and goggle eyes, blinked at her from the carven chimney-piece, and murmured ‘beware! little virginia, beware! we may never see you again,’ but the ghost glided on more swiftly, and virginia did not listen. when they reached the end of the room he stopped, and muttered some words she could not understand. she opened her eyes, and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist, and a great black cavern in front of her. a bitter cold wind swept round them, and she felt something pulling at her dress. ‘quick, quick,’ cried the ghost, ‘or it will be too late,’ and, in a moment, the wainscoting had closed behind them, and the tapestry chamber was empty. chapter vi about ten minutes later, the bell rang for tea, and, as virginia did not come down, mrs. otis sent up one of the footmen to tell her. after a little time he returned and said that he could not find miss virginia anywhere. as she was in the habit of going out to the garden every evening to get flowers for the dinner-table, mrs. otis was not at all alarmed at first, but when six o’clock struck, and virginia did not appear, she became really agitated, and sent the boys out to look for her, while she herself and mr. otis searched every room in the house. at half-past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere. they were all now in the greatest state of excitement, and did not know what to do, when mr. otis suddenly remembered that, some few days before, he had given a band of gypsies permission to camp in the park. he accordingly at once set off for blackfell hollow, where he knew they were, accompanied by his eldest son and two of the farm-servants. the little duke of cheshire, who was perfectly frantic with anxiety, begged hard to be allowed to go too, but mr. otis would not allow him, as he was afraid there might be a scuffle. on arriving at the spot, however, he found that the gypsies had gone, and it was evident that their departure had been rather sudden, as the fire was still burning, and some plates were lying on the grass. having sent off washington and the two men to scour the district, he ran home, and despatched telegrams to all the police inspectors in the county, telling them to look out for a little girl who had been kidnapped by tramps or gypsies. he then ordered his horse to be brought round, and, after insisting on his wife and the three boys sitting down to dinner, rode off down the ascot road with a groom. he had hardly, however, gone a couple of miles when he heard somebody galloping after him, and, looking round, saw the little duke coming up on his pony, with his face very flushed and no hat. ‘i’m awfully sorry, mr. otis,’ gasped out the boy, ‘but i can’t eat any dinner as long as virginia is lost. please, don’t be angry with me; if you had let us be engaged last year, there would never have been all this trouble. you won’t send me back, will you? i can’t go! i won’t go!’ the minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace, and was a good deal touched at his devotion to virginia, so leaning down from his horse, he patted him kindly on the shoulders, and said, ‘well, cecil, if you won’t go back i suppose you must come with me, but i must get you a hat at ascot.’ ‘oh, bother my hat! i want virginia!’ cried the little duke, laughing, and they galloped on to the railway station. there mr. otis inquired of the station-master if any one answering the description of virginia had been seen on the platform, but could get no news of her. the station-master, however, wired up and down the line, and assured him that a strict watch would be kept for her, and, after having bought a hat for the little duke from a linen-draper, who was just putting up his shutters, mr. otis rode off to bexley, a village about four miles away, which he was told was a well-known haunt of the gypsies, as there was a large common next to it. here they roused up the rural policeman, but could get no information from him, and, after riding all over the common, they turned their horses’ heads homewards, and reached the chase about eleven o’clock, dead-tired and almost heart-broken. they found washington and the twins waiting for them at the gate-house with lanterns, as the avenue was very dark. not the slightest trace of virginia had been discovered. the gypsies had been caught on brockley meadows, but she was not with them, and they had explained their sudden departure by saying that they had mistaken the date of chorton fair, and had gone off in a hurry for fear they might be late. indeed, they had been quite distressed at hearing of virginia’s disappearance, as they were very grateful to mr. otis for having allowed them to camp in his park, and four of their number had stayed behind to help in the search. the carp-pond had been dragged, and the whole chase thoroughly gone over, but without any result. it was evident that, for that night at any rate, virginia was lost to them; and it was in a state of the deepest depression that mr. otis and the boys walked up to the house, the groom following behind with the two horses and the pony. in the hall they found a group of frightened servants, and lying on a sofa in the library was poor mrs. otis, almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety, and having her forehead bathed with eau-de-cologne by the old housekeeper. mr. otis at once insisted on her having something to eat, and ordered up supper for the whole party. it was a melancholy meal, as hardly any one spoke, and even the twins were awestruck and subdued, as they were very fond of their sister. when they had finished, mr. otis, in spite of the entreaties of the little duke, ordered them all to bed, saying that nothing more could be done that night, and that he would telegraph in the morning to scotland yard for some detectives to be sent down immediately. just as they were passing out of the dining-room, midnight began to boom from the clock tower, and when the last stroke sounded they heard a crash and a sudden shrill cry; a dreadful peal of thunder shook the house, a strain of unearthly music floated through the air, a panel at the top of the staircase flew back with a loud noise, and out on the landing, looking very pale and white, with a little casket in her hand, stepped virginia. in a moment they had all rushed up to her. mrs. otis clasped her passionately in her arms, the duke smothered her with violent kisses, and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group. ‘good heavens! child, where have you been?’ said mr. otis, rather angrily, thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them. ‘cecil and i have been riding all over the country looking for you, and your mother has been frightened to death. you must never play these practical jokes any more.’ ‘except on the ghost! except on the ghost!’ shrieked the twins, as they capered about. ‘my own darling, thank god you are found; you must never leave my side again,’ murmured mrs. otis, as she kissed the trembling child, and smoothed the tangled gold of her hair. ‘papa,’ said virginia quietly, ‘i have been with the ghost. he is dead, and you must come and see him. he had been very wicked, but he was really sorry for all that he had done, and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died.’ the whole family gazed at her in mute amazement, but she was quite grave and serious; and, turning round, she led them through the opening in the wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor, washington following with a lighted candle, which he had caught up from the table. finally, they came to a great oak door, studded with rusty nails. when virginia touched it, it swung back on its heavy hinges, and they found themselves in a little low room, with a vaulted ceiling, and one tiny grated window. imbedded in the wall was a huge iron ring, and chained to it was a gaunt skeleton, that was stretched out at full length on the stone floor, and seemed to be trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers an old-fashioned trencher and ewer, that were placed just out of its reach. the jug had evidently been once filled with water, as it was covered inside with green mould. there was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust. virginia knelt down beside the skeleton, and, folding her little hands together, began to pray silently, while the rest of the party looked on in wonder at the terrible tragedy whose secret was now disclosed to them. ‘hallo!’ suddenly exclaimed one of the twins, who had been looking out of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated. ‘hallo! the old withered almond-tree has blossomed. i can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight.’ ‘god has forgiven him,’ said virginia gravely, as she rose to her feet, and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face. ‘what an angel you are!’ cried the young duke, and he put his arm round her neck and kissed her. chapter vii four days after these curious incidents a funeral started from canterville chase at about eleven o’clock at night. the hearse was drawn by eight black horses, each of which carried on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrich-plumes, and the leaden coffin was covered by a rich purple pall, on which was embroidered in gold the canterville coat-of-arms. by the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches, and the whole procession was wonderfully impressive. lord canterville was the chief mourner, having come up specially from wales to attend the funeral, and sat in the first carriage along with little virginia. then came the united states minister and his wife, then washington and the three boys, and in the last carriage was mrs. umney. it was generally felt that, as she had been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life, she had a right to see the last of him. a deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard, just under the old yew-tree, and the service was read in the most impressive manner by the rev. augustus dampier. when the ceremony was over, the servants, according to an old custom observed in the canterville family, extinguished their torches, and, as the coffin was being lowered into the grave, virginia stepped forward and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almond-blossoms. as she did so, the moon came out from behind a cloud, and flooded with its silent silver the little churchyard, and from a distant copse a nightingale began to sing. she thought of the ghost’s description of the garden of death, her eyes became dim with tears, and she hardly spoke a word during the drive home. the next morning, before lord canterville went up to town, mr. otis had an interview with him on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to virginia. they were perfectly magnificent, especially a certain ruby necklace with old venetian setting, which was really a superb specimen of sixteenth-century work, and their value was so great that mr. otis felt considerable scruples about allowing his daughter to accept them. ‘my lord,’ he said, ‘i know that in this country mortmain is held to apply to trinkets as well as to land, and it is quite clear to me that these jewels are, or should be, heirlooms in your family. i must beg you, accordingly, to take them to london with you, and to regard them simply as a portion of your property which has been restored to you under certain strange conditions. as for my daughter, she is merely a child, and has as yet, i am glad to say, but little interest in such appurtenances of idle luxury. i am also informed by mrs. otis, who, i may say, is no mean authority upon art—having had the privilege of spending several winters in boston when she was a girl—that these gems are of great monetary worth, and if offered for sale would fetch a tall price. under these circumstances, lord canterville, i feel sure that you will recognise how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain in the possession of any member of my family; and, indeed, all such vain gauds and toys, however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the british aristocracy, would be completely out of place among those who have been brought up on the severe, and i believe immortal, principles of republican simplicity. perhaps i should mention that virginia is very anxious that you should allow her to retain the box as a memento of your unfortunate but misguided ancestor. as it is extremely old, and consequently a good deal out of repair, you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request. for my own part, i confess i am a good deal surprised to find a child of mine expressing sympathy with mediævalism in any form, and can only account for it by the fact that virginia was born in one of your london suburbs shortly after mrs. otis had returned from a trip to athens.’ lord canterville listened very gravely to the worthy minister’s speech, pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile, and when mr. otis had ended, he shook him cordially by the hand, and said, ‘my dear sir, your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor, sir simon, a very important service, and i and my family are much indebted to her for her marvellous courage and pluck. the jewels are clearly hers, and, egad, i believe that if i were heartless enough to take them from her, the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave in a fortnight, leading me the devil of a life. as for their being heirlooms, nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or legal document, and the existence of these jewels has been quite unknown. i assure you i have no more claim on them than your butler, and when miss virginia grows up i daresay she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear. besides, you forget, mr. otis, that you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation, and anything that belonged to the ghost passed at once into your possession, as, whatever activity sir simon may have shown in the corridor at night, in point of law he was really dead, and you acquired his property by purchase.’ mr. otis was a good deal distressed at lord canterville’s refusal, and begged him to reconsider his decision, but the good-natured peer was quite firm, and finally induced the minister to allow his daughter to retain the present the ghost had given her, and when, in the spring of <UNK> the young duchess of cheshire was presented at the queen’s first drawing-room on the occasion of her marriage, her jewels were the universal theme of admiration. for virginia received the coronet, which is the reward of all good little american girls, and was married to her boy-lover as soon as he came of age. they were both so charming, and they loved each other so much, that every one was delighted at the match, except the old marchioness of dumbleton, who had tried to catch the duke for one of her seven unmarried daughters, and had given no less than three expensive dinner-parties for that purpose, and, strange to say, mr. otis himself. mr. otis was extremely fond of the young duke personally, but, theoretically, he objected to titles, and, to use his own words, ‘was not without apprehension lest, amid the enervating influences of a pleasure-loving aristocracy, the true principles of republican simplicity should be forgotten.’ his objections, however, were completely overruled, and i believe that when he walked up the aisle of st. george’s, hanover square, with his daughter leaning on his arm, there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of england. the duke and duchess, after the honeymoon was over, went down to canterville chase, and on the day after their arrival they walked over in the afternoon to the lonely churchyard by the pine-woods. there had been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on sir simon’s tombstone, but finally it had been decided to engrave on it simply the initials of the old gentleman’s name, and the verse from the library window. the duchess had brought with her some lovely roses, which she strewed upon the grave, and after they had stood by it for some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey. there the duchess sat down on a fallen pillar, while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes. suddenly he threw his cigarette away, took hold of her hand, and said to her, ‘virginia, a wife should have no secrets from her husband.’ ‘dear cecil! i have no secrets from you.’ ‘yes, you have,’ he answered, smiling, ‘you have never told me what happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost.’ ‘i have never told any one, cecil,’ said virginia gravely. ‘i know that, but you might tell me.’ ‘please don’t ask me, cecil, i cannot tell you. poor sir simon! i owe him a great deal. yes, don’t laugh, cecil, i really do. he made me see what life is, and what death signifies, and why love is stronger than both.’ the duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly. ‘you can have your secret as long as i have your heart,’ he murmured. ‘you have always had that, cecil.’ ‘and you will tell our children some day, won’t you?’ virginia blushed. the sphinx without a secret an etching one afternoon i was sitting outside the café de la paix, watching the splendour and shabbiness of parisian life, and wondering over my vermouth at the strange panorama of pride and poverty that was passing before me, when i heard some one call my name. i turned round, and saw lord murchison. we had not met since we had been at college together, nearly ten years before, so i was delighted to come across him again, and we shook hands warmly. at oxford we had been great friends. i had liked him immensely, he was so handsome, so high-spirited, and so honourable. we used to say of him that he would be the best of fellows, if he did not always speak the truth, but i think we really admired him all the more for his frankness. i found him a good deal changed. he looked anxious and puzzled, and seemed to be in doubt about something. i felt it could not be modern scepticism, for murchison was the stoutest of tories, and believed in the pentateuch as firmly as he believed in the house of peers; so i concluded that it was a woman, and asked him if he was married yet. ‘i don’t understand women well enough,’ he answered. ‘my dear gerald,’ i said, ‘women are meant to be loved, not to be understood.’ ‘i cannot love where i cannot trust,’ he replied. ‘i believe you have a mystery in your life, gerald,’ i exclaimed; ‘tell me about it.’ ‘let us go for a drive,’ he answered, ‘it is too crowded here. no, not a yellow carriage, any other colour—there, that dark green one will do’; and in a few moments we were trotting down the boulevard in the direction of the madeleine. ‘where shall we go to?’ i said. ‘oh, anywhere you like!’ he answered—‘to the restaurant in the bois; we will dine there, and you shall tell me all about yourself.’ ‘i want to hear about you first,’ i said. ‘tell me your mystery.’ he took from his pocket a little silver-clasped morocco case, and handed it to me. i opened it. inside there was the photograph of a woman. she was tall and slight, and strangely picturesque with her large vague eyes and loosened hair. she looked like a _clairvoyante_, and was wrapped in rich furs. ‘what do you think of that face?’ he said; ‘is it truthful?’ i examined it carefully. it seemed to me the face of some one who had a secret, but whether that secret was good or evil i could not say. its beauty was a beauty moulded out of many mysteries—the beauty, in fact, which is psychological, not plastic—and the faint smile that just played across the lips was far too subtle to be really sweet. ‘well,’ he cried impatiently, ‘what do you say?’ ‘she is the gioconda in sables,’ i answered. ‘let me know all about her.’ ‘not now,’ he said; ‘after dinner,’ and began to talk of other things. when the waiter brought us our coffee and cigarettes i reminded gerald of his promise. he rose from his seat, walked two or three times up and down the room, and, sinking into an armchair, told me the following story:— ‘one evening,’ he said, ‘i was walking down bond street about five o’clock. there was a terrific crush of carriages, and the traffic was almost stopped. close to the pavement was standing a little yellow brougham, which, for some reason or other, attracted my attention. as i passed by there looked out from it the face i showed you this afternoon. it fascinated me immediately. all that night i kept thinking of it, and all the next day. i wandered up and down that wretched row, peering into every carriage, and waiting for the yellow brougham; but i could not find _ma belle inconnue_, and at last i began to think she was merely a dream. about a week afterwards i was dining with madame de rastail. dinner was for eight o’clock; but at half-past eight we were still waiting in the drawing-room. finally the servant threw open the door, and announced lady alroy. it was the woman i had been looking for. she came in very slowly, looking like a moonbeam in grey lace, and, to my intense delight, i was asked to take her in to dinner. after we had sat down, i remarked quite innocently, “i think i caught sight of you in bond street some time ago, lady alroy.” she grew very pale, and said to me in a low voice, “pray do not talk so loud; you may be overheard.” i felt miserable at having made such a bad beginning, and plunged recklessly into the subject of the french plays. she spoke very little, always in the same low musical voice, and seemed as if she was afraid of some one listening. i fell passionately, stupidly in love, and the indefinable atmosphere of mystery that surrounded her excited my most ardent curiosity. when she was going away, which she did very soon after dinner, i asked her if i might call and see her. she hesitated for a moment, glanced round to see if any one was near us, and then said, “yes; to-morrow at a quarter to five.” i begged madame de rastail to tell me about her; but all that i could learn was that she was a widow with a beautiful house in park lane, and as some scientific bore began a dissertation on widows, as exemplifying the survival of the matrimonially fittest, i left and went home. ‘the next day i arrived at park lane punctual to the moment, but was told by the butler that lady alroy had just gone out. i went down to the club quite unhappy and very much puzzled, and after long consideration wrote her a letter, asking if i might be allowed to try my chance some other afternoon. i had no answer for several days, but at last i got a little note saying she would be at home on sunday at four and with this extraordinary postscript: “please do not write to me here again; i will explain when i see you.” on sunday she received me, and was perfectly charming; but when i was going away she begged of me, if i ever had occasion to write to her again, to address my letter to “mrs. knox, care of whittaker’s library, green street.” “there are reasons,” she said, “why i cannot receive letters in my own house.” ‘all through the season i saw a great deal of her, and the atmosphere of mystery never left her. sometimes i thought that she was in the power of some man, but she looked so unapproachable, that i could not believe it. it was really very difficult for me to come to any conclusion, for she was like one of those strange crystals that one sees in museums, which are at one moment clear, and at another clouded. at last i determined to ask her to be my wife: i was sick and tired of the incessant secrecy that she imposed on all my visits, and on the few letters i sent her. i wrote to her at the library to ask her if she could see me the following monday at six. she answered yes, and i was in the seventh heaven of delight. i was infatuated with her: in spite of the mystery, i thought then—in consequence of it, i see now. no; it was the woman herself i loved. the mystery troubled me, maddened me. why did chance put me in its track?’ ‘you discovered it, then?’ i cried. ‘i fear so,’ he answered. ‘you can judge for yourself.’ ‘when monday came round i went to lunch with my uncle, and about four o’clock found myself in the marylebone road. my uncle, you know, lives in regent’s park. i wanted to get to piccadilly, and took a short cut through a lot of shabby little streets. suddenly i saw in front of me lady alroy, deeply veiled and walking very fast. on coming to the last house in the street, she went up the steps, took out a latch-key, and let herself in. “here is the mystery,” i said to myself; and i hurried on and examined the house. it seemed a sort of place for letting lodgings. on the doorstep lay her handkerchief, which she had dropped. i picked it up and put it in my pocket. then i began to consider what i should do. i came to the conclusion that i had no right to spy on her, and i drove down to the club. at six i called to see her. she was lying on a sofa, in a tea-gown of silver tissue looped up by some strange moonstones that she always wore. she was looking quite lovely. “i am so glad to see you,” she said; “i have not been out all day.” i stared at her in amazement, and pulling the handkerchief out of my pocket, handed it to her. “you dropped this in cumnor street this afternoon, lady alroy,” i said very calmly. she looked at me in terror but made no attempt to take the handkerchief. “what were you doing there?” i asked. “what right have you to question me?” she answered. “the right of a man who loves you,” i replied; “i came here to ask you to be my wife.” she hid her face in her hands, and burst into floods of tears. “you must tell me,” i continued. she stood up, and, looking me straight in the face, said, “lord murchison, there is nothing to tell you.”—“you went to meet some one,” i cried; “this is your mystery.” she grew dreadfully white, and said, “i went to meet no one.”—“can’t you tell the truth?” i exclaimed. “i have told it,” she replied. i was mad, frantic; i don’t know what i said, but i said terrible things to her. finally i rushed out of the house. she wrote me a letter the next day; i sent it back unopened, and started for norway with alan colville. after a month i came back, and the first thing i saw in the _morning post_ was the death of lady alroy. she had caught a chill at the opera, and had died in five days of congestion of the lungs. i shut myself up and saw no one. i had loved her so much, i had loved her so madly. good god! how i had loved that woman!’ ‘you went to the street, to the house in it?’ i said. ‘yes,’ he answered. ‘one day i went to cumnor street. i could not help it; i was tortured with doubt. i knocked at the door, and a respectable-looking woman opened it to me. i asked her if she had any rooms to let. “well, sir,” she replied, “the drawing-rooms are supposed to be let; but i have not seen the lady for three months, and as rent is owing on them, you can have them.”—“is this the lady?” i said, showing the photograph. “that’s her, sure enough,” she exclaimed; “and when is she coming back, sir?”—“the lady is dead,” i replied. “oh sir, i hope not!” said the woman; “she was my best lodger. she paid me three guineas a week merely to sit in my drawing-rooms now and then.” “she met some one here?” i said; but the woman assured me that it was not so, that she always came alone, and saw no one. “what on earth did she do here?” i cried. “she simply sat in the drawing-room, sir, reading books, and sometimes had tea,” the woman answered. i did not know what to say, so i gave her a sovereign and went away. now, what do you think it all meant? you don’t believe the woman was telling the truth?’ ‘i do.’ ‘then why did lady alroy go there?’ ‘my dear gerald,’ i answered, ‘lady alroy was simply a woman with a mania for mystery. she took these rooms for the pleasure of going there with her veil down, and imagining she was a heroine. she had a passion for secrecy, but she herself was merely a sphinx without a secret.’ ‘do you really think so?’ ‘i am sure of it,’ i replied. he took out the morocco case, opened it, and looked at the photograph. ‘i wonder?’ he said at last. the model millionaire a note of admiration unless one is wealthy there is no use in being a charming fellow. romance is the privilege of the rich, not the profession of the unemployed. the poor should be practical and prosaic. it is better to have a permanent income than to be fascinating. these are the great truths of modern life which hughie erskine never realised. poor hughie! intellectually, we must admit, he was not of much importance. he never said a brilliant or even an ill-natured thing in his life. but then he was wonderfully good-looking, with his crisp brown hair, his clear-cut profile, and his grey eyes. he was as popular with men as he was with women and he had every accomplishment except that of making money. his father had bequeathed him his cavalry sword and a _history of the peninsular war_ in fifteen volumes. hughie hung the first over his looking-glass, put the second on a shelf between _ruff’s guide_ and _bailey’s magazine_, and lived on two hundred a year that an old aunt allowed him. he had tried everything. he had gone on the stock exchange for six months; but what was a butterfly to do among bulls and bears? he had been a tea-merchant for a little longer, but had soon tired of pekoe and souchong. then he had tried selling dry sherry. that did not answer; the sherry was a little too dry. ultimately he became nothing, a delightful, ineffectual young man with a perfect profile and no profession. to make matters worse, he was in love. the girl he loved was laura merton, the daughter of a retired colonel who had lost his temper and his digestion in india, and had never found either of them again. laura adored him, and he was ready to kiss her shoe-strings. they were the handsomest couple in london, and had not a penny-piece between them. the colonel was very fond of hughie, but would not hear of any engagement. ‘come to me, my boy, when you have got ten thousand pounds of your own, and we will see about it,’ he used to say; and hughie looked very glum in those days, and had to go to laura for consolation. one morning, as he was on his way to holland park, where the mertons lived, he dropped in to see a great friend of his, alan trevor. trevor was a painter. indeed, few people escape that nowadays. but he was also an artist, and artists are rather rare. personally he was a strange rough fellow, with a freckled face and a red ragged beard. however, when he took up the brush he was a real master, and his pictures were eagerly sought after. he had been very much attracted by hughie at first, it must be acknowledged, entirely on account of his personal charm. ‘the only people a painter should know,’ he used to say, ‘are people who are _bête_ and beautiful, people who are an artistic pleasure to look at and an intellectual repose to talk to. men who are dandies and women who are darlings rule the world, at least they should do so.’ however, after he got to know hughie better, he liked him quite as much for his bright, buoyant spirits and his generous, reckless nature, and had given him the permanent _entrée_ to his studio. when hughie came in he found trevor putting the finishing touches to a wonderful life-size picture of a beggar-man. the beggar himself was standing on a raised platform in a corner of the studio. he was a wizened old man, with a face like wrinkled parchment, and a most piteous expression. over his shoulders was flung a coarse brown cloak, all tears and tatters; his thick boots were patched and cobbled, and with one hand he leant on a rough stick, while with the other he held out his battered hat for alms. ‘what an amazing model!’ whispered hughie, as he shook hands with his friend. ‘an amazing model?’ shouted trevor at the top of his voice; ‘i should think so! such beggars as he are not to be met with every day. a _trouvaille_, _mon cher_; a living velasquez! my stars! what an etching rembrandt would have made of him!’ ‘poor old chap!’ said hughie, ‘how miserable he looks! but i suppose, to you painters, his face is his fortune?’ ‘certainly,’ replied trevor, ‘you don’t want a beggar to look happy, do you?’ ‘how much does a model get for sitting?’ asked hughie, as he found himself a comfortable seat on a divan. ‘a shilling an hour.’ ‘and how much do you get for your picture, alan?’ ‘oh, for this i get two thousand!’ ‘pounds?’ ‘guineas. painters, poets, and physicians always get guineas.’ ‘well, i think the model should have a percentage,’ cried hughie, laughing; ‘they work quite as hard as you do.’ ‘nonsense, nonsense! why, look at the trouble of laying on the paint alone, and standing all day long at one’s easel! it’s all very well, hughie, for you to talk, but i assure you that there are moments when art almost attains to the dignity of manual labour. but you mustn’t chatter; i’m very busy. smoke a cigarette, and keep quiet.’ after some time the servant came in, and told trevor that the framemaker wanted to speak to him. ‘don’t run away, hughie,’ he said, as he went out, ‘i will be back in a moment.’ the old beggar-man took advantage of trevor’s absence to rest for a moment on a wooden bench that was behind him. he looked so forlorn and wretched that hughie could not help pitying him, and felt in his pockets to see what money he had. all he could find was a sovereign and some coppers. ‘poor old fellow,’ he thought to himself, ‘he wants it more than i do, but it means no hansoms for a fortnight’; and he walked across the studio and slipped the sovereign into the beggar’s hand. the old man started, and a faint smile flitted across his withered lips. ‘thank you, sir,’ he said, ‘thank you.’ then trevor arrived, and hughie took his leave, blushing a little at what he had done. he spent the day with laura, got a charming scolding for his extravagance, and had to walk home. that night he strolled into the palette club about eleven o’clock, and found trevor sitting by himself in the smoking-room drinking hock and seltzer. ‘well, alan, did you get the picture finished all right?’ he said, as he lit his cigarette. ‘finished and framed, my boy!’ answered trevor; ‘and, by the bye, you have made a conquest. that old model you saw is quite devoted to you. i had to tell him all about you—who you are, where you live, what your income is, what prospects you have—’ ‘my dear alan,’ cried hughie, ‘i shall probably find him waiting for me when i go home. but of course you are only joking. poor old wretch! i wish i could do something for him. i think it is dreadful that any one should be so miserable. i have got heaps of old clothes at home—do you think he would care for any of them? why, his rags were falling to bits.’ ‘but he looks splendid in them,’ said trevor. ‘i wouldn’t paint him in a frock coat for anything. what you call rags i call romance. what seems poverty to you is picturesqueness to me. however, i’ll tell him of your offer.’ ‘alan,’ said hughie seriously, ‘you painters are a heartless lot.’ ‘an artist’s heart is his head,’ replied trevor; ‘and besides, our business is to realise the world as we see it, not to reform it as we know it. _à chacun son métier_. and now tell me how laura is. the old model was quite interested in her.’ ‘you don’t mean to say you talked to him about her?’ said hughie. ‘certainly i did. he knows all about the relentless colonel, the lovely laura, and the <UNK> ‘you told that old beggar all my private affairs?’ cried hughie, looking very red and angry. ‘my dear boy,’ said trevor, smiling, ‘that old beggar, as you call him, is one of the richest men in europe. he could buy all london to-morrow without overdrawing his account. he has a house in every capital, dines off gold plate, and can prevent russia going to war when he chooses.’ ‘what on earth do you mean?’ exclaimed hughie. ‘what i say,’ said trevor. ‘the old man you saw to-day in the studio was baron hausberg. he is a great friend of mine, buys all my pictures and that sort of thing, and gave me a commission a month ago to paint him as a beggar. _que voulez-vous_? _la fantaisie d’un millionnaire_! and i must say he made a magnificent figure in his rags, or perhaps i should say in my rags; they are an old suit i got in spain.’ ‘baron hausberg!’ cried hughie. ‘good heavens! i gave him a sovereign!’ and he sank into an armchair the picture of dismay. ‘gave him a sovereign!’ shouted trevor, and he burst into a roar of laughter. ‘my dear boy, you’ll never see it again. _son affaire c’est l’argent des autres_.’ ‘i think you might have told me, alan,’ said hughie sulkily, ‘and not have let me make such a fool of myself.’ ‘well, to begin with, hughie,’ said trevor, ‘it never entered my mind that you went about distributing alms in that reckless way. i can understand your kissing a pretty model, but your giving a sovereign to an ugly one—by jove, no! besides, the fact is that i really was not at home to-day to any one; and when you came in i didn’t know whether hausberg would like his name mentioned. you know he wasn’t in full dress.’ ‘what a duffer he must think me!’ said hughie. ‘not at all. he was in the highest spirits after you left; kept chuckling to himself and rubbing his old wrinkled hands together. i couldn’t make out why he was so interested to know all about you; but i see it all now. he’ll invest your sovereign for you, hughie, pay you the interest every six months, and have a capital story to tell after dinner.’ ‘i am an unlucky devil,’ growled hughie. ‘the best thing i can do is to go to bed; and, my dear alan, you mustn’t tell any one. i shouldn’t dare show my face in the row.’ ‘nonsense! it reflects the highest credit on your philanthropic spirit, hughie. and don’t run away. have another cigarette, and you can talk about laura as much as you like.’ however, hughie wouldn’t stop, but walked home, feeling very unhappy, and leaving alan trevor in fits of laughter. the next morning, as he was at breakfast, the servant brought him up a card on which was written, ‘monsieur gustave naudin, _de la part de_ m. le baron hausberg.’ ‘i suppose he has come for an apology,’ said hughie to himself; and he told the servant to show the visitor up. an old gentleman with gold spectacles and grey hair came into the room, and said, in a slight french accent, ‘have i the honour of addressing monsieur erskine?’ hughie bowed. ‘i have come from baron hausberg,’ he continued. ‘the baron—’ ‘i beg, sir, that you will offer him my sincerest apologies,’ stammered hughie. ‘the baron,’ said the old gentleman with a smile, ‘has commissioned me to bring you this letter’; and he extended a sealed envelope. on the outside was written, ‘a wedding present to hugh erskine and laura merton, from an old beggar,’ and inside was a cheque for <UNK> when they were married alan trevor was the best man, and the baron made a speech at the wedding breakfast. ‘millionaire models,’ remarked alan, ‘are rare enough; but, by jove, model millionaires are rarer still!’ the portrait of mr. w. h. chapter i i had been dining with erskine in his pretty little house in birdcage walk, and we were sitting in the library over our coffee and cigarettes, when the question of literary forgeries happened to turn up in conversation. i cannot at present remember how it was that we struck upon this somewhat curious topic, as it was at that time, but i know that we had a long discussion about macpherson, ireland, and chatterton, and that with regard to the last i insisted that his so-called forgeries were merely the result of an artistic desire for perfect representation; that we had no right to quarrel with an artist for the conditions under which he chooses to present his work; and that all art being to a certain degree a mode of acting, an attempt to realise one’s own personality on some imaginative plane out of reach of the trammelling accidents and limitations of real life, to censure an artist for a forgery was to confuse an ethical with an æsthetical problem. erskine, who was a good deal older than i was, and had been listening to me with the amused deference of a man of forty, suddenly put his hand upon my shoulder and said to me, ‘what would you say about a young man who had a strange theory about a certain work of art, believed in his theory, and committed a forgery in order to prove it?’ ‘ah! that is quite a different matter,’ i answered. erskine remained silent for a few moments, looking at the thin grey threads of smoke that were rising from his cigarette. ‘yes,’ he said, after a pause, ‘quite different.’ there was something in the tone of his voice, a slight touch of bitterness perhaps, that excited my curiosity. ‘did you ever know anybody who did that?’ i cried. ‘yes,’ he answered, throwing his cigarette into the fire,—‘a great friend of mine, cyril graham. he was very fascinating, and very foolish, and very heartless. however, he left me the only legacy i ever received in my life.’ ‘what was that?’ i exclaimed. erskine rose from his seat, and going over to a tall inlaid cabinet that stood between the two windows, unlocked it, and came back to where i was sitting, holding in his hand a small panel picture set in an old and somewhat tarnished elizabethan frame. it was a full-length portrait of a young man in late sixteenth-century costume, standing by a table, with his right hand resting on an open book. he seemed about seventeen years of age, and was of quite extraordinary personal beauty, though evidently somewhat effeminate. indeed, had it not been for the dress and the closely cropped hair, one would have said that the face with its dreamy wistful eyes, and its delicate scarlet lips, was the face of a girl. in manner, and especially in the treatment of the hands, the picture reminded one of françois clouet’s later work. the black velvet doublet with its fantastically gilded points, and the peacock-blue background against which it showed up so pleasantly, and from which it gained such luminous value of colour, were quite in clouet’s style; and the two masks of tragedy and comedy that hung somewhat formally from the marble pedestal had that hard severity of touch—so different from the facile grace of the italians—which even at the court of france the great flemish master never completely lost, and which in itself has always been a characteristic of the northern temper. ‘it is a charming thing,’ i cried, ‘but who is this wonderful young man, whose beauty art has so happily preserved for us?’ ‘this is the portrait of mr. w. h.,’ said erskine, with a sad smile. it might have been a chance effect of light, but it seemed to me that his eyes were quite bright with tears. ‘mr. w. h.!’ i exclaimed; ‘who was mr. w. h.?’ ‘don’t you remember?’ he answered; ‘look at the book on which his hand is resting.’ ‘i see there is some writing there, but i cannot make it out,’ i replied. ‘take this magnifying-glass and try,’ said erskine, with the same sad smile still playing about his mouth. i took the glass, and moving the lamp a little nearer, i began to spell out the crabbed sixteenth-century handwriting. ‘to the onlie begetter of these insuing sonnets.’ . . . ‘good heavens!’ i cried, ‘is this shakespeare’s mr. w. h.?’ ‘cyril graham used to say so,’ muttered erskine. ‘but it is not a bit like lord pembroke,’ i answered. ‘i know the penshurst portraits very well. i was staying near there a few weeks ago.’ ‘do you really believe then that the sonnets are addressed to lord pembroke?’ he asked. ‘i am sure of it,’ i answered. ‘pembroke, shakespeare, and mrs. mary fitton are the three personages of the sonnets; there is no doubt at all about it.’ ‘well, i agree with you,’ said erskine, ‘but i did not always think so. i used to believe—well, i suppose i used to believe in cyril graham and his theory.’ ‘and what was that?’ i asked, looking at the wonderful portrait, which had already begun to have a strange fascination for me. ‘it is a long story,’ said erskine, taking the picture away from me—rather abruptly i thought at the time—‘a very long story; but if you care to hear it, i will tell it to you.’ ‘i love theories about the sonnets,’ i cried; ‘but i don’t think i am likely to be converted to any new idea. the matter has ceased to be a mystery to any one. indeed, i wonder that it ever was a mystery.’ ‘as i don’t believe in the theory, i am not likely to convert you to it,’ said erskine, laughing; ‘but it may interest you.’ ‘tell it to me, of course,’ i answered. ‘if it is half as delightful as the picture, i shall be more than satisfied.’ ‘well,’ said erskine, lighting a cigarette, ‘i must begin by telling you about cyril graham himself. he and i were at the same house at eton. i was a year or two older than he was, but we were immense friends, and did all our work and all our play together. there was, of course, a good deal more play than work, but i cannot say that i am sorry for that. it is always an advantage not to have received a sound commercial education, and what i learned in the playing fields at eton has been quite as useful to me as anything i was taught at cambridge. i should tell you that cyril’s father and mother were both dead. they had been drowned in a horrible yachting accident off the isle of wight. his father had been in the diplomatic service, and had married a daughter, the only daughter, in fact, of old lord crediton, who became cyril’s guardian after the death of his parents. i don’t think that lord crediton cared very much for cyril. he had never really forgiven his daughter for marrying a man who had not a title. he was an extraordinary old aristocrat, who swore like a costermonger, and had the manners of a farmer. i remember seeing him once on speech-day. he growled at me, gave me a sovereign, and told me not to grow up “a damned radical” like my father. cyril had very little affection for him, and was only too glad to spend most of his holidays with us in scotland. they never really got on together at all. cyril thought him a bear, and he thought cyril effeminate. he was effeminate, i suppose, in some things, though he was a very good rider and a capital fencer. in fact he got the foils before he left eton. but he was very languid in his manner, and not a little vain of his good looks, and had a strong objection to football. the two things that really gave him pleasure were poetry and acting. at eton he was always dressing up and reciting shakespeare, and when we went up to trinity he became a member of the a.d.c. his first term. i remember i was always very jealous of his acting. i was absurdly devoted to him; i suppose because we were so different in some things. i was a rather awkward, weakly lad, with huge feet, and horribly freckled. freckles run in scotch families just as gout does in english families. cyril used to say that of the two he preferred the gout; but he always set an absurdly high value on personal appearance, and once read a paper before our debating society to prove that it was better to be good-looking than to be good. he certainly was wonderfully handsome. people who did not like him, philistines and college tutors, and young men reading for the church, used to say that he was merely pretty; but there was a great deal more in his face than mere prettiness. i think he was the most splendid creature i ever saw, and nothing could exceed the grace of his movements, the charm of his manner. he fascinated everybody who was worth fascinating, and a great many people who were not. he was often wilful and petulant, and i used to think him dreadfully insincere. it was due, i think, chiefly to his inordinate desire to please. poor cyril! i told him once that he was contented with very cheap triumphs, but he only laughed. he was horribly spoiled. all charming people, i fancy, are spoiled. it is the secret of their attraction. ‘however, i must tell you about cyril’s acting. you know that no actresses are allowed to play at the a.d.c. at least they were not in my time. i don’t know how it is now. well, of course, cyril was always cast for the girls’ parts, and when _as you like it_ was produced he played rosalind. it was a marvellous performance. in fact, cyril graham was the only perfect rosalind i have ever seen. it would be impossible to describe to you the beauty, the delicacy, the refinement of the whole thing. it made an immense sensation, and the horrid little theatre, as it was then, was crowded every night. even when i read the play now i can’t help thinking of cyril. it might have been written for him. the next term he took his degree, and came to london to read for the diplomatic. but he never did any work. he spent his days in reading shakespeare’s sonnets, and his evenings at the theatre. he was, of course, wild to go on the stage. it was all that i and lord crediton could do to prevent him. perhaps if he had gone on the stage he would be alive now. it is always a silly thing to give advice, but to give good advice is absolutely fatal. i hope you will never fall into that error. if you do, you will be sorry for it. ‘well, to come to the real point of the story, one day i got a letter from cyril asking me to come round to his rooms that evening. he had charming chambers in piccadilly overlooking the green park, and as i used to go to see him every day, i was rather surprised at his taking the trouble to write. of course i went, and when i arrived i found him in a state of great excitement. he told me that he had at last discovered the true secret of shakespeare’s sonnets; that all the scholars and critics had been entirely on the wrong tack; and that he was the first who, working purely by internal evidence, had found out who mr. w. h. really was. he was perfectly wild with delight, and for a long time would not tell me his theory. finally, he produced a bundle of notes, took his copy of the sonnets off the mantelpiece, and sat down and gave me a long lecture on the whole subject. ‘he began by pointing out that the young man to whom shakespeare addressed these strangely passionate poems must have been somebody who was a really vital factor in the development of his dramatic art, and that this could not be said either of lord pembroke or lord southampton. indeed, whoever he was, he could not have been anybody of high birth, as was shown very clearly by the <UNK> sonnet, in which shakespeare contrasting himself with those who are “great princes’ favourites,” says quite frankly— let those who are in favour with their stars of public honour and proud titles boast, whilst i, whom fortune of such triumph bars, unlook’d for joy in that i honour most. and ends the sonnet by congratulating himself on the mean state of him he so adored. then happy i, that love and am beloved where i may not remove nor be removed. this sonnet cyril declared would be quite unintelligible if we fancied that it was addressed to either the earl of pembroke or the earl of southampton, both of whom were men of the highest position in england and fully entitled to be called “great princes”; and he in corroboration of his view read me sonnets cxxiv. and cxxv., in which shakespeare tells us that his love is not “the child of state,” that it “suffers not in smiling pomp,” but is “builded far from accident.” i listened with a good deal of interest, for i don’t think the point had ever been made before; but what followed was still more curious, and seemed to me at the time to dispose entirely of pembroke’s claim. we know from meres that the sonnets had been written before <UNK> and sonnet civ. informs us that shakespeare’s friendship for mr. w. h. had been already in existence for three years. now lord pembroke, who was born in <UNK> did not come to london till he was eighteen years of age, that is to say till <UNK> and shakespeare’s acquaintance with mr. w. h. must have begun in <UNK> or at the latest in <UNK> shakespeare, accordingly, could not have known lord pembroke till after the sonnets had been written. ‘cyril pointed out also that pembroke’s father did not die till <UNK> whereas it was evident from the line, you had a father; let your son say so, that the father of mr. w. h. was dead in <UNK> besides, it was absurd to imagine that any publisher of the time, and the preface is from the publisher’s hand, would have ventured to address william herbert, earl of pembroke, as mr. w. h.; the case of lord buckhurst being spoken of as mr. sackville being not really a parallel instance, as lord buckhurst was not a peer, but merely the younger son of a peer, with a courtesy title, and the passage in _england’s parnassus_, where he is so spoken of, is not a formal and stately dedication, but simply a casual allusion. so far for lord pembroke, whose supposed claims cyril easily demolished while i sat by in wonder. with lord southampton cyril had even less difficulty. southampton became at a very early age the lover of elizabeth vernon, so he needed no entreaties to marry; he was not beautiful; he did not resemble his mother, as mr. w. h. did— thou art thy mother’s glass, and she in thee calls back the lovely april of her prime; and, above all, his christian name was henry, whereas the punning sonnets (cxxxv. and cxliii.) show that the christian name of shakespeare’s friend was the same as his own—_will_. ‘as for the other suggestions of unfortunate commentators, that mr. w. h. is a misprint for mr. w. s., meaning mr. william shakespeare; that “mr. w. h. all” should be read “mr. w. hall”; that mr. w. h. is mr. william hathaway; and that a full stop should be placed after “wisheth,” making mr. w. h. the writer and not the subject of the dedication,—cyril got rid of them in a very short time; and it is not worth while to mention his reasons, though i remember he sent me off into a fit of laughter by reading to me, i am glad to say not in the original, some extracts from a german commentator called barnstorff, who insisted that mr. w. h. was no less a person than “mr. william himself.” nor would he allow for a moment that the sonnets are mere satires on the work of drayton and john davies of hereford. to him, as indeed to me, they were poems of serious and tragic import, wrung out of the bitterness of shakespeare’s heart, and made sweet by the honey of his lips. still less would he admit that they were merely a philosophical allegory, and that in them shakespeare is addressing his ideal self, or ideal manhood, or the spirit of beauty, or the reason, or the divine logos, or the catholic church. he felt, as indeed i think we all must feel, that the sonnets are addressed to an individual,—to a particular young man whose personality for some reason seems to have filled the soul of shakespeare with terrible joy and no less terrible despair. ‘having in this manner cleared the way as it were, cyril asked me to dismiss from my mind any preconceived ideas i might have formed on the subject, and to give a fair and unbiassed hearing to his own theory. the problem he pointed out was this: who was that young man of shakespeare’s day who, without being of noble birth or even of noble nature, was addressed by him in terms of such passionate adoration that we can but wonder at the strange worship, and are almost afraid to turn the key that unlocks the mystery of the poet’s heart? who was he whose physical beauty was such that it became the very corner-stone of shakespeare’s art; the very source of shakespeare’s inspiration; the very incarnation of shakespeare’s dreams? to look upon him as simply the object of certain love-poems is to miss the whole meaning of the poems: for the art of which shakespeare talks in the sonnets is not the art of the sonnets themselves, which indeed were to him but slight and secret things—it is the art of the dramatist to which he is always alluding; and he to whom shakespeare said— thou art all my art, and dost advance as high as learning my rude ignorance, he to whom he promised immortality, where breath most breathes, even in the mouths of men,— was surely none other than the boy-actor for whom he created viola and imogen, juliet and rosalind, portia and desdemona, and cleopatra herself. this was cyril graham’s theory, evolved as you see purely from the sonnets themselves, and depending for its acceptance not so much on demonstrable proof or formal evidence, but on a kind of spiritual and artistic sense, by which alone he claimed could the true meaning of the poems be discerned. i remember his reading to me that fine sonnet— how can my muse want subject to invent, while thou dost breathe, that pour’st into my verse thine own sweet argument, too excellent for every vulgar paper to rehearse? o, give thyself the thanks, if aught in me worthy perusal stand against thy sight; for who’s so dumb that cannot write to thee, when thou thyself dost give invention light? be thou the tenth muse, ten times more in worth than those old nine which rhymers invocate; and he that calls on thee, let him bring forth eternal numbers to outlive long date— and pointing out how completely it corroborated his theory; and indeed he went through all the sonnets carefully, and showed, or fancied that he showed, that, according to his new explanation of their meaning, things that had seemed obscure, or evil, or exaggerated, became clear and rational, and of high artistic import, illustrating shakespeare’s conception of the true relations between the art of the actor and the art of the dramatist. ‘it is of course evident that there must have been in shakespeare’s company some wonderful boy-actor of great beauty, to whom he intrusted the presentation of his noble heroines; for shakespeare was a practical theatrical manager as well as an imaginative poet, and cyril graham had actually discovered the boy-actor’s name. he was will, or, as he preferred to call him, willie hughes. the christian name he found of course in the punning sonnets, cxxxv. and cxliii.; the surname was, according to him, hidden in the seventh line of the <UNK> sonnet, where mr. w. h. is described as— a man in hew, all _hews_ in his controwling. ‘in the original edition of the sonnets “hews” is printed with a capital letter and in italics, and this, he claimed, showed clearly that a play on words was intended, his view receiving a good deal of corroboration from those sonnets in which curious puns are made on the words “use” and “usury.” of course i was converted at once, and willie hughes became to me as real a person as shakespeare. the only objection i made to the theory was that the name of willie hughes does not occur in the list of the actors of shakespeare’s company as it is printed in the first folio. cyril, however, pointed out that the absence of willie hughes’s name from this list really corroborated the theory, as it was evident from sonnet lxxxvi. that willie hughes had abandoned shakespeare’s company to play at a rival theatre, probably in some of chapman’s plays. it is in reference to this that in the great sonnet on chapman, shakespeare said to willie hughes— but when your countenance fill’d up his line, then lack’d i matter; that enfeebled mine— the expression “when your countenance filled up his line” referring obviously to the beauty of the young actor giving life and reality and added charm to chapman’s verse, the same idea being also put forward in the <UNK> sonnet— whilst i alone did call upon thy aid, my verse alone had all thy gentle grace; but now my gracious numbers are decay’d, and my sick muse doth give another place; and in the immediately preceding sonnet, where shakespeare says— every alien pen has got my _use_ and under thee their poesy disperse, the play upon words (use=hughes) being of course obvious, and the phrase “under thee their poesy disperse,” meaning “by your assistance as an actor bring their plays before the people.” ‘it was a wonderful evening, and we sat up almost till dawn reading and re-reading the sonnets. after some time, however, i began to see that before the theory could be placed before the world in a really perfected form, it was necessary to get some independent evidence about the existence of this young actor, willie hughes. if this could be once established, there could be no possible doubt about his identity with mr. w. h.; but otherwise the theory would fall to the ground. i put this forward very strongly to cyril, who was a good deal annoyed at what he called my philistine tone of mind, and indeed was rather bitter upon the subject. however, i made him promise that in his own interest he would not publish his discovery till he had put the whole matter beyond the reach of doubt; and for weeks and weeks we searched the registers of city churches, the alleyn mss. at dulwich, the record office, the papers of the lord chamberlain—everything, in fact, that we thought might contain some allusion to willie hughes. we discovered nothing, of course, and every day the existence of willie hughes seemed to me to become more problematical. cyril was in a dreadful state, and used to go over the whole question day after day, entreating me to believe; but i saw the one flaw in the theory, and i refused to be convinced till the actual existence of willie hughes, a boy-actor of elizabethan days, had been placed beyond the reach of doubt or cavil. ‘one day cyril left town to stay with his grandfather, i thought at the time, but i afterwards heard from lord crediton that this was not the case; and about a fortnight afterwards i received a telegram from him, handed in at warwick, asking me to be sure to come and dine with him that evening at eight o’clock. when i arrived, he said to me, “the only apostle who did not deserve proof was st. thomas, and st. thomas was the only apostle who got it.” i asked him what he meant. he answered that he had not merely been able to establish the existence in the sixteenth century of a boy-actor of the name of willie hughes, but to prove by the most conclusive evidence that he was the mr. w. h. of the sonnets. he would not tell me anything more at the time; but after dinner he solemnly produced the picture i showed you, and told me that he had discovered it by the merest chance nailed to the side of an old chest that he had bought at a farmhouse in warwickshire. the chest itself, which was a very fine example of elizabethan work, he had, of course, brought with him, and in the centre of the front panel the initials w. h. were undoubtedly carved. it was this monogram that had attracted his attention, and he told me that it was not till he had had the chest in his possession for several days that he had thought of making any careful examination of the inside. one morning, however, he saw that one of the sides of the chest was much thicker than the other, and looking more closely, he discovered that a framed panel picture was clamped against it. on taking it out, he found it was the picture that is now lying on the sofa. it was very dirty, and covered with mould; but he managed to clean it, and, to his great joy, saw that he had fallen by mere chance on the one thing for which he had been looking. here was an authentic portrait of mr. w. h., with his hand resting on the dedicatory page of the sonnets, and on the frame itself could be faintly seen the name of the young man written in black uncial letters on a faded gold ground, “master will. hews.” ‘well, what was i to say? it never occurred to me for a moment that cyril graham was playing a trick on me, or that he was trying to prove his theory by means of a forgery.’ ‘but is it a forgery?’ i asked. ‘of course it is,’ said erskine. ‘it is a very good forgery; but it is a forgery none the less. i thought at the time that cyril was rather calm about the whole matter; but i remember he more than once told me that he himself required no proof of the kind, and that he thought the theory complete without it. i laughed at him, and told him that without it the theory would fall to the ground, and i warmly congratulated him on the marvellous discovery. we then arranged that the picture should be etched or facsimiled, and placed as the frontispiece to cyril’s edition of the sonnets; and for three months we did nothing but go over each poem line by line, till we had settled every difficulty of text or meaning. one unlucky day i was in a print-shop in holborn, when i saw upon the counter some extremely beautiful drawings in silver-point. i was so attracted by them that i bought them; and the proprietor of the place, a man called rawlings, told me that they were done by a young painter of the name of edward merton, who was very clever, but as poor as a church mouse. i went to see merton some days afterwards, having got his address from the printseller, and found a pale, interesting young man, with a rather common-looking wife—his model, as i subsequently learned. i told him how much i admired his drawings, at which he seemed very pleased, and i asked him if he would show me some of his other work. as we were looking over a portfolio, full of really very lovely things,—for merton had a most delicate and delightful touch,—i suddenly caught sight of a drawing of the picture of mr. w. h. there was no doubt whatever about it. it was almost a _facsimile_—the only difference being that the two masks of tragedy and comedy were not suspended from the marble table as they are in the picture, but were lying on the floor at the young man’s feet. “where on earth did you get that?” i said. he grew rather confused, and said—“oh, that is nothing. i did not know it was in this portfolio. it is not a thing of any value.” “it is what you did for mr. cyril graham,” exclaimed his wife; “and if this gentleman wishes to buy it, let him have it.” “for mr. cyril graham?” i repeated. “did you paint the picture of mr. w. h.?” “i don’t understand what you mean,” he answered, growing very red. well, the whole thing was quite dreadful. the wife let it all out. i gave her five pounds when i was going away. i can’t bear to think of it now; but of course i was furious. i went off at once to cyril’s chambers, waited there for three hours before he came in, with that horrid lie staring me in the face, and told him i had discovered his forgery. he grew very pale and said—“i did it purely for your sake. you would not be convinced in any other way. it does not affect the truth of the theory.” “the truth of the theory!” i exclaimed; “the less we talk about that the better. you never even believed in it yourself. if you had, you would not have committed a forgery to prove it.” high words passed between us; we had a fearful quarrel. i dare say i was unjust. the next morning he was dead.’ ‘dead!’ i cried, ‘yes; he shot himself with a revolver. some of the blood splashed upon the frame of the picture, just where the name had been painted. by the time i arrived—his servant had sent for me at once—the police were already there. he had left a letter for me, evidently written in the greatest agitation and distress of mind.’ ‘what was in it?’ i asked. ‘oh, that he believed absolutely in willie hughes; that the forgery of the picture had been done simply as a concession to me, and did not in the slightest degree invalidate the truth of the theory; and, that in order to show me how firm and flawless his faith in the whole thing was, he was going to offer his life as a sacrifice to the secret of the sonnets. it was a foolish, mad letter. i remember he ended by saying that he intrusted to me the willie hughes theory, and that it was for me to present it to the world, and to unlock the secret of shakespeare’s heart.’ ‘it is a most tragic story,’ i cried; ‘but why have you not carried out his wishes?’ erskine shrugged his shoulders. ‘because it is a perfectly unsound theory from beginning to end,’ he answered. ‘my dear erskine,’ i said, getting up from my seat, ‘you are entirely wrong about the whole matter. it is the only perfect key to shakespeare’s sonnets that has ever been made. it is complete in every detail. i believe in willie hughes.’ ‘don’t say that,’ said erskine gravely; ‘i believe there is something fatal about the idea, and intellectually there is nothing to be said for it. i have gone into the whole matter, and i assure you the theory is entirely fallacious. it is plausible up to a certain point. then it stops. for heaven’s sake, my dear boy, don’t take up the subject of willie hughes. you will break your heart over it.’ ‘erskine,’ i answered, ‘it is your duty to give this theory to the world. if you will not do it, i will. by keeping it back you wrong the memory of cyril graham, the youngest and the most splendid of all the martyrs of literature. i entreat you to do him justice. he died for this thing,—don’t let his death be in vain.’ erskine looked at me in amazement. ‘you are carried away by the sentiment of the whole story,’ he said. ‘you forget that a thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it. i was devoted to cyril graham. his death was a horrible blow to me. i did not recover it for years. i don’t think i have ever recovered it. but willie hughes? there is nothing in the idea of willie hughes. no such person ever existed. as for bringing the whole thing before the world—the world thinks that cyril graham shot himself by accident. the only proof of his suicide was contained in the letter to me, and of this letter the public never heard anything. to the present day lord crediton thinks that the whole thing was accidental.’ ‘cyril graham sacrificed his life to a great idea,’ i answered; ‘and if you will not tell of his martyrdom, tell at least of his faith.’ ‘his faith,’ said erskine, ‘was fixed in a thing that was false, in a thing that was unsound, in a thing that no shakespearean scholar would accept for a moment. the theory would be laughed at. don’t make a fool of yourself, and don’t follow a trail that leads nowhere. you start by assuming the existence of the very person whose existence is the thing to be proved. besides, everybody knows that the sonnets were addressed to lord pembroke. the matter is settled once for all.’ ‘the matter is not settled!’ i exclaimed. ‘i will take up the theory where cyril graham left it, and i will prove to the world that he was right.’ ‘silly boy!’ said erskine. ‘go home: it is after two, and don’t think about willie hughes any more. i am sorry i told you anything about it, and very sorry indeed that i should have converted you to a thing in which i don’t believe.’ ‘you have given me the key to the greatest mystery of modern literature,’ i answered; ‘and i shall not rest till i have made you recognise, till i have made everybody recognise, that cyril graham was the most subtle shakespearean critic of our day.’ as i walked home through st. james’s park the dawn was just breaking over london. the white swans were lying asleep on the polished lake, and the gaunt palace looked purple against the pale-green sky. i thought of cyril graham, and my eyes filled with tears. chapter ii it was past twelve o’clock when i awoke, and the sun was streaming in through the curtains of my room in long slanting beams of dusty gold. i told my servant that i would be at home to no one; and after i had had a cup of chocolate and a _petit-pain_, i took down from the book-shelf my copy of shakespeare’s sonnets, and began to go carefully through them. every poem seemed to me to corroborate cyril graham’s theory. i felt as if i had my hand upon shakespeare’s heart, and was counting each separate throb and pulse of passion. i thought of the wonderful boy-actor, and saw his face in every line. two sonnets, i remember, struck me particularly: they were the <UNK> and the <UNK> in the first of these, shakespeare, complimenting willie hughes on the versatility of his acting, on his wide range of parts, a range extending from rosalind to juliet, and from beatrice to ophelia, says to him— what is your substance, whereof are you made, that millions of strange shadows on you tend? since every one hath, every one, one shade, and you, but one, can every shadow lend— lines that would be unintelligible if they were not addressed to an actor, for the word ‘shadow’ had in shakespeare’s day a technical meaning connected with the stage. ‘the best in this kind are but shadows,’ says theseus of the actors in the _midsummer night’s dream_, and there are many similar allusions in the literature of the day. these sonnets evidently belonged to the series in which shakespeare discusses the nature of the actor’s art, and of the strange and rare temperament that is essential to the perfect stage-player. ‘how is it,’ says shakespeare to willie hughes, ‘that you have so many personalities?’ and then he goes on to point out that his beauty is such that it seems to realise every form and phase of fancy, to embody each dream of the creative imagination—an idea that is still further expanded in the sonnet that immediately follows, where, beginning with the fine thought, o, how much more doth beauty beauteous seem by that sweet ornament which _truth_ doth give! shakespeare invites us to notice how the truth of acting, the truth of visible presentation on the stage, adds to the wonder of poetry, giving life to its loveliness, and actual reality to its ideal form. and yet, in the <UNK> sonnet, shakespeare calls upon willie hughes to abandon the stage with its artificiality, its false mimic life of painted face and unreal costume, its immoral influences and suggestions, its remoteness from the true world of noble action and sincere utterance. ah, wherefore with infection should he live and with his presence grace impiety, that sin by him advantage should achieve and lace itself with his society? why should false painting imitate his cheek, and steal dead seeming of his living hue? why should poor beauty indirectly seek roses of shadow, since his rose is true? it may seem strange that so great a dramatist as shakespeare, who realised his own perfection as an artist and his humanity as a man on the ideal plane of stage-writing and stage-playing, should have written in these terms about the theatre; but we must remember that in sonnets cx. and cxi. shakespeare shows us that he too was wearied of the world of puppets, and full of shame at having made himself ‘a motley to the view.’ the <UNK> sonnet is especially bitter:— o, for my sake do you with fortune chide, the guilty goddess of my harmful deeds, that did not better for my life provide than public means which public manners breeds. thence comes it that my name receives a brand, and almost thence my nature is subdued to what it works in, like the dyer’s hand: pity me then and wish i were renew’d— and there are many signs elsewhere of the same feeling, signs familiar to all real students of shakespeare. one point puzzled me immensely as i read the sonnets, and it was days before i struck on the true interpretation, which indeed cyril graham himself seems to have missed. i could not understand how it was that shakespeare set so high a value on his young friend marrying. he himself had married young, and the result had been unhappiness, and it was not likely that he would have asked willie hughes to commit the same error. the boy-player of rosalind had nothing to gain from marriage, or from the passions of real life. the early sonnets, with their strange entreaties to have children, seemed to me a jarring note. the explanation of the mystery came on me quite suddenly, and i found it in the curious dedication. it will be remembered that the dedication runs as follows:— to the onlie begetter of these insuing sonnets mr. w. h. all happinesse and that eternitie promised by our ever-living poet wisheth the well-wishing adventurer in setting forth. t. t. some scholars have supposed that the word ‘begetter’ in this dedication means simply the procurer of the sonnets for thomas thorpe the publisher; but this view is now generally abandoned, and the highest authorities are quite agreed that it is to be taken in the sense of inspirer, the metaphor being drawn from the analogy of physical life. now i saw that the same metaphor was used by shakespeare himself all through the poems, and this set me on the right track. finally i made my great discovery. the marriage that shakespeare proposes for willie hughes is the marriage with his muse, an expression which is definitely put forward in the <UNK> sonnet, where, in the bitterness of his heart at the defection of the boy-actor for whom he had written his greatest parts, and whose beauty had indeed suggested them, he opens his complaint by saying— i grant thou wert not married to my muse. the children he begs him to beget are no children of flesh and blood, but more immortal children of undying fame. the whole cycle of the early sonnets is simply shakespeare’s invitation to willie hughes to go upon the stage and become a player. how barren and profitless a thing, he says, is this beauty of yours if it be not used:— when forty winters shall besiege thy brow and dig deep trenches in thy beauty’s field, thy youth’s proud livery, so gazed on now, will be a tatter’d weed, of small worth held: then being ask’d where all thy beauty lies, where all the treasure of thy lusty days, to say, within thine own deep-sunken eyes, were an all-eating shame and thriftless praise. you must create something in art: my verse ‘is thine, and _born_ of thee’; only listen to me, and i will ‘_bring forth_ eternal numbers to outlive long date,’ and you shall people with forms of your own image the imaginary world of the stage. these children that you beget, he continues, will not wither away, as mortal children do, but you shall live in them and in my plays: do but— make thee another self, for love of me, that beauty still may live in thine or thee. i collected all the passages that seemed to me to corroborate this view, and they produced a strong impression on me, and showed me how complete cyril graham’s theory really was. i also saw that it was quite easy to separate those lines in which he speaks of the sonnets themselves from those in which he speaks of his great dramatic work. this was a point that had been entirely overlooked by all critics up to cyril graham’s day. and yet it was one of the most important points in the whole series of poems. to the sonnets shakespeare was more or less indifferent. he did not wish to rest his fame on them. they were to him his ‘slight muse,’ as he calls them, and intended, as meres tells us, for private circulation only among a few, a very few, friends. upon the other hand he was extremely conscious of the high artistic value of his plays, and shows a noble self-reliance upon his dramatic genius. when he says to willie hughes: but thy eternal summer shall not fade, nor lose possession of that fair thou owest; nor shall death brag thou wander’st in his shade, when in _eternal lines_ to time thou grow’st: so long as men can breathe, or eyes can see, so long lives this, and this gives life to thee;— the expression ‘eternal lines’ clearly alludes to one of his plays that he was sending him at the time, just as the concluding couplet points to his confidence in the probability of his plays being always acted. in his address to the dramatic muse (sonnets c. and ci.), we find the same feeling. where art thou, muse, that thou forget’st so long to speak of that which gives thee all thy might? spend’st thou thy fury on some worthless song, darkening thy power to lend base subjects light? he cries, and he then proceeds to reproach the mistress of tragedy and comedy for her ‘neglect of truth in beauty dyed,’ and says— because he needs no praise, wilt thou be dumb? excuse not silence so, for ‘t lies in thee to make him much outlive a gilded tomb and to be praised of ages yet to be. then do thy office, muse; i teach thee how to make him seem long hence as he shows now. it is, however, perhaps in the <UNK> sonnet that shakespeare gives to this idea its fullest expression. to imagine that the ‘powerful rhyme’ of the second line refers to the sonnet itself, is to mistake shakespeare’s meaning entirely. it seemed to me that it was extremely likely, from the general character of the sonnet, that a particular play was meant, and that the play was none other but _romeo and juliet_. not marble, nor the gilded monuments of princes, shall outlive this powerful rhyme; but you shall shine more bright in these contents than unswept stone besmear’d with sluttish time. when wasteful wars shall statues overturn, and broils root out the work of masonry, nor mars his sword nor war’s quick fire shall burn the living record of your memory. ‘gainst death and all-oblivious enmity shall you pace forth; your praise shall still find room even in the eyes of all posterity that wear this world out to the ending doom. so, till the judgement that yourself arise, you live in this, and dwell in lovers’ eyes. it was also extremely suggestive to note how here as elsewhere shakespeare promised willie hughes immortality in a form that appealed to men’s eyes—that is to say, in a spectacular form, in a play that is to be looked at. for two weeks i worked hard at the sonnets, hardly ever going out, and refusing all invitations. every day i seemed to be discovering something new, and willie hughes became to me a kind of spiritual presence, an ever-dominant personality. i could almost fancy that i saw him standing in the shadow of my room, so well had shakespeare drawn him, with his golden hair, his tender flower-like grace, his dreamy deep-sunken eyes, his delicate mobile limbs, and his white lily hands. his very name fascinated me. willie hughes! willie hughes! how musically it sounded! yes; who else but he could have been the master-mistress of shakespeare’s passion, <UNK> the lord of his love to whom he was bound in vassalage, <UNK> the delicate minion of pleasure, <UNK> the rose of the whole world, <UNK> the herald of the spring <UNK> decked in the proud livery of youth, <UNK> the lovely boy whom it was sweet music to hear, <UNK> and whose beauty was the very raiment of shakespeare’s heart, <UNK> as it was the keystone of his dramatic power? how bitter now seemed the whole tragedy of his desertion and his shame!—shame that he made sweet and lovely <UNK> by the mere magic of his personality, but that was none the less shame. yet as shakespeare forgave him, should not we forgive him also? i did not care to pry into the mystery of his sin. his abandonment of shakespeare’s theatre was a different matter, and i investigated it at great length. finally i came to the conclusion that cyril graham had been wrong in regarding the rival dramatist of the <UNK> sonnet as chapman. it was obviously marlowe who was alluded to. at the time the sonnets were written, such an expression as ‘the proud full sail of his great verse’ could not have been used of chapman’s work, however applicable it might have been to the style of his later jacobean plays. no: marlowe was clearly the rival dramatist of whom shakespeare spoke in such laudatory terms; and that affable familiar ghost which nightly gulls him with intelligence, was the mephistopheles of his _doctor faustus_. no doubt, marlowe was fascinated by the beauty and grace of the boy-actor, and lured him away from the blackfriars theatre, that he might play the gaveston of his _edward ii_. that shakespeare had the legal right to retain willie hughes in his own company is evident from sonnet lxxxvii., where he says:— farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing, and like enough thou know’st thy estimate: the _charter of thy worth_ gives thee releasing; my _bonds_ in thee are all determinate. for how do i hold thee but by thy granting? and for that riches where is my deserving? the cause of this fair gift in me is wanting, _and so my patent back again is swerving_. thyself thou gayest, thy own worth then not knowing, or me, to whom thou gavest it, else mistaking; so thy great gift, upon misprision growing, comes home again, on better judgement making. thus have i had thee, as a dream doth flatter, in sleep a king, but waking no such matter. but him whom he could not hold by love, he would not hold by force. willie hughes became a member of lord pembroke’s company, and, perhaps in the open yard of the red bull tavern, played the part of king edward’s delicate minion. on marlowe’s death, he seems to have returned to shakespeare, who, whatever his fellow-partners may have thought of the matter, was not slow to forgive the wilfulness and treachery of the young actor. how well, too, had shakespeare drawn the temperament of the stage-player! willie hughes was one of those that do not do the thing they most do show, who, moving others, are themselves as stone. he could act love, but could not feel it, could mimic passion without realising it. in many’s looks the false heart’s history is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange, but with willie hughes it was not so. ‘heaven,’ says shakespeare, in a sonnet of mad idolatry— heaven in thy creation did decree that in thy face sweet love should ever dwell; whate’er thy thoughts or thy heart’s workings be, thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell. in his ‘inconstant mind’ and his ‘false heart,’ it was easy to recognise the insincerity and treachery that somehow seem inseparable from the artistic nature, as in his love of praise that desire for immediate recognition that characterises all actors. and yet, more fortunate in this than other actors, willie hughes was to know something of immortality. inseparably connected with shakespeare’s plays, he was to live in them. your name from hence immortal life shall have, though i, once gone, to all the world must die: the earth can yield me but a common grave, when you entombed in men’s eyes shall lie. your monument shall be my gentle verse, which eyes not yet created shall o’er-read, and tongues to be your being shall rehearse, when all the breathers of this world are dead. there were endless allusions, also, to willie hughes’s power over his audience—the ‘gazers,’ as shakespeare calls them; but perhaps the most perfect description of his wonderful mastery over dramatic art was in _a lover’s complaint_, where shakespeare says of him:— in him a plenitude of subtle matter, applied to cautels, all strange forms receives, of burning blushes, or of weeping water, or swooning paleness; and he takes and leaves, in either’s aptness, as it best deceives, to blush at speeches rank, to weep at woes, or to turn white and swoon at tragic shows. * * * * * so on the tip of his subduing tongue, all kind of arguments and questions deep, all replication prompt and reason strong, for his advantage still did wake and sleep, to make the weeper laugh, the laugher weep. he had the dialect and the different skill, catching all passions in his craft of will. once i thought that i had really found willie hughes in elizabethan literature. in a wonderfully graphic account of the last days of the great earl of essex, his chaplain, thomas knell, tells us that the night before the earl died, ‘he called william hewes, which was his musician, to play upon the virginals and to sing. “play,” said he, “my song, will hewes, and i will sing it to myself.” so he did it most joyfully, not as the howling swan, which, still looking down, waileth her end, but as a sweet lark, lifting up his hands and casting up his eyes to his god, with this mounted the crystal skies, and reached with his unwearied tongue the top of highest heavens.’ surely the boy who played on the virginals to the dying father of sidney’s stella was none other but the will hews to whom shakespeare dedicated the sonnets, and who he tells us was himself sweet ‘music to hear.’ yet lord essex died in <UNK> when shakespeare himself was but twelve years of age. it was impossible that his musician could have been the mr. w. h. of the sonnets. perhaps shakespeare’s young friend was the son of the player upon the virginals? it was at least something to have discovered that will hews was an elizabethan name. indeed the name hews seemed to have been closely connected with music and the stage. the first english actress was the lovely margaret hews, whom prince rupert so madly loved. what more probable than that between her and lord essex’s musician had come the boy-actor of shakespeare’s plays? but the proofs, the links—where were they? alas! i could not find them. it seemed to me that i was always on the brink of absolute verification, but that i could never really attain to it. from willie hughes’s life i soon passed to thoughts of his death. i used to wonder what had been his end. perhaps he had been one of those english actors who in <UNK> went across sea to germany and played before the great duke henry julius of brunswick, himself a dramatist of no mean order, and at the court of that strange elector of brandenburg, who was so enamoured of beauty that he was said to have bought for his weight in amber the young son of a travelling greek merchant, and to have given pageants in honour of his slave all through that dreadful famine year of <UNK> when the people died of hunger in the very streets of the town, and for the space of seven months there was no rain. we know at any rate that _romeo and juliet_ was brought out at dresden in <UNK> along with _hamlet_ and _king lear_, and it was surely to none other than willie hughes that in <UNK> the death-mask of shakespeare was brought by the hand of one of the suite of the english ambassador, pale token of the passing away of the great poet who had so dearly loved him. indeed there would have been something peculiarly fitting in the idea that the boy-actor, whose beauty had been so vital an element in the realism and romance of shakespeare’s art, should have been the first to have brought to germany the seed of the new culture, and was in his way the precursor of that _aufklärung_ or illumination of the eighteenth century, that splendid movement which, though begun by lessing and herder, and brought to its full and perfect issue by goethe, was in no small part helped on by another actor—friedrich schroeder—who awoke the popular consciousness, and by means of the feigned passions and mimetic methods of the stage showed the intimate, the vital, connection between life and literature. if this was so—and there was certainly no evidence against it—it was not improbable that willie hughes was one of those english comedians (_mimæ quidam ex britannia_, as the old chronicle calls them), who were slain at nuremberg in a sudden uprising of the people, and were secretly buried in a little vineyard outside the city by some young men ‘who had found pleasure in their performances, and of whom some had sought to be instructed in the mysteries of the new art.’ certainly no more fitting place could there be for him to whom shakespeare said, ‘thou art all my art,’ than this little vineyard outside the city walls. for was it not from the sorrows of dionysos that tragedy sprang? was not the light laughter of comedy, with its careless merriment and quick replies, first heard on the lips of the sicilian vine-dressers? nay, did not the purple and red stain of the wine-froth on face and limbs give the first suggestion of the charm and fascination of disguise—the desire for self-concealment, the sense of the value of objectivity thus showing itself in the rude beginnings of the art? at any rate, wherever he lay—whether in the little vineyard at the gate of the gothic town, or in some dim london churchyard amidst the roar and bustle of our great city—no gorgeous monument marked his resting-place. his true tomb, as shakespeare saw, was the poet’s verse, his true monument the permanence of the drama. so had it been with others whose beauty had given a new creative impulse to their age. the ivory body of the bithynian slave rots in the green ooze of the nile, and on the yellow hills of the cerameicus is strewn the dust of the young athenian; but antinous lives in sculpture, and charmides in philosophy. chapter iii after three weeks had elapsed, i determined to make a strong appeal to erskine to do justice to the memory of cyril graham, and to give to the world his marvellous interpretation of the sonnets—the only interpretation that thoroughly explained the problem. i have not any copy of my letter, i regret to say, nor have i been able to lay my hand upon the original; but i remember that i went over the whole ground, and covered sheets of paper with passionate reiteration of the arguments and proofs that my study had suggested to me. it seemed to me that i was not merely restoring cyril graham to his proper place in literary history, but rescuing the honour of shakespeare himself from the tedious memory of a commonplace intrigue. i put into the letter all my enthusiasm. i put into the letter all my faith. no sooner, in fact, had i sent it off than a curious reaction came over me. it seemed to me that i had given away my capacity for belief in the willie hughes theory of the sonnets, that something had gone out of me, as it were, and that i was perfectly indifferent to the whole subject. what was it that had happened? it is difficult to say. perhaps, by finding perfect expression for a passion, i had exhausted the passion itself. emotional forces, like the forces of physical life, have their positive limitations. perhaps the mere effort to convert any one to a theory involves some form of renunciation of the power of credence. perhaps i was simply tired of the whole thing, and, my enthusiasm having burnt out, my reason was left to its own unimpassioned judgment. however it came about, and i cannot pretend to explain it, there was no doubt that willie hughes suddenly became to me a mere myth, an idle dream, the boyish fancy of a young man who, like most ardent spirits, was more anxious to convince others than to be himself convinced. as i had said some very unjust and bitter things to erskine in my letter, i determined to go and see him at once, and to make my apologies to him for my behaviour. accordingly, the next morning i drove down to birdcage walk, and found erskine sitting in his library, with the forged picture of willie hughes in front of him. ‘my dear erskine!’ i cried, ‘i have come to apologise to you.’ ‘to apologise to me?’ he said. ‘what for?’ ‘for my letter,’ i answered. ‘you have nothing to regret in your letter,’ he said. ‘on the contrary, you have done me the greatest service in your power. you have shown me that cyril graham’s theory is perfectly sound.’ ‘you don’t mean to say that you believe in willie hughes?’ i exclaimed. ‘why not?’ he rejoined. ‘you have proved the thing to me. do you think i cannot estimate the value of evidence?’ ‘but there is no evidence at all,’ i groaned, sinking into a chair. ‘when i wrote to you i was under the influence of a perfectly silly enthusiasm. i had been touched by the story of cyril graham’s death, fascinated by his romantic theory, enthralled by the wonder and novelty of the whole idea. i see now that the theory is based on a delusion. the only evidence for the existence of willie hughes is that picture in front of you, and the picture is a forgery. don’t be carried away by mere sentiment in this matter. whatever romance may have to say about the willie hughes theory, reason is dead against it.’ ‘i don’t understand you,’ said erskine, looking at me in amazement. ‘why, you yourself have convinced me by your letter that willie hughes is an absolute reality. why have you changed your mind? or is all that you have been saying to me merely a joke?’ ‘i cannot explain it to you,’ i rejoined, ‘but i see now that there is really nothing to be said in favour of cyril graham’s interpretation. the sonnets are addressed to lord pembroke. for heaven’s sake don’t waste your time in a foolish attempt to discover a young elizabethan actor who never existed, and to make a phantom puppet the centre of the great cycle of shakespeare’s sonnets.’ ‘i see that you don’t understand the theory,’ he replied. ‘my dear erskine,’ i cried, ‘not understand it! why, i feel as if i had invented it. surely my letter shows you that i not merely went into the whole matter, but that i contributed proofs of every kind. the one flaw in the theory is that it presupposes the existence of the person whose existence is the subject of dispute. if we grant that there was in shakespeare’s company a young actor of the name of willie hughes, it is not difficult to make him the object of the sonnets. but as we know that there was no actor of this name in the company of the globe theatre, it is idle to pursue the investigation further.’ ‘but that is exactly what we don’t know,’ said erskine. ‘it is quite true that his name does not occur in the list given in the first folio; but, as cyril pointed out, that is rather a proof in favour of the existence of willie hughes than against it, if we remember his treacherous desertion of shakespeare for a rival dramatist.’ we argued the matter over for hours, but nothing that i could say could make erskine surrender his faith in cyril graham’s interpretation. he told me that he intended to devote his life to proving the theory, and that he was determined to do justice to cyril graham’s memory. i entreated him, laughed at him, begged of him, but it was of no use. finally we parted, not exactly in anger, but certainly with a shadow between us. he thought me shallow, i thought him foolish. when i called on him again his servant told me that he had gone to germany. two years afterwards, as i was going into my club, the hall-porter handed me a letter with a foreign postmark. it was from erskine, and written at the hôtel d’angleterre, cannes. when i had read it i was filled with horror, though i did not quite believe that he would be so mad as to carry his resolve into execution. the gist of the letter was that he had tried in every way to verify the willie hughes theory, and had failed, and that as cyril graham had given his life for this theory, he himself had determined to give his own life also to the same cause. the concluding words of the letter were these: ‘i still believe in willie hughes; and by the time you receive this, i shall have died by my own hand for willie hughes’s sake: for his sake, and for the sake of cyril graham, whom i drove to his death by my shallow scepticism and ignorant lack of faith. the truth was once revealed to you, and you rejected it. it comes to you now stained with the blood of two lives,—do not turn away from it.’ it was a horrible moment. i felt sick with misery, and yet i could not believe it. to die for one’s theological beliefs is the worst use a man can make of his life, but to die for a literary theory! it seemed impossible. i looked at the date. the letter was a week old. some unfortunate chance had prevented my going to the club for several days, or i might have got it in time to save him. perhaps it was not too late. i drove off to my rooms, packed up my things, and started by the night-mail from charing cross. the journey was intolerable. i thought i would never arrive. as soon as i did i drove to the hôtel l’angleterre. they told me that erskine had been buried two days before in the english cemetery. there was something horribly grotesque about the whole tragedy. i said all kinds of wild things, and the people in the hall looked curiously at me. suddenly lady erskine, in deep mourning, passed across the vestibule. when she saw me she came up to me, murmured something about her poor son, and burst into tears. i led her into her sitting-room. an elderly gentleman was there waiting for her. it was the english doctor. we talked a great deal about erskine, but i said nothing about his motive for committing suicide. it was evident that he had not told his mother anything about the reason that had driven him to so fatal, so mad an act. finally lady erskine rose and said, george left you something as a memento. it was a thing he prized very much. i will get it for you. as soon as she had left the room i turned to the doctor and said, ‘what a dreadful shock it must have been to lady erskine! i wonder that she bears it as well as she does.’ ‘oh, she knew for months past that it was coming,’ he answered. ‘knew it for months past!’ i cried. ‘but why didn’t she stop him? why didn’t she have him watched? he must have been mad.’ the doctor stared at me. ‘i don’t know what you mean,’ he said. ‘well,’ i cried, ‘if a mother knows that her son is going to commit suicide—’ ‘suicide!’ he answered. ‘poor erskine did not commit suicide. he died of consumption. he came here to die. the moment i saw him i knew that there was no hope. one lung was almost gone, and the other was very much affected. three days before he died he asked me was there any hope. i told him frankly that there was none, and that he had only a few days to live. he wrote some letters, and was quite resigned, retaining his senses to the last.’ at that moment lady erskine entered the room with the fatal picture of willie hughes in her hand. ‘when george was dying he begged me to give you this,’ she said. as i took it from her, her tears fell on my hand. the picture hangs now in my library, where it is very much admired by my artistic friends. they have decided that it is not a clouet, but an oudry. i have never cared to tell them its true history. but sometimes, when i look at it, i think that there is really a great deal to be said for the willie hughes theory of shakespeare’s sonnets.

<|EndOfText|>

first act scene _morning-room of lord windermere’s house in carlton house terrace_. _doors c. and r. bureau with books and papers r._ _sofa with small tea-table l._ _window opening on to terrace l._ _table r._ [lady windermere _is at table r._, _arranging roses in a blue bowl_.] [_enter_ parker.] parker. is your ladyship at home this afternoon? lady windermere. yes—who has called? parker. lord darlington, my lady. lady windermere. [_hesitates for a moment_.] show him up—and i’m at home to any one who calls. parker. yes, my lady. [_exit c._] lady windermere. it’s best for me to see him before to-night. i’m glad he’s come. [_enter_ parker _c._] parker. lord darlington, [_enter_ lord darlington _c._] [_exit_ parker.] lord darlington. how do you do, lady windermere? lady windermere. how do you do, lord darlington? no, i can’t shake hands with you. my hands are all wet with these roses. aren’t they lovely? they came up from selby this morning. lord darlington. they are quite perfect. [_sees a fan lying on the table_.] and what a wonderful fan! may i look at it? lady windermere. do. pretty, isn’t it! it’s got my name on it, and everything. i have only just seen it myself. it’s my husband’s birthday present to me. you know to-day is my birthday? lord darlington. no? is it really? lady windermere. yes, i’m of age to-day. quite an important day in my life, isn’t it? that is why i am giving this party to-night. do sit down. [_still arranging flowers_.] lord darlington. [_sitting down_.] i wish i had known it was your birthday, lady windermere. i would have covered the whole street in front of your house with flowers for you to walk on. they are made for you. [_a short pause_.] lady windermere. lord darlington, you annoyed me last night at the foreign office. i am afraid you are going to annoy me again. lord darlington. i, lady windermere? [_enter_ parker _and_ footman _c._, _with tray and tea things_.] lady windermere. put it there, parker. that will do. [_wipes her hands with her pocket-handkerchief_, _goes to tea-table_, _and sits down_.] won’t you come over, lord darlington? [_exit_ parker _c._] lord darlington. [_takes chair and goes across l.c._] i am quite miserable, lady windermere. you must tell me what i did. [_sits down at table l._] lady windermere. well, you kept paying me elaborate compliments the whole evening. lord darlington. [_smiling_.] ah, nowadays we are all of us so hard up, that the only pleasant things to pay _are_ compliments. they’re the only things we _can_ pay. lady windermere. [_shaking her head_.] no, i am talking very seriously. you mustn’t laugh, i am quite serious. i don’t like compliments, and i don’t see why a man should think he is pleasing a woman enormously when he says to her a whole heap of things that he doesn’t mean. lord darlington. ah, but i did mean them. [_takes tea which she offers him_.] lady windermere. [_gravely_.] i hope not. i should be sorry to have to quarrel with you, lord darlington. i like you very much, you know that. but i shouldn’t like you at all if i thought you were what most other men are. believe me, you are better than most other men, and i sometimes think you pretend to be worse. lord darlington. we all have our little vanities, lady windermere. lady windermere. why do you make that your special one? [_still seated at table l._] lord darlington. [_still seated l.c._] oh, nowadays so many conceited people go about society pretending to be good, that i think it shows rather a sweet and modest disposition to pretend to be bad. besides, there is this to be said. if you pretend to be good, the world takes you very seriously. if you pretend to be bad, it doesn’t. such is the astounding stupidity of optimism. lady windermere. don’t you _want_ the world to take you seriously then, lord darlington? lord darlington. no, not the world. who are the people the world takes seriously? all the dull people one can think of, from the bishops down to the bores. i should like _you_ to take me very seriously, lady windermere, _you_ more than any one else in life. lady windermere. why—why me? lord darlington. [_after a slight hesitation_.] because i think we might be great friends. let us be great friends. you may want a friend some day. lady windermere. why do you say that? lord darlington. oh!—we all want friends at times. lady windermere. i think we’re very good friends already, lord darlington. we can always remain so as long as you don’t— lord darlington. don’t what? lady windermere. don’t spoil it by saying extravagant silly things to me. you think i am a puritan, i suppose? well, i have something of the puritan in me. i was brought up like that. i am glad of it. my mother died when i was a mere child. i lived always with lady julia, my father’s elder sister, you know. she was stern to me, but she taught me what the world is forgetting, the difference that there is between what is right and what is wrong. _she_ allowed of no compromise. _i_ allow of none. lord darlington. my dear lady windermere! lady windermere. [_leaning back on the sofa_.] you look on me as being behind the age.—well, i am! i should be sorry to be on the same level as an age like this. lord darlington. you think the age very bad? lady windermere. yes. nowadays people seem to look on life as a speculation. it is not a speculation. it is a sacrament. its ideal is love. its purification is sacrifice. lord darlington. [_smiling_.] oh, anything is better than being sacrificed! lady windermere. [_leaning forward_.] don’t say that. lord darlington. i do say it. i feel it—i know it. [_enter_ parker _c._] parker. the men want to know if they are to put the carpets on the terrace for to-night, my lady? lady windermere. you don’t think it will rain, lord darlington, do you? lord darlington. i won’t hear of its raining on your birthday! lady windermere. tell them to do it at once, parker. [_exit_ parker _c._] lord darlington. [_still seated_.] do you think then—of course i am only putting an imaginary instance—do you think that in the case of a young married couple, say about two years married, if the husband suddenly becomes the intimate friend of a woman of—well, more than doubtful character—is always calling upon her, lunching with her, and probably paying her bills—do you think that the wife should not console herself? lady windermere. [_frowning_.] console herself? lord darlington. yes, i think she should—i think she has the right. lady windermere. because the husband is vile—should the wife be vile also? lord darlington. vileness is a terrible word, lady windermere. lady windermere. it is a terrible thing, lord darlington. lord darlington. do you know i am afraid that good people do a great deal of harm in this world. certainly the greatest harm they do is that they make badness of such extraordinary importance. it is absurd to divide people into good and bad. people are either charming or tedious. i take the side of the charming, and you, lady windermere, can’t help belonging to them. lady windermere. now, lord darlington. [_rising and crossing r._, _front of him_.] don’t stir, i am merely going to finish my flowers. [_goes to table r.c._] lord darlington. [_rising and moving chair_.] and i must say i think you are very hard on modern life, lady windermere. of course there is much against it, i admit. most women, for instance, nowadays, are rather mercenary. lady windermere. don’t talk about such people. lord darlington. well then, setting aside mercenary people, who, of course, are dreadful, do you think seriously that women who have committed what the world calls a fault should never be forgiven? lady windermere. [_standing at table_.] i think they should never be forgiven. lord darlington. and men? do you think that there should be the same laws for men as there are for women? lady windermere. certainly! lord darlington. i think life too complex a thing to be settled by these hard and fast rules. lady windermere. if we had ‘these hard and fast rules,’ we should find life much more simple. lord darlington. you allow of no exceptions? lady windermere. none! lord darlington. ah, what a fascinating puritan you are, lady windermere! lady windermere. the adjective was unnecessary, lord darlington. lord darlington. i couldn’t help it. i can resist everything except temptation. lady windermere. you have the modern affectation of weakness. lord darlington. [_looking at her_.] it’s only an affectation, lady windermere. [_enter_ parker _c._] parker. the duchess of berwick and lady agatha carlisle. [_enter the_ duchess of berwick and lady agatha carlisle _c._] [_exit_ parker _c._] duchess of berwick. [_coming down c._, _and shaking hands_.] dear margaret, i am so pleased to see you. you remember agatha, don’t you? [_crossing l.c._] how do you do, lord darlington? i won’t let you know my daughter, you are far too wicked. lord darlington. don’t say that, duchess. as a wicked man i am a complete failure. why, there are lots of people who say i have never really done anything wrong in the whole course of my life. of course they only say it behind my back. duchess of berwick. isn’t he dreadful? agatha, this is lord darlington. mind you don’t believe a word he says. [lord darlington _crosses r.c._] no, no tea, thank you, dear. [_crosses and sits on sofa_.] we have just had tea at lady markby’s. such bad tea, too. it was quite undrinkable. i wasn’t at all surprised. her own son-in-law supplies it. agatha is looking forward so much to your ball to-night, dear margaret. lady windermere. [_seated l.c._] oh, you mustn’t think it is going to be a ball, duchess. it is only a dance in honour of my birthday. a small and early. lord darlington. [_standing l.c._] very small, very early, and very select, duchess. duchess of berwick. [_on sofa l._] of course it’s going to be select. but we know _that_, dear margaret, about _your_ house. it is really one of the few houses in london where i can take agatha, and where i feel perfectly secure about dear berwick. i don’t know what society is coming to. the most dreadful people seem to go everywhere. they certainly come to my parties—the men get quite furious if one doesn’t ask them. really, some one should make a stand against it. lady windermere. _i_ will, duchess. i will have no one in my house about whom there is any scandal. lord darlington. [_r.c._] oh, don’t say that, lady windermere. i should never be admitted! [_sitting_.] duchess of berwick. oh, men don’t matter. with women it is different. we’re good. some of us are, at least. but we are positively getting elbowed into the corner. our husbands would really forget our existence if we didn’t nag at them from time to time, just to remind them that we have a perfect legal right to do so. lord darlington. it’s a curious thing, duchess, about the game of marriage—a game, by the way, that is going out of fashion—the wives hold all the honours, and invariably lose the odd trick. duchess of berwick. the odd trick? is that the husband, lord darlington? lord darlington. it would be rather a good name for the modern husband. duchess of berwick. dear lord darlington, how thoroughly depraved you are! lady windermere. lord darlington is trivial. lord darlington. ah, don’t say that, lady windermere. lady windermere. why do you _talk_ so trivially about life, then? lord darlington. because i think that life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about it. [_moves up c._] duchess of berwick. what does he mean? do, as a concession to my poor wits, lord darlington, just explain to me what you really mean. lord darlington. [_coming down back of table_.] i think i had better not, duchess. nowadays to be intelligible is to be found out. good-bye! [_shakes hands with_ duchess.] and now—[_goes up stage_] lady windermere, good-bye. i may come to-night, mayn’t i? do let me come. lady windermere. [_standing up stage with_ lord darlington.] yes, certainly. but you are not to say foolish, insincere things to people. lord darlington. [_smiling_.] ah! you are beginning to reform me. it is a dangerous thing to reform any one, lady windermere. [_bows_, _and exit c._] duchess of berwick. [_who has risen_, _goes c._] what a charming, wicked creature! i like him so much. i’m quite delighted he’s gone! how sweet you’re looking! where _do_ you get your gowns? and now i must tell you how sorry i am for you, dear margaret. [_crosses to sofa and sits with_ lady windermere.] agatha, darling! lady agatha. yes, mamma. [_rises_.] duchess of berwick. will you go and look over the photograph album that i see there? lady agatha. yes, mamma. [_goes to table up l._] duchess of berwick. dear girl! she is so fond of photographs of switzerland. such a pure taste, i think. but i really am so sorry for you, margaret. lady windermere. [_smiling_.] why, duchess? duchess of berwick. oh, on account of that horrid woman. she dresses so well, too, which makes it much worse, sets such a dreadful example. augustus—you know my disreputable brother—such a trial to us all—well, augustus is completely infatuated about her. it is quite scandalous, for she is absolutely inadmissible into society. many a woman has a past, but i am told that she has at least a dozen, and that they all fit. lady windermere. whom are you talking about, duchess? duchess of berwick. about mrs. erlynne. lady windermere. mrs. erlynne? i never heard of her, duchess. and what _has_ she to do with me? duchess of berwick. my poor child! agatha, darling! lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. will you go out on the terrace and look at the sunset? lady agatha. yes, mamma. [_exit through window_, _l._] duchess of berwick. sweet girl! so devoted to sunsets! shows such refinement of feeling, does it not? after all, there is nothing like nature, is there? lady windermere. but what is it, duchess? why do you talk to me about this person? duchess of berwick. don’t you really know? i assure you we’re all so distressed about it. only last night at dear lady jansen’s every one was saying how extraordinary it was that, of all men in london, windermere should behave in such a way. lady windermere. my husband—what has _he_ got to do with any woman of that kind? duchess of berwick. ah, what indeed, dear? that is the point. he goes to see her continually, and stops for hours at a time, and while he is there she is not at home to any one. not that many ladies call on her, dear, but she has a great many disreputable men friends—my own brother particularly, as i told you—and that is what makes it so dreadful about windermere. we looked upon _him_ as being such a model husband, but i am afraid there is no doubt about it. my dear nieces—you know the saville girls, don’t you?—such nice domestic creatures—plain, dreadfully plain, but so good—well, they’re always at the window doing fancy work, and making ugly things for the poor, which i think so useful of them in these dreadful socialistic days, and this terrible woman has taken a house in curzon street, right opposite them—such a respectable street, too! i don’t know what we’re coming to! and they tell me that windermere goes there four and five times a week—they _see_ him. they can’t help it—and although they never talk scandal, they—well, of course—they remark on it to every one. and the worst of it all is that i have been told that this woman has got a great deal of money out of somebody, for it seems that she came to london six months ago without anything at all to speak of, and now she has this charming house in mayfair, drives her ponies in the park every afternoon and all—well, all—since she has known poor dear windermere. lady windermere. oh, i can’t believe it! duchess of berwick. but it’s quite true, my dear. the whole of london knows it. that is why i felt it was better to come and talk to you, and advise you to take windermere away at once to homburg or to aix, where he’ll have something to amuse him, and where you can watch him all day long. i assure you, my dear, that on several occasions after i was first married, i had to pretend to be very ill, and was obliged to drink the most unpleasant mineral waters, merely to get berwick out of town. he was so extremely susceptible. though i am bound to say he never gave away any large sums of money to anybody. he is far too high-principled for that! lady windermere. [_interrupting_.] duchess, duchess, it’s impossible! [_rising and crossing stage to c._] we are only married two years. our child is but six months old. [_sits in chair r. of l. table_.] duchess of berwick. ah, the dear pretty baby! how is the little darling? is it a boy or a girl? i hope a girl—ah, no, i remember it’s a boy! i’m so sorry. boys are so wicked. my boy is excessively immoral. you wouldn’t believe at what hours he comes home. and he’s only left oxford a few months—i really don’t know what they teach them there. lady windermere. are _all_ men bad? duchess of berwick. oh, all of them, my dear, all of them, without any exception. and they never grow any better. men become old, but they never become good. lady windermere. windermere and i married for love. duchess of berwick. yes, we begin like that. it was only berwick’s brutal and incessant threats of suicide that made me accept him at all, and before the year was out, he was running after all kinds of petticoats, every colour, every shape, every material. in fact, before the honeymoon was over, i caught him winking at my maid, a most pretty, respectable girl. i dismissed her at once without a character.—no, i remember i passed her on to my sister; poor dear sir george is so short-sighted, i thought it wouldn’t matter. but it did, though—it was most unfortunate. [_rises_.] and now, my dear child, i must go, as we are dining out. and mind you don’t take this little aberration of windermere’s too much to heart. just take him abroad, and he’ll come back to you all right. lady windermere. come back to me? [_c._] duchess of berwick. [_l.c._] yes, dear, these wicked women get our husbands away from us, but they always come back, slightly damaged, of course. and don’t make scenes, men hate them! lady windermere. it is very kind of you, duchess, to come and tell me all this. but i can’t believe that my husband is untrue to me. duchess of berwick. pretty child! i was like that once. now i know that all men are monsters. [lady windermere _rings bell_.] the only thing to do is to feed the wretches well. a good cook does wonders, and that i know you have. my dear margaret, you are not going to cry? lady windermere. you needn’t be afraid, duchess, i never cry. duchess of berwick. that’s quite right, dear. crying is the refuge of plain women but the ruin of pretty ones. agatha, darling! lady agatha. [_entering l._] yes, mamma. [_stands back of table l.c._] duchess of berwick. come and bid good-bye to lady windermere, and thank her for your charming visit. [_coming down again_.] and by the way, i must thank you for sending a card to mr. hopper—he’s that rich young australian people are taking such notice of just at present. his father made a great fortune by selling some kind of food in circular tins—most palatable, i believe—i fancy it is the thing the servants always refuse to eat. but the son is quite interesting. i think he’s attracted by dear agatha’s clever talk. of course, we should be very sorry to lose her, but i think that a mother who doesn’t part with a daughter every season has no real affection. we’re coming to-night, dear. [parker _opens c. doors_.] and remember my advice, take the poor fellow out of town at once, it is the only thing to do. good-bye, once more; come, agatha. [_exeunt_ duchess _and_ lady agatha _c._] lady windermere. how horrible! i understand now what lord darlington meant by the imaginary instance of the couple not two years married. oh! it can’t be true—she spoke of enormous sums of money paid to this woman. i know where arthur keeps his bank book—in one of the drawers of that desk. i might find out by that. i _will_ find out. [_opens drawer_.] no, it is some hideous mistake. [_rises and goes c._] some silly scandal! he loves _me_! he loves _me_! but why should i not look? i am his wife, i have a right to look! [_returns to bureau_, _takes out book and examines it page by page_, _smiles and gives a sigh of relief_.] i knew it! there is not a word of truth in this stupid story. [_puts book back in dranver_. _as the does so_, _starts and takes out another book_.] a second book—private—locked! [_tries to open it_, _but fails_. _sees paper knife on bureau_, _and with it cuts cover from book_. _begins to start at the first page_.] ‘mrs. <UNK> <UNK> <UNK> oh! it is true! it is true! how horrible! [_throws book on floor_.] [_enter_ lord windermere _c._] lord windermere. well, dear, has the fan been sent home yet? [_going r.c._ _sees book_.] margaret, you have cut open my bank book. you have no right to do such a thing! lady windermere. you think it wrong that you are found out, don’t you? lord windermere. i think it wrong that a wife should spy on her husband. lady windermere. i did not spy on you. i never knew of this woman’s existence till half an hour ago. some one who pitied me was kind enough to tell me what every one in london knows already—your daily visits to curzon street, your mad infatuation, the monstrous sums of money you squander on this infamous woman! [_crossing l._] lord windermere. margaret! don’t talk like that of mrs. erlynne, you don’t know how unjust it is! lady windermere. [_turning to him_.] you are very jealous of mrs. erlynne’s honour. i wish you had been as jealous of mine. lord windermere. your honour is untouched, margaret. you don’t think for a moment that—[_puts book back into desk_.] lady windermere. i think that you spend your money strangely. that is all. oh, don’t imagine i mind about the money. as far as i am concerned, you may squander everything we have. but what i _do_ mind is that you who have loved me, you who have taught me to love you, should pass from the love that is given to the love that is bought. oh, it’s horrible! [_sits on sofa_.] and it is i who feel degraded! _you_ don’t feel anything. i feel stained, utterly stained. you can’t realise how hideous the last six months seems to me now—every kiss you have given me is tainted in my memory. lord windermere. [_crossing to her_.] don’t say that, margaret. i never loved any one in the whole world but you. lady windermere. [_rises_.] who is this woman, then? why do you take a house for her? lord windermere. i did not take a house for her. lady windermere. you gave her the money to do it, which is the same thing. lord windermere. margaret, as far as i have known mrs. erlynne— lady windermere. is there a mr. erlynne—or is he a myth? lord windermere. her husband died many years ago. she is alone in the world. lady windermere. no relations? [_a pause_.] lord windermere. none. lady windermere. rather curious, isn’t it? [_l._] lord windermere. [_l.c._] margaret, i was saying to you—and i beg you to listen to me—that as far as i have known mrs. erlynne, she has conducted herself well. if years ago— lady windermere. oh! [_crossing r.c._] i don’t want details about her life! lord windermere. [_c._] i am not going to give you any details about her life. i tell you simply this—mrs. erlynne was once honoured, loved, respected. she was well born, she had position—she lost everything—threw it away, if you like. that makes it all the more bitter. misfortunes one can endure—they come from outside, they are accidents. but to suffer for one’s own faults—ah!—there is the sting of life. it was twenty years ago, too. she was little more than a girl then. she had been a wife for even less time than you have. lady windermere. i am not interested in her—and—you should not mention this woman and me in the same breath. it is an error of taste. [_sitting r. at desk_.] lord windermere. margaret, you could save this woman. she wants to get back into society, and she wants you to help her. [_crossing to her_.] lady windermere. me! lord windermere. yes, you. lady windermere. how impertinent of her! [_a pause_.] lord windermere. margaret, i came to ask you a great favour, and i still ask it of you, though you have discovered what i had intended you should never have known that i have given mrs. erlynne a large sum of money. i want you to send her an invitation for our party to-night. [_standing l. of her_.] lady windermere. you are mad! [_rises_.] lord windermere. i entreat you. people may chatter about her, do chatter about her, of course, but they don’t know anything definite against her. she has been to several houses—not to houses where you would go, i admit, but still to houses where women who are in what is called society nowadays do go. that does not content her. she wants you to receive her once. lady windermere. as a triumph for her, i suppose? lord windermere. no; but because she knows that you are a good woman—and that if she comes here once she will have a chance of a happier, a surer life than she has had. she will make no further effort to know you. won’t you help a woman who is trying to get back? lady windermere. no! if a woman really repents, she never wishes to return to the society that has made or seen her ruin. lord windermere. i beg of you. lady windermere. [_crossing to door r._] i am going to dress for dinner, and don’t mention the subject again this evening. arthur [_going to him c._], you fancy because i have no father or mother that i am alone in the world, and that you can treat me as you choose. you are wrong, i have friends, many friends. lord windermere. [_l.c._] margaret, you are talking foolishly, recklessly. i won’t argue with you, but i insist upon your asking mrs. erlynne to-night. lady windermere. [_r.c._] i shall do nothing of the kind. [_crossing l.c._] lord windermere. you refuse? [_c._] lady windermere. absolutely! lord windermere. ah, margaret, do this for my sake; it is her last chance. lady windermere. what has that to do with me? lord windermere. how hard good women are! lady windermere. how weak bad men are! lord windermere. margaret, none of us men may be good enough for the women we marry—that is quite true—but you don’t imagine i would ever—oh, the suggestion is monstrous! lady windermere. why should _you_ be different from other men? i am told that there is hardly a husband in london who does not waste his life over _some_ shameful passion. lord windermere. i am not one of them. lady windermere. i am not sure of that! lord windermere. you are sure in your heart. but don’t make chasm after chasm between us. god knows the last few minutes have thrust us wide enough apart. sit down and write the card. lady windermere. nothing in the whole world would induce me. lord windermere. [_crossing to bureau_.] then i will! [_rings electric bell_, _sits and writes card_.] lady windermere. you are going to invite this woman? [_crossing to him_.] lord windermere. yes. [_pause_. _enter_ parker.] parker! parker. yes, my lord. [_comes down l.c._] lord windermere. have this note sent to mrs. erlynne at no. <UNK> curzon street. [_crossing to l.c. and giving note to_ parker.] there is no answer! [_exit_ parker _c._] lady windermere. arthur, if that woman comes here, i shall insult her. lord windermere. margaret, don’t say that. lady windermere. i mean it. lord windermere. child, if you did such a thing, there’s not a woman in london who wouldn’t pity you. lady windermere. there is not a _good_ woman in london who would not applaud me. we have been too lax. we must make an example. i propose to begin to-night. [_picking up fan_.] yes, you gave me this fan to-day; it was your birthday present. if that woman crosses my threshold, i shall strike her across the face with it. lord windermere. margaret, you couldn’t do such a thing. lady windermere. you don’t know me! [_moves r._] [_enter_ parker.] parker! parker. yes, my lady. lady windermere. i shall dine in my own room. i don’t want dinner, in fact. see that everything is ready by half-past ten. and, parker, be sure you pronounce the names of the guests very distinctly to-night. sometimes you speak so fast that i miss them. i am particularly anxious to hear the names quite clearly, so as to make no mistake. you understand, parker? parker. yes, my lady. lady windermere. that will do! [_exit_ parker _c._] [_speaking to_ lord windermere.] arthur, if that woman comes here—i warn you— lord windermere. margaret, you’ll ruin us! lady windermere. us! from this moment my life is separate from yours. but if you wish to avoid a public scandal, write at once to this woman, and tell her that i forbid her to come here! lord windermere. i will not—i cannot—she must come! lady windermere. then i shall do exactly as i have said. [_goes r._] you leave me no choice. [_exit r._] lord windermere. [_calling after her_.] margaret! margaret! [_a pause_.] my god! what shall i do? i dare not tell her who this woman really is. the shame would kill her. [_sinks down into a chair and buries his face in his hands_.] * * * * * act drop second act scene _drawing-room in lord windermere’s house_. _door r.u. opening into ball-room_, _where band is playing_. _door l. through which guests are entering_. _door l.u. opens on to illuminated terrace_. _palms_, _flowers_, _and brilliant lights_. _room crowded with guests_. _lady windermere is receiving them_. duchess of berwick. [_up c._] so strange lord windermere isn’t here. mr. hopper is very late, too. you have kept those five dances for him, agatha? [_comes down_.] lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. [_sitting on sofa_.] just let me see your card. i’m so glad lady windermere has revived cards.—they’re a mother’s only safeguard. you dear simple little thing! [_scratches out two names_.] no nice girl should ever waltz with such particularly younger sons! it looks so fast! the last two dances you might pass on the terrace with mr. hopper. [_enter_ mr. dumby _and_ lady plymdale _from the ball-room_.] lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. [_fanning herself_.] the air is so pleasant there. parker. mrs. cowper-cowper. lady stutfield. sir james royston. mr. guy berkeley. [_these people enter as announced_.] dumby. good evening, lady stutfield. i suppose this will be the last ball of the season? lady stutfield. i suppose so, mr. dumby. it’s been a delightful season, hasn’t it? dumby. quite delightful! good evening, duchess. i suppose this will be the last ball of the season? duchess of berwick. i suppose so, mr. dumby. it has been a very dull season, hasn’t it? dumby. dreadfully dull! dreadfully dull! mr. cowper-cowper. good evening, mr. dumby. i suppose this will be the last ball of the season? dumby. oh, i think not. there’ll probably be two more. [_wanders back to_ lady plymdale.] parker. mr. rufford. lady jedburgh and miss graham. mr. hopper. [_these people enter as announced_.] hopper. how do you do, lady windermere? how do you do, duchess? [_bows to_ lady agatha.] duchess of berwick. dear mr. hopper, how nice of you to come so early. we all know how you are run after in london. hopper. capital place, london! they are not nearly so exclusive in london as they are in sydney. duchess of berwick. ah! we know your value, mr. hopper. we wish there were more like you. it would make life so much easier. do you know, mr. hopper, dear agatha and i are so much interested in australia. it must be so pretty with all the dear little kangaroos flying about. agatha has found it on the map. what a curious shape it is! just like a large packing case. however, it is a very young country, isn’t it? hopper. wasn’t it made at the same time as the others, duchess? duchess of berwick. how clever you are, mr. hopper. you have a cleverness quite of your own. now i mustn’t keep you. hopper. but i should like to dance with lady agatha, duchess. duchess of berwick. well, i hope she has a dance left. have you a dance left, agatha? lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. the next one? lady agatha. yes, mamma. hopper. may i have the pleasure? [lady agatha _bows_.] duchess of berwick. mind you take great care of my little chatterbox, mr. hopper. [lady agatha _and_ mr. hopper _pass into ball-room_.] [_enter_ lord windermere.] lord windermere. margaret, i want to speak to you. lady windermere. in a moment. [_the music drops_.] parker. lord augustus lorton. [_enter_ lord augustus.] lord augustus. good evening, lady windermere. duchess of berwick. sir james, will you take me into the ball-room? augustus has been dining with us to-night. i really have had quite enough of dear augustus for the moment. [sir james royston _gives the_ duchess _his aim and escorts her into the ball-room_.] parker. mr. and mrs. arthur bowden. lord and lady paisley. lord darlington. [_these people enter as announced_.] lord augustus. [_coming up to_ lord windermere.] want to speak to you particularly, dear boy. i’m worn to a shadow. know i don’t look it. none of us men do look what we really are. demmed good thing, too. what i want to know is this. who is she? where does she come from? why hasn’t she got any demmed relations? demmed nuisance, relations! but they make one so demmed respectable. lord windermere. you are talking of mrs. erlynne, i suppose? i only met her six months ago. till then, i never knew of her existence. lord augustus. you have seen a good deal of her since then. lord windermere. [_coldly_.] yes, i have seen a good deal of her since then. i have just seen her. lord augustus. egad! the women are very down on her. i have been dining with arabella this evening! by jove! you should have heard what she said about mrs. erlynne. she didn’t leave a rag on her. . . . [_aside_.] berwick and i told her that didn’t matter much, as the lady in question must have an extremely fine figure. you should have seen arabella’s expression! . . . but, look here, dear boy. i don’t know what to do about mrs. erlynne. egad! i might be married to her; she treats me with such demmed indifference. she’s deuced clever, too! she explains everything. egad! she explains you. she has got any amount of explanations for you—and all of them different. lord windermere. no explanations are necessary about my friendship with mrs. erlynne. lord augustus. hem! well, look here, dear old fellow. do you think she will ever get into this demmed thing called society? would you introduce her to your wife? no use beating about the confounded bush. would you do that? lord windermere. mrs. erlynne is coming here to-night. lord augustus. your wife has sent her a card? lord windermere. mrs. erlynne has received a card. lord augustus. then she’s all right, dear boy. but why didn’t you tell me that before? it would have saved me a heap of worry and demmed misunderstandings! [lady agatha _and_ mr. hopper _cross and exit on terrace l.u.e._] parker. mr. cecil graham! [_enter_ mr. cecil graham.] cecil graham. [_bows to_ lady windermere, _passes over and shakes hands with_ lord windermere.] good evening, arthur. why don’t you ask me how i am? i like people to ask me how i am. it shows a wide-spread interest in my health. now, to-night i am not at all well. been dining with my people. wonder why it is one’s people are always so tedious? my father would talk morality after dinner. i told him he was old enough to know better. but my experience is that as soon as people are old enough to know better, they don’t know anything at all. hallo, tuppy! hear you’re going to be married again; thought you were tired of that game. lord augustus. you’re excessively trivial, my dear boy, excessively trivial! cecil graham. by the way, tuppy, which is it? have you been twice married and once divorced, or twice divorced and once married? i say you’ve been twice divorced and once married. it seems so much more probable. lord augustus. i have a very bad memory. i really don’t remember which. [_moves away r._] lady plymdale. lord windermere, i’ve something most particular to ask you. lord windermere. i am afraid—if you will excuse me—i must join my wife. lady plymdale. oh, you mustn’t dream of such a thing. it’s most dangerous nowadays for a husband to pay any attention to his wife in public. it always makes people think that he beats her when they’re alone. the world has grown so suspicious of anything that looks like a happy married life. but i’ll tell you what it is at supper. [_moves towards door of ball-room_.] lord windermere. [_c._] margaret! i _must_ speak to you. lady windermere. will you hold my fan for me, lord darlington? thanks. [_comes down to him_.] lord windermere. [_crossing to her_.] margaret, what you said before dinner was, of course, impossible? lady windermere. that woman is not coming here to-night! lord windermere. [_r.c._] mrs. erlynne is coming here, and if you in any way annoy or wound her, you will bring shame and sorrow on us both. remember that! ah, margaret! only trust me! a wife should trust her husband! lady windermere. [_c._] london is full of women who trust their husbands. one can always recognise them. they look so thoroughly unhappy. i am not going to be one of them. [_moves up_.] lord darlington, will you give me back my fan, please? thanks. . . . a useful thing a fan, isn’t it? . . . i want a friend to-night, lord darlington: i didn’t know i would want one so soon. lord darlington. lady windermere! i knew the time would come some day; but why to-night? lord windermere. i _will_ tell her. i must. it would be terrible if there were any scene. margaret . . . parker. mrs. erlynne! [lord windermere _starts_. mrs. erlynne _enters_, _very beautifully dressed and very dignified_. lady windermere _clutches at her fan_, _then lets it drop on the door_. _she bows coldly to_ mrs. erlynne, _who bows to her sweetly in turn_, _and sails into the room_.] lord darlington. you have dropped your fan, lady windermere. [_picks it up and hands it to her_.] mrs. erlynne. [_c._] how do you do, again, lord windermere? how charming your sweet wife looks! quite a picture! lord windermere. [_in a low voice_.] it was terribly rash of you to come! mrs. erlynne. [_smiling_.] the wisest thing i ever did in my life. and, by the way, you must pay me a good deal of attention this evening. i am afraid of the women. you must introduce me to some of them. the men i can always manage. how do you do, lord augustus? you have quite neglected me lately. i have not seen you since yesterday. i am afraid you’re faithless. every one told me so. lord augustus. [_r._] now really, mrs. erlynne, allow me to explain. mrs. erlynne. [_r.c._] no, dear lord augustus, you can’t explain anything. it is your chief charm. lord augustus. ah! if you find charms in me, mrs. erlynne— [_they converse together_. lord windermere _moves uneasily about the room watching_ mrs. erlynne.] lord darlington. [_to_ lady windermere.] how pale you are! lady windermere. cowards are always pale! lord darlington. you look faint. come out on the terrace. lady windermere. yes. [_to_ parker.] parker, send my cloak out. mrs. erlynne. [_crossing to her_.] lady windermere, how beautifully your terrace is illuminated. reminds me of prince doria’s at rome. [lady windermere _bows coldly_, _and goes off with_ lord darlington.] oh, how do you do, mr. graham? isn’t that your aunt, lady jedburgh? i should so much like to know her. cecil graham. [_after a moment’s hesitation and embarrassment_.] oh, certainly, if you wish it. aunt caroline, allow me to introduce mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. so pleased to meet you, lady jedburgh. [_sits beside her on the sofa_.] your nephew and i are great friends. i am so much interested in his political career. i think he’s sure to be a wonderful success. he thinks like a tory, and talks like a radical, and that’s so important nowadays. he’s such a brilliant talker, too. but we all know from whom he inherits that. lord allandale was saying to me only yesterday, in the park, that mr. graham talks almost as well as his aunt. lady jedburgh. [_r._] most kind of you to say these charming things to me! [mrs. erlynne _smiles_, _and continues conversation_.] dumby. [_to_ cecil graham.] did you introduce mrs. erlynne to lady jedburgh? cecil graham. had to, my dear fellow. couldn’t help it! that woman can make one do anything she wants. how, i don’t know. dumby. hope to goodness she won’t speak to me! [_saunters towards_ lady plymdale.] mrs. erlynne. [_c._ _to_ lady jedburgh.] on thursday? with great pleasure. [_rises_, _and speaks to_ lord windermere, _laughing_.] what a bore it is to have to be civil to these old dowagers! but they always insist on it! lady plymdale. [_to_ mr. dumby.] who is that well-dressed woman talking to windermere? dumby. haven’t got the slightest idea! looks like an _édition de luxe_ of a wicked french novel, meant specially for the english market. mrs. erlynne. so that is poor dumby with lady plymdale? i hear she is frightfully jealous of him. he doesn’t seem anxious to speak to me to-night. i suppose he is afraid of her. those straw-coloured women have dreadful tempers. do you know, i think i’ll dance with you first, windermere. [lord windermere _bits his lip and frowns_.] it will make lord augustus so jealous! lord augustus! [lord augustus _comes down_.] lord windermere insists on my dancing with him first, and, as it’s his own house, i can’t well refuse. you know i would much sooner dance with you. lord augustus. [_with a low bow_.] i wish i could think so, mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. you know it far too well. i can fancy a person dancing through life with you and finding it charming. lord augustus. [_placing his hand on his white waistcoat_.] oh, thank you, thank you. you are the most adorable of all ladies! mrs. erlynne. what a nice speech! so simple and so sincere! just the sort of speech i like. well, you shall hold my bouquet. [_goes towards ball-room on_ lord windermere’s _arm_.] ah, mr. dumby, how are you? i am so sorry i have been out the last three times you have called. come and lunch on friday. dumby. [_with perfect nonchalance_.] delighted! [lady plymdale _glares with indignation at_ mr. dumby. lord augustus _follows_ mrs. erlynne _and_ lord windermere _into the ball-room holding bouquet_.] lady plymdale. [_to_ mr. dumby.] what an absolute brute you are! i never can believe a word you say! why did you tell me you didn’t know her? what do you mean by calling on her three times running? you are not to go to lunch there; of course you understand that? dumby. my dear laura, i wouldn’t dream of going! lady plymdale. you haven’t told me her name yet! who is she? dumby. [_coughs slightly and smooths his hair_.] she’s a mrs. erlynne. lady plymdale. that woman! dumby. yes; that is what every one calls her. lady plymdale. how very interesting! how intensely interesting! i really must have a good stare at her. [_goes to door of ball-room and looks in_.] i have heard the most shocking things about her. they say she is ruining poor windermere. and lady windermere, who goes in for being so proper, invites her! how extremely amusing! it takes a thoroughly good woman to do a thoroughly stupid thing. you are to lunch there on friday! dumby. why? lady plymdale. because i want you to take my husband with you. he has been so attentive lately, that he has become a perfect nuisance. now, this woman is just the thing for him. he’ll dance attendance upon her as long as she lets him, and won’t bother me. i assure you, women of that kind are most useful. they form the basis of other people’s marriages. dumby. what a mystery you are! lady plymdale. [_looking at him_.] i wish _you_ were! dumby. i am—to myself. i am the only person in the world i should like to know thoroughly; but i don’t see any chance of it just at present. [_they pass into the ball-room_, _and_ lady windermere _and_ lord darlington _enter from the terrace_.] lady windermere. yes. her coming here is monstrous, unbearable. i know now what you meant to-day at tea-time. why didn’t you tell me right out? you should have! lord darlington. i couldn’t! a man can’t tell these things about another man! but if i had known he was going to make you ask her here to-night, i think i would have told you. that insult, at any rate, you would have been spared. lady windermere. i did not ask her. he insisted on her coming—against my entreaties—against my commands. oh! the house is tainted for me! i feel that every woman here sneers at me as she dances by with my husband. what have i done to deserve this? i gave him all my life. he took it—used it—spoiled it! i am degraded in my own eyes; and i lack courage—i am a coward! [_sits down on sofa_.] lord darlington. if i know you at all, i know that you can’t live with a man who treats you like this! what sort of life would you have with him? you would feel that he was lying to you every moment of the day. you would feel that the look in his eyes was false, his voice false, his touch false, his passion false. he would come to you when he was weary of others; you would have to comfort him. he would come to you when he was devoted to others; you would have to charm him. you would have to be to him the mask of his real life, the cloak to hide his secret. lady windermere. you are right—you are terribly right. but where am i to turn? you said you would be my friend, lord darlington.—tell me, what am i to do? be my friend now. lord darlington. between men and women there is no friendship possible. there is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship. i love you— lady windermere. no, no! [_rises_.] lord darlington. yes, i love you! you are more to me than anything in the whole world. what does your husband give you? nothing. whatever is in him he gives to this wretched woman, whom he has thrust into your society, into your home, to shame you before every one. i offer you my life— lady windermere. lord darlington! lord darlington. my life—my whole life. take it, and do with it what you will. . . . i love you—love you as i have never loved any living thing. from the moment i met you i loved you, loved you blindly, adoringly, madly! you did not know it then—you know it now! leave this house to-night. i won’t tell you that the world matters nothing, or the world’s voice, or the voice of society. they matter a great deal. they matter far too much. but there are moments when one has to choose between living one’s own life, fully, entirely, completely—or dragging out some false, shallow, degrading existence that the world in its hypocrisy demands. you have that moment now. choose! oh, my love, choose. lady windermere. [_moving slowly away from him_, _and looking at him with startled eyes_.] i have not the courage. lord darlington. [_following her_.] yes; you have the courage. there may be six months of pain, of disgrace even, but when you no longer bear his name, when you bear mine, all will be well. margaret, my love, my wife that shall be some day—yes, my wife! you know it! what are you now? this woman has the place that belongs by right to you. oh! go—go out of this house, with head erect, with a smile upon your lips, with courage in your eyes. all london will know why you did it; and who will blame you? no one. if they do, what matter? wrong? what is wrong? it’s wrong for a man to abandon his wife for a shameless woman. it is wrong for a wife to remain with a man who so dishonours her. you said once you would make no compromise with things. make none now. be brave! be yourself! lady windermere. i am afraid of being myself. let me think! let me wait! my husband may return to me. [_sits down on sofa_.] lord darlington. and you would take him back! you are not what i thought you were. you are just the same as every other woman. you would stand anything rather than face the censure of a world, whose praise you would despise. in a week you will be driving with this woman in the park. she will be your constant guest—your dearest friend. you would endure anything rather than break with one blow this monstrous tie. you are right. you have no courage; none! lady windermere. ah, give me time to think. i cannot answer you now. [_passes her hand nervously over her brow_.] lord darlington. it must be now or not at all. lady windermere. [_rising from the sofa_.] then, not at all! [_a pause_.] lord darlington. you break my heart! lady windermere. mine is already broken. [_a pause_.] lord darlington. to-morrow i leave england. this is the last time i shall ever look on you. you will never see me again. for one moment our lives met—our souls touched. they must never meet or touch again. good-bye, margaret. [_exit_.] lady windermere. how alone i am in life! how terribly alone! [_the music stops_. _enter the_ duchess of berwick _and_ lord paisley _laughing and talking_. _other guests come on from ball-room_.] duchess of berwick. dear margaret, i’ve just been having such a delightful chat with mrs. erlynne. i am so sorry for what i said to you this afternoon about her. of course, she must be all right if _you_ invite her. a most attractive woman, and has such sensible views on life. told me she entirely disapproved of people marrying more than once, so i feel quite safe about poor augustus. can’t imagine why people speak against her. it’s those horrid nieces of mine—the saville girls—they’re always talking scandal. still, i should go to homburg, dear, i really should. she is just a little too attractive. but where is agatha? oh, there she is: [lady agatha _and_ mr. hopper _enter from terrace l.u.e._] mr. hopper, i am very, very angry with you. you have taken agatha out on the terrace, and she is so delicate. hopper. awfully sorry, duchess. we went out for a moment and then got chatting together. duchess of berwick. [_c._] ah, about dear australia, i suppose? hopper. yes! duchess of berwick. agatha, darling! [_beckons her over_.] lady agatha. yes, mamma! duchess of berwick. [_aside_.] did mr. hopper definitely— lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. and what answer did you give him, dear child? lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. [_affectionately_.] my dear one! you always say the right thing. mr. hopper! james! agatha has told me everything. how cleverly you have both kept your secret. hopper. you don’t mind my taking agatha off to australia, then, duchess? duchess of berwick. [_indignantly_.] to australia? oh, don’t mention that dreadful vulgar place. hopper. but she said she’d like to come with me. duchess of berwick. [_severely_.] did you say that, agatha? lady agatha. yes, mamma. duchess of berwick. agatha, you say the most silly things possible. i think on the whole that grosvenor square would be a more healthy place to reside in. there are lots of vulgar people live in grosvenor square, but at any rate there are no horrid kangaroos crawling about. but we’ll talk about that to-morrow. james, you can take agatha down. you’ll come to lunch, of course, james. at half-past one, instead of two. the duke will wish to say a few words to you, i am sure. hopper. i should like to have a chat with the duke, duchess. he has not said a single word to me yet. duchess of berwick. i think you’ll find he will have a great deal to say to you to-morrow. [_exit_ lady agatha _with_ mr. hopper.] and now good-night, margaret. i’m afraid it’s the old, old story, dear. love—well, not love at first sight, but love at the end of the season, which is so much more satisfactory. lady windermere. good-night, duchess. [_exit the_ duchess of berwick _on_ lord paisley’s _arm_.] lady plymdale. my dear margaret, what a handsome woman your husband has been dancing with! i should be quite jealous if i were you! is she a great friend of yours? lady windermere. no! lady plymdale. really? good-night, dear. [_looks at_ mr. dumby _and exit_.] dumby. awful manners young hopper has! cecil graham. ah! hopper is one of nature’s gentlemen, the worst type of gentleman i know. dumby. sensible woman, lady windermere. lots of wives would have objected to mrs. erlynne coming. but lady windermere has that uncommon thing called common sense. cecil graham. and windermere knows that nothing looks so like innocence as an indiscretion. dumby. yes; dear windermere is becoming almost modern. never thought he would. [_bows to_ lady windermere _and exit_.] lady jedburgh. good night, lady windermere. what a fascinating woman mrs. erlynne is! she is coming to lunch on thursday, won’t you come too? i expect the bishop and dear lady merton. lady windermere. i am afraid i am engaged, lady jedburgh. lady jedburgh. so sorry. come, dear. [_exeunt_ lady jedburgh _and_ miss graham.] [_enter_ mrs. erlynne _and_ lord windermere.] mrs. erlynne. charming ball it has been! quite reminds me of old days. [_sits on sofa_.] and i see that there are just as many fools in society as there used to be. so pleased to find that nothing has altered! except margaret. she’s grown quite pretty. the last time i saw her—twenty years ago, she was a fright in flannel. positive fright, i assure you. the dear duchess! and that sweet lady agatha! just the type of girl i like! well, really, windermere, if i am to be the duchess’s sister-in-law— lord windermere. [_sitting l. of her_.] but are you—? [_exit_ mr. cecil graham _with rest of guests_. lady windermere _watches_, _with a look of scorn and pain_, mrs. erlynne _and her husband_. _they are unconscious of her presence_.] mrs. erlynne. oh, yes! he’s to call to-morrow at twelve o’clock! he wanted to propose to-night. in fact he did. he kept on proposing. poor augustus, you know how he repeats himself. such a bad habit! but i told him i wouldn’t give him an answer till to-morrow. of course i am going to take him. and i dare say i’ll make him an admirable wife, as wives go. and there is a great deal of good in lord augustus. fortunately it is all on the surface. just where good qualities should be. of course you must help me in this matter. lord windermere. i am not called on to encourage lord augustus, i suppose? mrs. erlynne. oh, no! i do the encouraging. but you will make me a handsome settlement, windermere, won’t you? lord windermere. [_frowning_.] is that what you want to talk to me about to-night? mrs. erlynne. yes. lord windermere. [_with a gesture of impatience_.] i will not talk of it here. mrs. erlynne. [_laughing_.] then we will talk of it on the terrace. even business should have a picturesque background. should it not, windermere? with a proper background women can do anything. lord windermere. won’t to-morrow do as well? mrs. erlynne. no; you see, to-morrow i am going to accept him. and i think it would be a good thing if i was able to tell him that i had—well, what shall i <UNK> a year left to me by a third cousin—or a second husband—or some distant relative of that kind. it would be an additional attraction, wouldn’t it? you have a delightful opportunity now of paying me a compliment, windermere. but you are not very clever at paying compliments. i am afraid margaret doesn’t encourage you in that excellent habit. it’s a great mistake on her part. when men give up saying what is charming, they give up thinking what is charming. but seriously, what do you say to <UNK> <UNK> i think. in modern life margin is everything. windermere, don’t you think the world an intensely amusing place? i do! [_exit on terrace with_ lord windermere. music strikes up in ball-room.] lady windermere. to stay in this house any longer is impossible. to-night a man who loves me offered me his whole life. i refused it. it was foolish of me. i will offer him mine now. i will give him mine. i will go to him! [_puts on cloak and goes to the door_, _then turns back_. _sits down at table and writes a letter_, _puts it into an envelope_, _and leaves it on table_.] arthur has never understood me. when he reads this, he will. he may do as he chooses now with his life. i have done with mine as i think best, as i think right. it is he who has broken the bond of marriage—not i. i only break its bondage. [_exit_.] [_parker enters l. and crosses towards the ball-room r._ _enter_ mrs. erlynne.] mrs. erlynne. is lady windermere in the ball-room? parker. her ladyship has just gone out. mrs. erlynne. gone out? she’s not on the terrace? parker. no, madam. her ladyship has just gone out of the house. mrs. erlynne. [_starts_, _and looks at the servant with a puzzled expression in her face_.] out of the house? parker. yes, madam—her ladyship told me she had left a letter for his lordship on the table. mrs. erlynne. a letter for lord windermere? parker. yes, madam. mrs. erlynne. thank you. [_exit_ parker. _the music in the ball-room stops_.] gone out of her house! a letter addressed to her husband! [_goes over to bureau and looks at letter_. _takes it up and lays it down again with a shudder of fear_.] no, no! it would be impossible! life doesn’t repeat its tragedies like that! oh, why does this horrible fancy come across me? why do i remember now the one moment of my life i most wish to forget? does life repeat its tragedies? [_tears letter open and reads it_, _then sinks down into a chair with a gesture of anguish_.] oh, how terrible! the same words that twenty years ago i wrote to her father! and how bitterly i have been punished for it! no; my punishment, my real punishment is to-night, is now! [_still seated r._] [_enter_ lord windermere _l.u.e._] lord windermere. have you said good-night to my wife? [_comes c._] mrs. erlynne. [_crushing letter in her hand_.] yes. lord windermere. where is she? mrs. erlynne. she is very tired. she has gone to bed. she said she had a headache. lord windermere. i must go to her. you’ll excuse me? mrs. erlynne. [_rising hurriedly_.] oh, no! it’s nothing serious. she’s only very tired, that is all. besides, there are people still in the supper-room. she wants you to make her apologies to them. she said she didn’t wish to be disturbed. [_drops letter_.] she asked me to tell you! lord windermere. [_picks up letter_.] you have dropped something. mrs. erlynne. oh yes, thank you, that is mine. [_puts out her hand to take it_.] lord windermere. [_still looking at letter_.] but it’s my wife’s handwriting, isn’t it? mrs. erlynne. [_takes the letter quickly_.] yes, it’s—an address. will you ask them to call my carriage, please? lord windermere. certainly. [_goes l. and exit_.] mrs. erlynne. thanks! what can i do? what can i do? i feel a passion awakening within me that i never felt before. what can it mean? the daughter must not be like the mother—that would be terrible. how can i save her? how can i save my child? a moment may ruin a life. who knows that better than i? windermere must be got out of the house; that is absolutely necessary. [_goes l._] but how shall i do it? it must be done somehow. ah! [_enter_ lord augustus _r.u.e. carrying bouquet_.] lord augustus. dear lady, i am in such suspense! may i not have an answer to my request? mrs. erlynne. lord augustus, listen to me. you are to take lord windermere down to your club at once, and keep him there as long as possible. you understand? lord augustus. but you said you wished me to keep early hours! mrs. erlynne. [_nervously_.] do what i tell you. do what i tell you. lord augustus. and my reward? mrs. erlynne. your reward? your reward? oh! ask me that to-morrow. but don’t let windermere out of your sight to-night. if you do i will never forgive you. i will never speak to you again. i’ll have nothing to do with you. remember you are to keep windermere at your club, and don’t let him come back to-night. [_exit l._] lord augustus. well, really, i might be her husband already. positively i might. [_follows her in a bewildered manner_.] * * * * * act drop. third act scene _lord darlington’s rooms_. _a large sofa is in front of fireplace r._ _at the back of the stage a curtain is drawn across the window_. _doors l. and r._ _table r. with writing materials. table c. with syphons, glasses, and tantalus frame_. _table l. with cigar and cigarette box. lamps lit_. lady windermere. [_standing by the fireplace_.] why doesn’t he come? this waiting is horrible. he should be here. why is he not here, to wake by passionate words some fire within me? i am cold—cold as a loveless thing. arthur must have read my letter by this time. if he cared for me, he would have come after me, would have taken me back by force. but he doesn’t care. he’s entrammelled by this woman—fascinated by her—dominated by her. if a woman wants to hold a man, she has merely to appeal to what is worst in him. we make gods of men and they leave us. others make brutes of them and they fawn and are faithful. how hideous life is! . . . oh! it was mad of me to come here, horribly mad. and yet, which is the worst, i wonder, to be at the mercy of a man who loves one, or the wife of a man who in one’s own house dishonours one? what woman knows? what woman in the whole world? but will he love me always, this man to whom i am giving my life? what do i bring him? lips that have lost the note of joy, eyes that are blinded by tears, chill hands and icy heart. i bring him nothing. i must go back—no; i can’t go back, my letter has put me in their power—arthur would not take me back! that fatal letter! no! lord darlington leaves england to-morrow. i will go with him—i have no choice. [_sits down for a few moments_. _then starts up and puts on her cloak_.] no, no! i will go back, let arthur do with me what he pleases. i can’t wait here. it has been madness my coming. i must go at once. as for lord darlington—oh! here he is! what shall i do? what can i say to him? will he let me go away at all? i have heard that men are brutal, horrible . . . oh! [_hides her face in her hands_.] [_enter_ mrs. erlynne _l._] mrs. erlynne. lady windermere! [lady windermere _starts and looks up_. _then recoils in contempt_.] thank heaven i am in time. you must go back to your husband’s house immediately. lady windermere. must? mrs. erlynne. [_authoritatively_.] yes, you must! there is not a second to be lost. lord darlington may return at any moment. lady windermere. don’t come near me! mrs. erlynne. oh! you are on the brink of ruin, you are on the brink of a hideous precipice. you must leave this place at once, my carriage is waiting at the corner of the street. you must come with me and drive straight home. [lady windermere _throws off her cloak and flings it on the sofa_.] what are you doing? lady windermere. mrs. erlynne—if you had not come here, i would have gone back. but now that i see you, i feel that nothing in the whole world would induce me to live under the same roof as lord windermere. you fill me with horror. there is something about you that stirs the wildest—rage within me. and i know why you are here. my husband sent you to lure me back that i might serve as a blind to whatever relations exist between you and him. mrs. erlynne. oh! you don’t think that—you can’t. lady windermere. go back to my husband, mrs. erlynne. he belongs to you and not to me. i suppose he is afraid of a scandal. men are such cowards. they outrage every law of the world, and are afraid of the world’s tongue. but he had better prepare himself. he shall have a scandal. he shall have the worst scandal there has been in london for years. he shall see his name in every vile paper, mine on every hideous placard. mrs. erlynne. no—no— lady windermere. yes! he shall. had he come himself, i admit i would have gone back to the life of degradation you and he had prepared for me—i was going back—but to stay himself at home, and to send you as his messenger—oh! it was infamous—infamous. mrs. erlynne. [_c._] lady windermere, you wrong me horribly—you wrong your husband horribly. he doesn’t know you are here—he thinks you are safe in your own house. he thinks you are asleep in your own room. he never read the mad letter you wrote to him! lady windermere. [_r._] never read it! mrs. erlynne. no—he knows nothing about it. lady windermere. how simple you think me! [_going to her_.] you are lying to me! mrs. erlynne. [_restraining herself_.] i am not. i am telling you the truth. lady windermere. if my husband didn’t read my letter, how is it that you are here? who told you i had left the house you were shameless enough to enter? who told you where i had gone to? my husband told you, and sent you to decoy me back. [_crosses l._] mrs. erlynne. [_r.c._] your husband has never seen the letter. i—saw it, i opened it. i—read it. lady windermere. [_turning to her_.] you opened a letter of mine to my husband? you wouldn’t dare! mrs. erlynne. dare! oh! to save you from the abyss into which you are falling, there is nothing in the world i would not dare, nothing in the whole world. here is the letter. your husband has never read it. he never shall read it. [_going to fireplace_.] it should never have been written. [_tears it and throws it into the fire_.] lady windermere. [_with infinite contempt in her voice and look_.] how do i know that that was my letter after all? you seem to think the commonest device can take me in! mrs. erlynne. oh! why do you disbelieve everything i tell you? what object do you think i have in coming here, except to save you from utter ruin, to save you from the consequence of a hideous mistake? that letter that is burnt now _was_ your letter. i swear it to you! lady windermere. [_slowly_.] you took good care to burn it before i had examined it. i cannot trust you. you, whose whole life is a lie, could you speak the truth about anything? [_sits down_.] mrs. erlynne. [_hurriedly_.] think as you like about me—say what you choose against me, but go back, go back to the husband you love. lady windermere. [_sullenly_.] i do _not_ love him! mrs. erlynne. you do, and you know that he loves you. lady windermere. he does not understand what love is. he understands it as little as you do—but i see what you want. it would be a great advantage for you to get me back. dear heaven! what a life i would have then! living at the mercy of a woman who has neither mercy nor pity in her, a woman whom it is an infamy to meet, a degradation to know, a vile woman, a woman who comes between husband and wife! mrs. erlynne. [_with a gesture of despair_.] lady windermere, lady windermere, don’t say such terrible things. you don’t know how terrible they are, how terrible and how unjust. listen, you must listen! only go back to your husband, and i promise you never to communicate with him again on any pretext—never to see him—never to have anything to do with his life or yours. the money that he gave me, he gave me not through love, but through hatred, not in worship, but in contempt. the hold i have over him— lady windermere. [_rising_.] ah! you admit you have a hold! mrs. erlynne. yes, and i will tell you what it is. it is his love for you, lady windermere. lady windermere. you expect me to believe that? mrs. erlynne. you must believe it! it is true. it is his love for you that has made him submit to—oh! call it what you like, tyranny, threats, anything you choose. but it is his love for you. his desire to spare you—shame, yes, shame and disgrace. lady windermere. what do you mean? you are insolent! what have i to do with you? mrs. erlynne. [_humbly_.] nothing. i know it—but i tell you that your husband loves you—that you may never meet with such love again in your whole life—that such love you will never meet—and that if you throw it away, the day may come when you will starve for love and it will not be given to you, beg for love and it will be denied you—oh! arthur loves you! lady windermere. arthur? and you tell me there is nothing between you? mrs. erlynne. lady windermere, before heaven your husband is guiltless of all offence towards you! and i—i tell you that had it ever occurred to me that such a monstrous suspicion would have entered your mind, i would have died rather than have crossed your life or his—oh! died, gladly died! [_moves away to sofa r._] lady windermere. you talk as if you had a heart. women like you have no hearts. heart is not in you. you are bought and sold. [_sits l.c._] mrs. erlynne. [_starts_, _with a gesture of pain_. _then restrains herself_, _and comes over to where_ lady windermere _is sitting_. _as she speaks_, _she stretches out her hands towards her_, _but does not dare to touch her_.] believe what you choose about me. i am not worth a moment’s sorrow. but don’t spoil your beautiful young life on my account! you don’t know what may be in store for you, unless you leave this house at once. you don’t know what it is to fall into the pit, to be despised, mocked, abandoned, sneered at—to be an outcast! to find the door shut against one, to have to creep in by hideous byways, afraid every moment lest the mask should be stripped from one’s face, and all the while to hear the laughter, the horrible laughter of the world, a thing more tragic than all the tears the world has ever shed. you don’t know what it is. one pays for one’s sin, and then one pays again, and all one’s life one pays. you must never know that.—as for me, if suffering be an expiation, then at this moment i have expiated all my faults, whatever they have been; for to-night you have made a heart in one who had it not, made it and broken it.—but let that pass. i may have wrecked my own life, but i will not let you wreck yours. you—why, you are a mere girl, you would be lost. you haven’t got the kind of brains that enables a woman to get back. you have neither the wit nor the courage. you couldn’t stand dishonour! no! go back, lady windermere, to the husband who loves you, whom you love. you have a child, lady windermere. go back to that child who even now, in pain or in joy, may be calling to you. [lady windermere _rises_.] god gave you that child. he will require from you that you make his life fine, that you watch over him. what answer will you make to god if his life is ruined through you? back to your house, lady windermere—your husband loves you! he has never swerved for a moment from the love he bears you. but even if he had a thousand loves, you must stay with your child. if he was harsh to you, you must stay with your child. if he ill-treated you, you must stay with your child. if he abandoned you, your place is with your child. [lady windermere _bursts into tears and buries her face in her hands_.] [_rushing to her_.] lady windermere! lady windermere. [_holding out her hands to her_, _helplessly_, _as a child might do_.] take me home. take me home. mrs. erlynne. [_is about to embrace her_. _then restrains herself_. _there is a look of wonderful joy in her face_.] come! where is your cloak? [_getting it from sofa_.] here. put it on. come at once! [_they go to the door_.] lady windermere. stop! don’t you hear voices? mrs. erlynne. no, no! there was no one! lady windermere. yes, there is! listen! oh! that is my husband’s voice! he is coming in! save me! oh, it’s some plot! you have sent for him. [_voices outside_.] mrs. erlynne. silence! i’m here to save you, if i can. but i fear it is too late! there! [_points to the curtain across the window_.] the first chance you have, slip out, if you ever get a chance! lady windermere. but you? mrs. erlynne. oh! never mind me. i’ll face them. [lady windermere _hides herself behind the curtain_.] lord augustus. [_outside_.] nonsense, dear windermere, you must not leave me! mrs. erlynne. lord augustus! then it is i who am lost! [_hesitates for a moment_, then _looks round and sees door r._, _and exits through it_.] [_enter_ lord darlington, mr. dumby, lord windermere, lord augustus lorton, _and_ mr. cecil graham. dumby. what a nuisance their turning us out of the club at this hour! it’s only two o’clock. [_sinks into a chair_.] the lively part of the evening is only just beginning. [_yawns and closes his eyes_.] lord windermere. it is very good of you, lord darlington, allowing augustus to force our company on you, but i’m afraid i can’t stay long. lord darlington. really! i am so sorry! you’ll take a cigar, won’t you? lord windermere. thanks! [_sits down_.] lord augustus. [_to_ lord windermere.] my dear boy, you must not dream of going. i have a great deal to talk to you about, of demmed importance, too. [_sits down with him at l. table_.] cecil graham. oh! we all know what that is! tuppy can’t talk about anything but mrs. erlynne. lord windermere. well, that is no business of yours, is it, cecil? cecil graham. none! that is why it interests me. my own business always bores me to death. i prefer other people’s. lord darlington. have something to drink, you fellows. cecil, you’ll have a whisky and soda? cecil graham. thanks. [_goes to table with_ lord darlington.] mrs. erlynne looked very handsome to-night, didn’t she? lord darlington. i am not one of her admirers. cecil graham. i usen’t to be, but i am now. why! she actually made me introduce her to poor dear aunt caroline. i believe she is going to lunch there. lord darlington. [_in purple_.] no? cecil graham. she is, really. lord darlington. excuse me, you fellows. i’m going away to-morrow. and i have to write a few letters. [_goes to writing table and sits down_.] dumby. clever woman, mrs. erlynne. cecil graham. hallo, dumby! i thought you were asleep. dumby. i am, i usually am! lord augustus. a very clever woman. knows perfectly well what a demmed fool i am—knows it as well as i do myself. [cecil graham _comes towards him laughing_.] ah, you may laugh, my boy, but it is a great thing to come across a woman who thoroughly understands one. dumby. it is an awfully dangerous thing. they always end by marrying one. cecil graham. but i thought, tuppy, you were never going to see her again! yes! you told me so yesterday evening at the club. you said you’d heard— [_whispering to him_.] lord augustus. oh, she’s explained that. cecil graham. and the wiesbaden affair? lord augustus. she’s explained that too. dumby. and her income, tuppy? has she explained that? lord augustus. [_in a very serious voice_.] she’s going to explain that to-morrow. [cecil graham _goes back to c. table_.] dumby. awfully commercial, women nowadays. our grandmothers threw their caps over the mills, of course, but, by jove, their granddaughters only throw their caps over mills that can raise the wind for them. lord augustus. you want to make her out a wicked woman. she is not! cecil graham. oh! wicked women bother one. good women bore one. that is the only difference between them. lord augustus. [_puffing a cigar_.] mrs. erlynne has a future before her. dumby. mrs. erlynne has a past before her. lord augustus. i prefer women with a past. they’re always so demmed amusing to talk to. cecil graham. well, you’ll have lots of topics of conversation with _her_, tuppy. [_rising and going to him_.] lord augustus. you’re getting annoying, dear-boy; you’re getting demmed annoying. cecil graham. [_puts his hands on his shoulders_.] now, tuppy, you’ve lost your figure and you’ve lost your character. don’t lose your temper; you have only got one. lord augustus. my dear boy, if i wasn’t the most good-natured man in london— cecil graham. we’d treat you with more respect, wouldn’t we, tuppy? [_strolls away_.] dumby. the youth of the present day are quite monstrous. they have absolutely no respect for dyed hair. [lord augustus _looks round angrily_.] cecil graham. mrs. erlynne has a very great respect for dear tuppy. dumby. then mrs. erlynne sets an admirable example to the rest of her sex. it is perfectly brutal the way most women nowadays behave to men who are not their husbands. lord windermere. dumby, you are ridiculous, and cecil, you let your tongue run away with you. you must leave mrs. erlynne alone. you don’t really know anything about her, and you’re always talking scandal against her. cecil graham. [_coming towards him l.c._] my dear arthur, i never talk scandal. _i_ only talk gossip. lord windermere. what is the difference between scandal and gossip? cecil graham. oh! gossip is charming! history is merely gossip. but scandal is gossip made tedious by morality. now, i never moralise. a man who moralises is usually a hypocrite, and a woman who moralises is invariably plain. there is nothing in the whole world so unbecoming to a woman as a nonconformist conscience. and most women know it, i’m glad to say. lord augustus. just my sentiments, dear boy, just my sentiments. cecil graham. sorry to hear it, tuppy; whenever people agree with me, i always feel i must be wrong. lord augustus. my dear boy, when i was your age— cecil graham. but you never were, tuppy, and you never will be. [_goes up c._] i say, darlington, let us have some cards. you’ll play, arthur, won’t you? lord windermere. no, thanks, cecil. dumby. [_with a sigh_.] good heavens! how marriage ruins a man! it’s as demoralising as cigarettes, and far more expensive. cecil graham. you’ll play, of course, tuppy? lord augustus. [_pouring himself out a brandy and soda at table_.] can’t, dear boy. promised mrs. erlynne never to play or drink again. cecil graham. now, my dear tuppy, don’t be led astray into the paths of virtue. reformed, you would be perfectly tedious. that is the worst of women. they always want one to be good. and if we are good, when they meet us, they don’t love us at all. they like to find us quite irretrievably bad, and to leave us quite unattractively good. lord darlington. [_rising from r. table_, _where he has been writing letters_.] they always do find us bad! dumby. i don’t think we are bad. i think we are all good, except tuppy. lord darlington. no, we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars. [_sits down at c. table_.] dumby. we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars? upon my word, you are very romantic to-night, darlington. cecil graham. too romantic! you must be in love. who is the girl? lord darlington. the woman i love is not free, or thinks she isn’t. [_glances instinctively at_ lord windermere _while he speaks_.] cecil graham. a married woman, then! well, there’s nothing in the world like the devotion of a married woman. it’s a thing no married man knows anything about. lord darlington. oh! she doesn’t love me. she is a good woman. she is the only good woman i have ever met in my life. cecil graham. the only good woman you have ever met in your life? lord darlington. yes! cecil graham. [_lighting a cigarette_.] well, you are a lucky fellow! why, i have met hundreds of good women. i never seem to meet any but good women. the world is perfectly packed with good women. to know them is a middle-class education. lord darlington. this woman has purity and innocence. she has everything we men have lost. cecil graham. my dear fellow, what on earth should we men do going about with purity and innocence? a carefully thought-out buttonhole is much more effective. dumby. she doesn’t really love you then? lord darlington. no, she does not! dumby. i congratulate you, my dear fellow. in this world there are only two tragedies. one is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it. the last is much the worst; the last is a real tragedy! but i am interested to hear she does not love you. how long could you love a woman who didn’t love you, cecil? cecil graham. a woman who didn’t love me? oh, all my life! dumby. so could i. but it’s so difficult to meet one. lord darlington. how can you be so conceited, dumby? dumby. i didn’t say it as a matter of conceit. i said it as a matter of regret. i have been wildly, madly adored. i am sorry i have. it has been an immense nuisance. i should like to be allowed a little time to myself now and then. lord augustus. [_looking round_.] time to educate yourself, i suppose. dumby. no, time to forget all i have learned. that is much more important, dear tuppy. [lord augustus _moves uneasily in his chair_.] lord darlington. what cynics you fellows are! cecil graham. what is a cynic? [_sitting on the back of the sofa_.] lord darlington. a man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. cecil graham. and a sentimentalist, my dear darlington, is a man who sees an absurd value in everything, and doesn’t know the market price of any single thing. lord darlington. you always amuse me, cecil. you talk as if you were a man of experience. cecil graham. i am. [_moves up to front off fireplace_.] lord darlington. you are far too young! cecil graham. that is a great error. experience is a question of instinct about life. i have got it. tuppy hasn’t. experience is the name tuppy gives to his mistakes. that is all. [lord augustus _looks round indignantly_.] dumby. experience is the name every one gives to their mistakes. cecil graham. [_standing with his back to the fireplace_.] one shouldn’t commit any. [_sees_ lady windermere’s _fan on sofa_.] dumby. life would be very dull without them. cecil graham. of course you are quite faithful to this woman you are in love with, darlington, to this good woman? lord darlington. cecil, if one really loves a woman, all other women in the world become absolutely meaningless to one. love changes one—_i_ am changed. cecil graham. dear me! how very interesting! tuppy, i want to talk to you. [lord augustus _takes no notice_.] dumby. it’s no use talking to tuppy. you might just as well talk to a brick wall. cecil graham. but i like talking to a brick wall—it’s the only thing in the world that never contradicts me! tuppy! lord augustus. well, what is it? what is it? [_rising and going over to_ cecil graham.] cecil graham. come over here. i want you particularly. [_aside_.] darlington has been moralising and talking about the purity of love, and that sort of thing, and he has got some woman in his rooms all the time. lord augustus. no, really! really! cecil graham. [_in a low voice_.] yes, here is her fan. [_points to the fan_.] lord augustus. [_chuckling_.] by jove! by jove! lord windermere. [_up by door_.] i am really off now, lord darlington. i am sorry you are leaving england so soon. pray call on us when you come back! my wife and i will be charmed to see you! lord darlington. [_upstage with_ lord windermere.] i am afraid i shall be away for many years. good-night! cecil graham. arthur! lord windermere. what? cecil graham. i want to speak to you for a moment. no, do come! lord windermere. [_putting on his coat_.] i can’t—i’m off! cecil graham. it is something very particular. it will interest you enormously. lord windermere. [_smiling_.] it is some of your nonsense, cecil. cecil graham. it isn’t! it isn’t really. lord augustus. [_going to him_.] my dear fellow, you mustn’t go yet. i have a lot to talk to you about. and cecil has something to show you. lord windermere. [_walking over_.] well, what is it? cecil graham. darlington has got a woman here in his rooms. here is her fan. amusing, isn’t it? [_a pause_.] lord windermere. good god! [_seizes the fan_—dumby _rises_.] cecil graham. what is the matter? lord windermere. lord darlington! lord darlington. [_turning round_.] yes! lord windermere. what is my wife’s fan doing here in your rooms? hands off, cecil. don’t touch me. lord darlington. your wife’s fan? lord windermere. yes, here it is! lord darlington. [_walking towards him_.] i don’t know! lord windermere. you must know. i demand an explanation. don’t hold me, you fool. [_to_ cecil graham.] lord darlington. [_aside_.] she is here after all! lord windermere. speak, sir! why is my wife’s fan here? answer me! by god! i’ll search your rooms, and if my wife’s here, i’ll— [_moves_.] lord darlington. you shall not search my rooms. you have no right to do so. i forbid you! lord windermere. you scoundrel! i’ll not leave your room till i have searched every corner of it! what moves behind that curtain? [_rushes towards the curtain c._] mrs. erlynne. [_enters behind r._] lord windermere! lord windermere. mrs. erlynne! [_every one starts and turns round_. lady windermere _slips out from behind the curtain and glides from the room l._] mrs. erlynne. i am afraid i took your wife’s fan in mistake for my own, when i was leaving your house to-night. i am so sorry. [_takes fan from him_. lord windermere _looks at her in contempt_. lord darlington _in mingled astonishment and anger_. lord augustus _turns away_. _the other men smile at each other_.] act drop. fourth act scene—same as in act i. lady windermere. [_lying on sofa_.] how can i tell him? i can’t tell him. it would kill me. i wonder what happened after i escaped from that horrible room. perhaps she told them the true reason of her being there, and the real meaning of that—fatal fan of mine. oh, if he knows—how can i look him in the face again? he would never forgive me. [_touches bell_.] how securely one thinks one lives—out of reach of temptation, sin, folly. and then suddenly—oh! life is terrible. it rules us, we do not rule it. [_enter_ rosalie _r._] rosalie. did your ladyship ring for me? lady windermere. yes. have you found out at what time lord windermere came in last night? rosalie. his lordship did not come in till five o’clock. lady windermere. five o’clock? he knocked at my door this morning, didn’t he? rosalie. yes, my lady—at half-past nine. i told him your ladyship was not awake yet. lady windermere. did he say anything? rosalie. something about your ladyship’s fan. i didn’t quite catch what his lordship said. has the fan been lost, my lady? i can’t find it, and parker says it was not left in any of the rooms. he has looked in all of them and on the terrace as well. lady windermere. it doesn’t matter. tell parker not to trouble. that will do. [_exit_ rosalie.] lady windermere. [_rising_.] she is sure to tell him. i can fancy a person doing a wonderful act of self-sacrifice, doing it spontaneously, recklessly, nobly—and afterwards finding out that it costs too much. why should she hesitate between her ruin and mine? . . . how strange! i would have publicly disgraced her in my own house. she accepts public disgrace in the house of another to save me. . . . there is a bitter irony in things, a bitter irony in the way we talk of good and bad women. . . . oh, what a lesson! and what a pity that in life we only get our lessons when they are of no use to us! for even if she doesn’t tell, i must. oh! the shame of it, the shame of it. to tell it is to live through it all again. actions are the first tragedy in life, words are the second. words are perhaps the worst. words are merciless. . . . oh! [_starts as_ lord windermere _enters_.] lord windermere. [_kisses her_.] margaret—how pale you look! lady windermere. i slept very badly. lord windermere. [_sitting on sofa with her_.] i am so sorry. i came in dreadfully late, and didn’t like to wake you. you are crying, dear. lady windermere. yes, i am crying, for i have something to tell you, arthur. lord windermere. my dear child, you are not well. you’ve been doing too much. let us go away to the country. you’ll be all right at selby. the season is almost over. there is no use staying on. poor darling! we’ll go away to-day, if you like. [_rises_.] we can easily catch the <UNK> i’ll send a wire to fannen. [_crosses and sits down at table to write a telegram_.] lady windermere. yes; let us go away to-day. no; i can’t go to-day, arthur. there is some one i must see before i leave town—some one who has been kind to me. lord windermere. [_rising and leaning over sofa_.] kind to you? lady windermere. far more than that. [_rises and goes to him_.] i will tell you, arthur, but only love me, love me as you used to love me. lord windermere. used to? you are not thinking of that wretched woman who came here last night? [_coming round and sitting r. of her_.] you don’t still imagine—no, you couldn’t. lady windermere. i don’t. i know now i was wrong and foolish. lord windermere. it was very good of you to receive her last night—but you are never to see her again. lady windermere. why do you say that? [_a pause_.] lord windermere. [_holding her hand_.] margaret, i thought mrs. erlynne was a woman more sinned against than sinning, as the phrase goes. i thought she wanted to be good, to get back into a place that she had lost by a moment’s folly, to lead again a decent life. i believed what she told me—i was mistaken in her. she is bad—as bad as a woman can be. lady windermere. arthur, arthur, don’t talk so bitterly about any woman. i don’t think now that people can be divided into the good and the bad as though they were two separate races or creations. what are called good women may have terrible things in them, mad moods of recklessness, assertion, jealousy, sin. bad women, as they are termed, may have in them sorrow, repentance, pity, sacrifice. and i don’t think mrs. erlynne a bad woman—i know she’s not. lord windermere. my dear child, the woman’s impossible. no matter what harm she tries to do us, you must never see her again. she is inadmissible anywhere. lady windermere. but i want to see her. i want her to come here. lord windermere. never! lady windermere. she came here once as _your_ guest. she must come now as _mine_. that is but fair. lord windermere. she should never have come here. lady windermere. [_rising_.] it is too late, arthur, to say that now. [_moves away_.] lord windermere. [_rising_.] margaret, if you knew where mrs. erlynne went last night, after she left this house, you would not sit in the same room with her. it was absolutely shameless, the whole thing. lady windermere. arthur, i can’t bear it any longer. i must tell you. last night— [_enter_ parker _with a tray on which lie_ lady windermere’s _fan and a card_.] parker. mrs. erlynne has called to return your ladyship’s fan which she took away by mistake last night. mrs. erlynne has written a message on the card. lady windermere. oh, ask mrs. erlynne to be kind enough to come up. [_reads card_.] say i shall be very glad to see her. [_exit_ parker.] she wants to see me, arthur. lord windermere. [_takes card and looks at it_.] margaret, i _beg_ you not to. let me see her first, at any rate. she’s a very dangerous woman. she is the most dangerous woman i know. you don’t realise what you’re doing. lady windermere. it is right that i should see her. lord windermere. my child, you may be on the brink of a great sorrow. don’t go to meet it. it is absolutely necessary that i should see her before you do. lady windermere. why should it be necessary? [_enter_ parker.] parker. mrs. erlynne. [_enter_ mrs. erlynne.] [_exit_ parker.] mrs. erlynne. how do you do, lady windermere? [_to_ lord windermere.] how do you do? do you know, lady windermere, i am so sorry about your fan. i can’t imagine how i made such a silly mistake. most stupid of me. and as i was driving in your direction, i thought i would take the opportunity of returning your property in person with many apologies for my carelessness, and of bidding you good-bye. lady windermere. good-bye? [_moves towards sofa with_ mrs. erlynne _and sits down beside her_.] are you going away, then, mrs. erlynne? mrs. erlynne. yes; i am going to live abroad again. the english climate doesn’t suit me. my—heart is affected here, and that i don’t like. i prefer living in the south. london is too full of fogs and—and serious people, lord windermere. whether the fogs produce the serious people or whether the serious people produce the fogs, i don’t know, but the whole thing rather gets on my nerves, and so i’m leaving this afternoon by the club train. lady windermere. this afternoon? but i wanted so much to come and see you. mrs. erlynne. how kind of you! but i am afraid i have to go. lady windermere. shall i never see you again, mrs. erlynne? mrs. erlynne. i am afraid not. our lives lie too far apart. but there is a little thing i would like you to do for me. i want a photograph of you, lady windermere—would you give me one? you don’t know how gratified i should be. lady windermere. oh, with pleasure. there is one on that table. i’ll show it to you. [_goes across to the table_.] lord windermere. [_coming up to_ mrs. erlynne _and speaking in a low voice_.] it is monstrous your intruding yourself here after your conduct last night. mrs. erlynne. [_with an amused smile_.] my dear windermere, manners before morals! lady windermere. [_returning_.] i’m afraid it is very flattering—i am not so pretty as that. [_showing photograph_.] mrs. erlynne. you are much prettier. but haven’t you got one of yourself with your little boy? lady windermere. i have. would you prefer one of those? mrs. erlynne. yes. lady windermere. i’ll go and get it for you, if you’ll excuse me for a moment. i have one upstairs. mrs. erlynne. so sorry, lady windermere, to give you so much trouble. lady windermere. [_moves to door r._] no trouble at all, mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. thanks so much. [_exit_ lady windermere _r._] you seem rather out of temper this morning, windermere. why should you be? margaret and i get on charmingly together. lord windermere. i can’t bear to see you with her. besides, you have not told me the truth, mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. i have not told _her_ the truth, you mean. lord windermere. [_standing c._] i sometimes wish you had. i should have been spared then the misery, the anxiety, the annoyance of the last six months. but rather than my wife should know—that the mother whom she was taught to consider as dead, the mother whom she has mourned as dead, is living—a divorced woman, going about under an assumed name, a bad woman preying upon life, as i know you now to be—rather than that, i was ready to supply you with money to pay bill after bill, extravagance after extravagance, to risk what occurred yesterday, the first quarrel i have ever had with my wife. you don’t understand what that means to me. how could you? but i tell you that the only bitter words that ever came from those sweet lips of hers were on your account, and i hate to see you next her. you sully the innocence that is in her. [_moves l.c._] and then i used to think that with all your faults you were frank and honest. you are not. mrs. erlynne. why do you say that? lord windermere. you made me get you an invitation to my wife’s ball. mrs. erlynne. for my daughter’s ball—yes. lord windermere. you came, and within an hour of your leaving the house you are found in a man’s rooms—you are disgraced before every one. [_goes up stage c._] mrs. erlynne. yes. lord windermere. [_turning round on her_.] therefore i have a right to look upon you as what you are—a worthless, vicious woman. i have the right to tell you never to enter this house, never to attempt to come near my wife— mrs. erlynne. [_coldly_.] my daughter, you mean. lord windermere. you have no right to claim her as your daughter. you left her, abandoned her when she was but a child in the cradle, abandoned her for your lover, who abandoned you in turn. mrs. erlynne. [_rising_.] do you count that to his credit, lord windermere—or to mine? lord windermere. to his, now that i know you. mrs. erlynne. take care—you had better be careful. lord windermere. oh, i am not going to mince words for you. i know you thoroughly. mrs. erlynne. [_looks steadily at him_.] i question that. lord windermere. i _do_ know you. for twenty years of your life you lived without your child, without a thought of your child. one day you read in the papers that she had married a rich man. you saw your hideous chance. you knew that to spare her the ignominy of learning that a woman like you was her mother, i would endure anything. you began your blackmailing. mrs. erlynne. [_shrugging her shoulders_.] don’t use ugly words, windermere. they are vulgar. i saw my chance, it is true, and took it. lord windermere. yes, you took it—and spoiled it all last night by being found out. mrs. erlynne. [_with a strange smile_.] you are quite right, i spoiled it all last night. lord windermere. and as for your blunder in taking my wife’s fan from here and then leaving it about in darlington’s rooms, it is unpardonable. i can’t bear the sight of it now. i shall never let my wife use it again. the thing is soiled for me. you should have kept it and not brought it back. mrs. erlynne. i think i shall keep it. [_goes up_.] it’s extremely pretty. [_takes up fan_.] i shall ask margaret to give it to me. lord windermere. i hope my wife will give it you. mrs. erlynne. oh, i’m sure she will have no objection. lord windermere. i wish that at the same time she would give you a miniature she kisses every night before she prays—it’s the miniature of a young innocent-looking girl with beautiful _dark_ hair. mrs. erlynne. ah, yes, i remember. how long ago that seems! [_goes to sofa and sits down_.] it was done before i was married. dark hair and an innocent expression were the fashion then, windermere! [_a pause_.] lord windermere. what do you mean by coming here this morning? what is your object? [_crossing l.c. and sitting_.] mrs. erlynne. [_with a note of irony in her voice_.] to bid good-bye to my dear daughter, of course. [lord windermere _bites his under lip in anger_. mrs. erlynne _looks at him_, _and her voice and manner become serious_. _in her accents at she talks there is a note of deep tragedy_. _for a moment she reveals herself_.] oh, don’t imagine i am going to have a pathetic scene with her, weep on her neck and tell her who i am, and all that kind of thing. i have no ambition to play the part of a mother. only once in my life have i known a mother’s feelings. that was last night. they were terrible—they made me suffer—they made me suffer too much. for twenty years, as you say, i have lived childless,—i want to live childless still. [_hiding her feelings with a trivial laugh_.] besides, my dear windermere, how on earth could i pose as a mother with a grown-up daughter? margaret is twenty-one, and i have never admitted that i am more than twenty-nine, or thirty at the most. twenty-nine when there are pink shades, thirty when there are not. so you see what difficulties it would involve. no, as far as i am concerned, let your wife cherish the memory of this dead, stainless mother. why should i interfere with her illusions? i find it hard enough to keep my own. i lost one illusion last night. i thought i had no heart. i find i have, and a heart doesn’t suit me, windermere. somehow it doesn’t go with modern dress. it makes one look old. [_takes up hand-mirror from table and looks into it_.] and it spoils one’s career at critical moments. lord windermere. you fill me with horror—with absolute horror. mrs. erlynne. [_rising_.] i suppose, windermere, you would like me to retire into a convent, or become a hospital nurse, or something of that kind, as people do in silly modern novels. that is stupid of you, arthur; in real life we don’t do such things—not as long as we have any good looks left, at any rate. no—what consoles one nowadays is not repentance, but pleasure. repentance is quite out of date. and besides, if a woman really repents, she has to go to a bad dressmaker, otherwise no one believes in her. and nothing in the world would induce me to do that. no; i am going to pass entirely out of your two lives. my coming into them has been a mistake—i discovered that last night. lord windermere. a fatal mistake. mrs. erlynne. [_smiling_.] almost fatal. lord windermere. i am sorry now i did not tell my wife the whole thing at once. mrs. erlynne. i regret my bad actions. you regret your good ones—that is the difference between us. lord windermere. i don’t trust you. i _will_ tell my wife. it’s better for her to know, and from me. it will cause her infinite pain—it will humiliate her terribly, but it’s right that she should know. mrs. erlynne. you propose to tell her? lord windermere. i am going to tell her. mrs. erlynne. [_going up to him_.] if you do, i will make my name so infamous that it will mar every moment of her life. it will ruin her, and make her wretched. if you dare to tell her, there is no depth of degradation i will not sink to, no pit of shame i will not enter. you shall not tell her—i forbid you. lord windermere. why? mrs. erlynne. [_after a pause_.] if i said to you that i cared for her, perhaps loved her even—you would sneer at me, wouldn’t you? lord windermere. i should feel it was not true. a mother’s love means devotion, unselfishness, sacrifice. what could you know of such things? mrs. erlynne. you are right. what could i know of such things? don’t let us talk any more about it—as for telling my daughter who i am, that i do not allow. it is my secret, it is not yours. if i make up my mind to tell her, and i think i will, i shall tell her before i leave the house—if not, i shall never tell her. lord windermere. [_angrily_.] then let me beg of you to leave our house at once. i will make your excuses to margaret. [_enter_ lady windermere _r._ _she goes over to_ mrs. erlynne _with the photograph in her hand_. lord windermere _moves to back of sofa_, _and anxiously watches_ mrs. erlynne _as the scene progresses_.] lady windermere. i am so sorry, mrs. erlynne, to have kept you waiting. i couldn’t find the photograph anywhere. at last i discovered it in my husband’s dressing-room—he had stolen it. mrs. erlynne. [_takes the photograph from her and looks at it_.] i am not surprised—it is charming. [_goes over to sofa with_ lady windermere, _and sits down beside her_. _looks again at the photograph_.] and so that is your little boy! what is he called? lady windermere. gerard, after my dear father. mrs. erlynne. [_laying the photograph down_.] really? lady windermere. yes. if it had been a girl, i would have called it after my mother. my mother had the same name as myself, margaret. mrs. erlynne. my name is margaret too. lady windermere. indeed! mrs. erlynne. yes. [_pause_.] you are devoted to your mother’s memory, lady windermere, your husband tells me. lady windermere. we all have ideals in life. at least we all should have. mine is my mother. mrs. erlynne. ideals are dangerous things. realities are better. they wound, but they’re better. lady windermere. [_shaking her head_.] if i lost my ideals, i should lose everything. mrs. erlynne. everything? lady windermere. yes. [_pause_.] mrs. erlynne. did your father often speak to you of your mother? lady windermere. no, it gave him too much pain. he told me how my mother had died a few months after i was born. his eyes filled with tears as he spoke. then he begged me never to mention her name to him again. it made him suffer even to hear it. my father—my father really died of a broken heart. his was the most ruined life know. mrs. erlynne. [_rising_.] i am afraid i must go now, lady windermere. lady windermere. [_rising_.] oh no, don’t. mrs. erlynne. i think i had better. my carriage must have come back by this time. i sent it to lady jedburgh’s with a note. lady windermere. arthur, would you mind seeing if mrs. erlynne’s carriage has come back? mrs. erlynne. pray don’t trouble, lord windermere. lady windermere. yes, arthur, do go, please. [lord windermere _hesitated for a moment and looks at_ mrs. erlynne. _she remains quite impassive_. _he leaves the room_.] [_to_ mrs. erlynne.] oh! what am i to say to you? you saved me last night? [_goes towards her_.] mrs. erlynne. hush—don’t speak of it. lady windermere. i must speak of it. i can’t let you think that i am going to accept this sacrifice. i am not. it is too great. i am going to tell my husband everything. it is my duty. mrs. erlynne. it is not your duty—at least you have duties to others besides him. you say you owe me something? lady windermere. i owe you everything. mrs. erlynne. then pay your debt by silence. that is the only way in which it can be paid. don’t spoil the one good thing i have done in my life by telling it to any one. promise me that what passed last night will remain a secret between us. you must not bring misery into your husband’s life. why spoil his love? you must not spoil it. love is easily killed. oh! how easily love is killed. pledge me your word, lady windermere, that you will never tell him. i insist upon it. lady windermere. [_with bowed head_.] it is your will, not mine. mrs. erlynne. yes, it is my will. and never forget your child—i like to think of you as a mother. i like you to think of yourself as one. lady windermere. [_looking up_.] i always will now. only once in my life i have forgotten my own mother—that was last night. oh, if i had remembered her i should not have been so foolish, so wicked. mrs. erlynne. [_with a slight shudder_.] hush, last night is quite over. [_enter_ lord windermere.] lord windermere. your carriage has not come back yet, mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. it makes no matter. i’ll take a hansom. there is nothing in the world so respectable as a good shrewsbury and talbot. and now, dear lady windermere, i am afraid it is really good-bye. [_moves up c._] oh, i remember. you’ll think me absurd, but do you know i’ve taken a great fancy to this fan that i was silly enough to run away with last night from your ball. now, i wonder would you give it to me? lord windermere says you may. i know it is his present. lady windermere. oh, certainly, if it will give you any pleasure. but it has my name on it. it has ‘margaret’ on it. mrs. erlynne. but we have the same christian name. lady windermere. oh, i forgot. of course, do have it. what a wonderful chance our names being the same! mrs. erlynne. quite wonderful. thanks—it will always remind me of you. [_shakes hands with her_.] [_enter_ parker.] parker. lord augustus lorton. mrs. erlynne’s carriage has come. [_enter_ lord augustus.] lord augustus. good morning, dear boy. good morning, lady windermere. [_sees_ mrs. erlynne.] mrs. erlynne! mrs. erlynne. how do you do, lord augustus? are you quite well this morning? lord augustus. [_coldly_.] quite well, thank you, mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. you don’t look at all well, lord augustus. you stop up too late—it is so bad for you. you really should take more care of yourself. good-bye, lord windermere. [_goes towards door with a bow to_ lord augustus. _suddenly smiles and looks back at him_.] lord augustus! won’t you see me to my carriage? you might carry the fan. lord windermere. allow me! mrs. erlynne. no; i want lord augustus. i have a special message for the dear duchess. won’t you carry the fan, lord augustus? lord augustus. if you really desire it, mrs. erlynne. mrs. erlynne. [_laughing_.] of course i do. you’ll carry it so gracefully. you would carry off anything gracefully, dear lord augustus. [_when she reaches the door she looks back for a moment at_ lady windermere. _their eyes meet_. _then she turns_, _and exit c. followed by_ lord augustus.] lady windermere. you will never speak against mrs. erlynne again, arthur, will you? lord windermere. [_gravely_.] she is better than one thought her. lady windermere. she is better than i am. lord windermere. [_smiling as he strokes her hair_.] child, you and she belong to different worlds. into your world evil has never entered. lady windermere. don’t say that, arthur. there is the same world for all of us, and good and evil, sin and innocence, go through it hand in hand. to shut one’s eyes to half of life that one may live securely is as though one blinded oneself that one might walk with more safety in a land of pit and precipice. lord windermere. [_moves down with her_.] darling, why do you say that? lady windermere. [_sits on sofa_.] because i, who had shut my eyes to life, came to the brink. and one who had separated us— lord windermere. we were never separated. lady windermere. we never must be again. o arthur, don’t love me less, and i will trust you more. i will trust you absolutely. let us go to selby. in the rose garden at selby the roses are white and red. [_enter_ lord augustus _c._] lord augustus. arthur, she has explained everything! [lady windermere _looks horribly frightened at this_. lord windermere _starts_. lord augustus _takes_ windermere _by the arm and brings him to front of stage_. _he talks rapidly and in a low voice_. lady windermere _stands watching them in terror_.] my dear fellow, she has explained every demmed thing. we all wronged her immensely. it was entirely for my sake she went to darlington’s rooms. called first at the club—fact is, wanted to put me out of suspense—and being told i had gone on—followed—naturally frightened when she heard a lot of us coming in—retired to another room—i assure you, most gratifying to me, the whole thing. we all behaved brutally to her. she is just the woman for me. suits me down to the ground. all the conditions she makes are that we live entirely out of england. a very good thing too. demmed clubs, demmed climate, demmed cooks, demmed everything. sick of it all! lady windermere. [_frightened_.] has mrs. erlynne—? lord augustus. [_advancing towards her with a low bow_.] yes, lady windermere— mrs. erlynne has done me the honour of accepting my hand. lord windermere. well, you are certainly marrying a very clever woman! lady windermere. [_taking her husband’s hand_.] ah, you’re marrying a very good woman!

<|EndOfText|>

scene _lawn in front of the terrace at hunstanton_. [sir john _and_ lady caroline pontefract, miss worsley, _on chairs under large yew tree_.] lady caroline. i believe this is the first english country house you have stayed at, miss worsley? hester. yes, lady caroline. lady caroline. you have no country houses, i am told, in america? hester. we have not many. lady caroline. have you any country? what we should call country? hester. [_smiling_.] we have the largest country in the world, lady caroline. they used to tell us at school that some of our states are as big as france and england put together. lady caroline. ah! you must find it very draughty, i should fancy. [_to_ sir john.] john, you should have your muffler. what is the use of my always knitting mufflers for you if you won’t wear them? sir john. i am quite warm, caroline, i assure you. lady caroline. i think not, john. well, you couldn’t come to a more charming place than this, miss worsley, though the house is excessively damp, quite unpardonably damp, and dear lady hunstanton is sometimes a little lax about the people she asks down here. [_to_ sir john.] jane mixes too much. lord illingworth, of course, is a man of high distinction. it is a privilege to meet him. and that member of parliament, mr. kettle— sir john. kelvil, my love, kelvil. lady caroline. he must be quite respectable. one has never heard his name before in the whole course of one’s life, which speaks volumes for a man, nowadays. but mrs. allonby is hardly a very suitable person. hester. i dislike mrs. allonby. i dislike her more than i can say. lady caroline. i am not sure, miss worsley, that foreigners like yourself should cultivate likes or dislikes about the people they are invited to meet. mrs. allonby is very well born. she is a niece of lord brancaster’s. it is said, of course, that she ran away twice before she was married. but you know how unfair people often are. i myself don’t believe she ran away more than once. hester. mr. arbuthnot is very charming. lady caroline. ah, yes! the young man who has a post in a bank. lady hunstanton is most kind in asking him here, and lord illingworth seems to have taken quite a fancy to him. i am not sure, however, that jane is right in taking him out of his position. in my young days, miss worsley, one never met any one in society who worked for their living. it was not considered the thing. hester. in america those are the people we respect most. lady caroline. i have no doubt of it. hester. mr. arbuthnot has a beautiful nature! he is so simple, so sincere. he has one of the most beautiful natures i have ever come across. it is a privilege to meet _him_. lady caroline. it is not customary in england, miss worsley, for a young lady to speak with such enthusiasm of any person of the opposite sex. english women conceal their feelings till after they are married. they show them then. hester. do you, in england, allow no friendship to exist between a young man and a young girl? [_enter_ lady hunstanton, _followed by footman with shawls and a cushion_.] lady caroline. we think it very inadvisable. jane, i was just saying what a pleasant party you have asked us to meet. you have a wonderful power of selection. it is quite a gift. lady hunstanton. dear caroline, how kind of you! i think we all do fit in very nicely together. and i hope our charming american visitor will carry back pleasant recollections of our english country life. [_to footman_.] the cushion, there, francis. and my shawl. the shetland. get the shetland. [_exit footman for shawl_.] [_enter_ gerald arbuthnot.] gerald. lady hunstanton, i have such good news to tell you. lord illingworth has just offered to make me his secretary. lady hunstanton. his secretary? that is good news indeed, gerald. it means a very brilliant future in store for you. your dear mother will be delighted. i really must try and induce her to come up here to-night. do you think she would, gerald? i know how difficult it is to get her to go anywhere. gerald. oh! i am sure she would, lady hunstanton, if she knew lord illingworth had made me such an offer. [_enter footman with shawl_.] lady hunstanton. i will write and tell her about it, and ask her to come up and meet him. [_to footman_.] just wait, francis. [_writes letter_.] lady caroline. that is a very wonderful opening for so young a man as you are, mr. arbuthnot. gerald. it is indeed, lady caroline. i trust i shall be able to show myself worthy of it. lady caroline. i trust so. gerald. [_to_ hester.] _you_ have not congratulated me yet, miss worsley. hester. are you very pleased about it? gerald. of course i am. it means everything to me—things that were out of the reach of hope before may be within hope’s reach now. hester. nothing should be out of the reach of hope. life is a hope. lady hunstanton. i fancy, caroline, that diplomacy is what lord illingworth is aiming at. i heard that he was offered vienna. but that may not be true. lady caroline. i don’t think that england should be represented abroad by an unmarried man, jane. it might lead to complications. lady hunstanton. you are too nervous, caroline. believe me, you are too nervous. besides, lord illingworth may marry any day. i was in hopes he would have married lady kelso. but i believe he said her family was too large. or was it her feet? i forget which. i regret it very much. she was made to be an ambassador’s wife. lady caroline. she certainly has a wonderful faculty of remembering people’s names, and forgetting their faces. lady hunstanton. well, that is very natural, caroline, is it not? [_to footman_.] tell henry to wait for an answer. i have written a line to your dear mother, gerald, to tell her your good news, and to say she really must come to dinner. [_exit footman_.] gerald. that is awfully kind of you, lady hunstanton. [_to_ hester.] will you come for a stroll, miss worsley? hester. with pleasure. [_exit with_ gerald.] lady hunstanton. i am very much gratified at gerald arbuthnot’s good fortune. he is quite a _protégé_ of mine. and i am particularly pleased that lord illingworth should have made the offer of his own accord without my suggesting anything. nobody likes to be asked favours. i remember poor charlotte pagden making herself quite unpopular one season, because she had a french governess she wanted to recommend to every one. lady caroline. i saw the governess, jane. lady pagden sent her to me. it was before eleanor came out. she was far too good-looking to be in any respectable household. i don’t wonder lady pagden was so anxious to get rid of her. lady hunstanton. ah, that explains it. lady caroline. john, the grass is too damp for you. you had better go and put on your overshoes at once. sir john. i am quite comfortable, caroline, i assure you. lady caroline. you must allow me to be the best judge of that, john. pray do as i tell you. [sir john _gets up and goes off_.] lady hunstanton. you spoil him, caroline, you do indeed! [_enter_ mrs. allonby _and_ lady stutfield.] [_to_ mrs. allonby.] well, dear, i hope you like the park. it is said to be well timbered. mrs. allonby. the trees are wonderful, lady hunstanton. lady stutfield. quite, quite wonderful. mrs. allonby. but somehow, i feel sure that if i lived in the country for six months, i should become so unsophisticated that no one would take the slightest notice of me. lady hunstanton. i assure you, dear, that the country has not that effect at all. why, it was from melthorpe, which is only two miles from here, that lady belton eloped with lord fethersdale. i remember the occurrence perfectly. poor lord belton died three days afterwards of joy, or gout. i forget which. we had a large party staying here at the time, so we were all very much interested in the whole affair. mrs. allonby. i think to elope is cowardly. it’s running away from danger. and danger has become so rare in modern life. lady caroline. as far as i can make out, the young women of the present day seem to make it the sole object of their lives to be always playing with fire. mrs. allonby. the one advantage of playing with fire, lady caroline, is that one never gets even singed. it is the people who don’t know how to play with it who get burned up. lady stutfield. yes; i see that. it is very, very helpful. lady hunstanton. i don’t know how the world would get on with such a theory as that, dear mrs. allonby. lady stutfield. ah! the world was made for men and not for women. mrs. allonby. oh, don’t say that, lady stutfield. we have a much better time than they have. there are far more things forbidden to us than are forbidden to them. lady stutfield. yes; that is quite, quite true. i had not thought of that. [_enter_ sir john _and_ mr. kelvil.] lady hunstanton. well, mr. kelvil, have you got through your work? kelvil. i have finished my writing for the day, lady hunstanton. it has been an arduous task. the demands on the time of a public man are very heavy nowadays, very heavy indeed. and i don’t think they meet with adequate recognition. lady caroline. john, have you got your overshoes on? sir john. yes, my love. lady caroline. i think you had better come over here, john. it is more sheltered. sir john. i am quite comfortable, caroline. lady caroline. i think not, john. you had better sit beside me. [sir john _rises and goes across_.] lady stutfield. and what have you been writing about this morning, mr. kelvil? kelvil. on the usual subject, lady stutfield. on purity. lady stutfield. that must be such a very, very interesting thing to write about. kelvil. it is the one subject of really national importance, nowadays, lady stutfield. i purpose addressing my constituents on the question before parliament meets. i find that the poorer classes of this country display a marked desire for a higher ethical standard. lady stutfield. how quite, quite nice of them. lady caroline. are you in favour of women taking part in politics, mr. kettle? sir john. kelvil, my love, kelvil. kelvil. the growing influence of women is the one reassuring thing in our political life, lady caroline. women are always on the side of morality, public and private. lady stutfield. it is so very, very gratifying to hear you say that. lady hunstanton. ah, yes!—the moral qualities in women—that is the important thing. i am afraid, caroline, that dear lord illingworth doesn’t value the moral qualities in women as much as he should. [_enter_ lord illingworth.] lady stutfield. the world says that lord illingworth is very, very wicked. lord illingworth. but what world says that, lady stutfield? it must be the next world. this world and i are on excellent terms. [_sits down beside_ mrs. allonby.] lady stutfield. every one _i_ know says you are very, very wicked. lord illingworth. it is perfectly monstrous the way people go about, nowadays, saying things against one behind one’s back that are absolutely and entirely true. lady hunstanton. dear lord illingworth is quite hopeless, lady stutfield. i have given up trying to reform him. it would take a public company with a board of directors and a paid secretary to do that. but you have the secretary already, lord illingworth, haven’t you? gerald arbuthnot has told us of his good fortune; it is really most kind of you. lord illingworth. oh, don’t say that, lady hunstanton. kind is a dreadful word. i took a great fancy to young arbuthnot the moment i met him, and he’ll be of considerable use to me in something i am foolish enough to think of doing. lady hunstanton. he is an admirable young man. and his mother is one of my dearest friends. he has just gone for a walk with our pretty american. she is very pretty, is she not? lady caroline. far too pretty. these american girls carry off all the good matches. why can’t they stay in their own country? they are always telling us it is the paradise of women. lord illingworth. it is, lady caroline. that is why, like eve, they are so extremely anxious to get out of it. lady caroline. who are miss worsley’s parents? lord illingworth. american women are wonderfully clever in concealing their parents. lady hunstanton. my dear lord illingworth, what do you mean? miss worsley, caroline, is an orphan. her father was a very wealthy millionaire or philanthropist, or both, i believe, who entertained my son quite hospitably, when he visited boston. i don’t know how he made his money, originally. kelvil. i fancy in american dry goods. lady hunstanton. what are american dry goods? lord illingworth. american novels. lady hunstanton. how very singular! . . . well, from whatever source her large fortune came, i have a great esteem for miss worsley. she dresses exceedingly well. all americans do dress well. they get their clothes in paris. mrs. allonby. they say, lady hunstanton, that when good americans die they go to paris. lady hunstanton. indeed? and when bad americans die, where do they go to? lord illingworth. oh, they go to america. kelvil. i am afraid you don’t appreciate america, lord illingworth. it is a very remarkable country, especially considering its youth. lord illingworth. the youth of america is their oldest tradition. it has been going on now for three hundred years. to hear them talk one would imagine they were in their first childhood. as far as civilisation goes they are in their second. kelvil. there is undoubtedly a great deal of corruption in american politics. i suppose you allude to that? lord illingworth. i wonder. lady hunstanton. politics are in a sad way everywhere, i am told. they certainly are in england. dear mr. cardew is ruining the country. i wonder mrs. cardew allows him. i am sure, lord illingworth, you don’t think that uneducated people should be allowed to have votes? lord illingworth. i think they are the only people who should. kelvil. do you take no side then in modern politics, lord illingworth? lord illingworth. one should never take sides in anything, mr. kelvil. taking sides is the beginning of sincerity, and earnestness follows shortly afterwards, and the human being becomes a bore. however, the house of commons really does very little harm. you can’t make people good by act of parliament,—that is something. kelvil. you cannot deny that the house of commons has always shown great sympathy with the sufferings of the poor. lord illingworth. that is its special vice. that is the special vice of the age. one should sympathise with the joy, the beauty, the colour of life. the less said about life’s sores the better, mr. kelvil. kelvil. still our east end is a very important problem. lord illingworth. quite so. it is the problem of slavery. and we are trying to solve it by amusing the slaves. lady hunstanton. certainly, a great deal may be done by means of cheap entertainments, as you say, lord illingworth. dear dr. daubeny, our rector here, provides, with the assistance of his curates, really admirable recreations for the poor during the winter. and much good may be done by means of a magic lantern, or a missionary, or some popular amusement of that kind. lady caroline. i am not at all in favour of amusements for the poor, jane. blankets and coals are sufficient. there is too much love of pleasure amongst the upper classes as it is. health is what we want in modern life. the tone is not healthy, not healthy at all. kelvil. you are quite right, lady caroline. lady caroline. i believe i am usually right. mrs. allonby. horrid word ‘health.’ lord illingworth. silliest word in our language, and one knows so well the popular idea of health. the english country gentleman galloping after a fox—the unspeakable in full pursuit of the uneatable. kelvil. may i ask, lord illingworth, if you regard the house of lords as a better institution than the house of commons? lord illingworth. a much better institution, of course. we in the house of lords are never in touch with public opinion. that makes us a civilised body. kelvil. are you serious in putting forward such a view? lord illingworth. quite serious, mr. kelvil. [_to_ mrs. allonby.] vulgar habit that is people have nowadays of asking one, after one has given them an idea, whether one is serious or not. nothing is serious except passion. the intellect is not a serious thing, and never has been. it is an instrument on which one plays, that is all. the only serious form of intellect i know is the british intellect. and on the british intellect the illiterates play the drum. lady hunstanton. what are you saying, lord illingworth, about the drum? lord illingworth. i was merely talking to mrs. allonby about the leading articles in the london newspapers. lady hunstanton. but do you believe all that is written in the newspapers? lord illingworth. i do. nowadays it is only the unreadable that occurs. [_rises with_ mrs. allonby.] lady hunstanton. are you going, mrs. allonby? mrs. allonby. just as far as the conservatory. lord illingworth told me this morning that there was an orchid there as beautiful as the seven deadly sins. lady hunstanton. my dear, i hope there is nothing of the kind. i will certainly speak to the gardener. [_exit_ mrs. allonby _and_ lord illingworth.] lady caroline. remarkable type, mrs. allonby. lady hunstanton. she lets her clever tongue run away with her sometimes. lady caroline. is that the only thing, jane, mrs. allonby allows to run away with her? lady hunstanton. i hope so, caroline, i am sure. [_enter_ lord alfred.] dear lord alfred, do join us. [lord alfred _sits down beside_ lady stutfield.] lady caroline. you believe good of every one, jane. it is a great fault. lady stutfield. do you really, really think, lady caroline, that one should believe evil of every one? lady caroline. i think it is much safer to do so, lady stutfield. until, of course, people are found out to be good. but that requires a great deal of investigation nowadays. lady stutfield. but there is so much unkind scandal in modern life. lady caroline. lord illingworth remarked to me last night at dinner that the basis of every scandal is an absolutely immoral certainty. kelvil. lord illingworth is, of course, a very brilliant man, but he seems to me to be lacking in that fine faith in the nobility and purity of life which is so important in this century. lady stutfield. yes, quite, quite important, is it not? kelvil. he gives me the impression of a man who does not appreciate the beauty of our english home-life. i would say that he was tainted with foreign ideas on the subject. lady stutfield. there is nothing, nothing like the beauty of home-life, is there? kelvil. it is the mainstay of our moral system in england, lady stutfield. without it we would become like our neighbours. lady stutfield. that would be so, so sad, would it not? kelvil. i am afraid, too, that lord illingworth regards woman simply as a toy. now, i have never regarded woman as a toy. woman is the intellectual helpmeet of man in public as in private life. without her we should forget the true ideals. [_sits down beside_ lady stutfield.] lady stutfield. i am so very, very glad to hear you say that. lady caroline. you a married man, mr. kettle? sir john. kelvil, dear, kelvil. kelvil. i am married, lady caroline. lady caroline. family? kelvil. yes. lady caroline. how many? kelvil. eight. [lady stutfield _turns her attention to_ lord alfred.] lady caroline. mrs. kettle and the children are, i suppose, at the seaside? [sir john _shrugs his shoulders_.] kelvil. my wife is at the seaside with the children, lady caroline. lady caroline. you will join them later on, no doubt? kelvil. if my public engagements permit me. lady caroline. your public life must be a great source of gratification to mrs. kettle. sir john. kelvil, my love, kelvil. lady stutfield. [_to_ lord alfred.] how very, very charming those gold-tipped cigarettes of yours are, lord alfred. lord alfred. they are awfully expensive. i can only afford them when i’m in debt. lady stutfield. it must be terribly, terribly distressing to be in debt. lord alfred. one must have some occupation nowadays. if i hadn’t my debts i shouldn’t have anything to think about. all the chaps i know are in debt. lady stutfield. but don’t the people to whom you owe the money give you a great, great deal of annoyance? [_enter footman_.] lord alfred. oh, no, they write; i don’t. lady stutfield. how very, very strange. lady hunstanton. ah, here is a letter, caroline, from dear mrs. arbuthnot. she won’t dine. i am so sorry. but she will come in the evening. i am very pleased indeed. she is one of the sweetest of women. writes a beautiful hand, too, so large, so firm. [_hands letter to_ lady caroline.] lady caroline. [_looking at it_.] a little lacking in femininity, jane. femininity is the quality i admire most in women. lady hunstanton. [_taking back letter and leaving it on table_.] oh! she is very feminine, caroline, and so good too. you should hear what the archdeacon says of her. he regards her as his right hand in the parish. [_footman speaks to her_.] in the yellow drawing-room. shall we all go in? lady stutfield, shall we go in to tea? lady stutfield. with pleasure, lady hunstanton. [_they rise and proceed to go off_. sir john offers to carry lady stutfield’s cloak.] lady caroline. john! if you would allow your nephew to look after lady stutfield’s cloak, you might help me with my workbasket. [_enter_ lord illingworth _and_ mrs. allonby.] sir john. certainly, my love. [_exeunt_.] mrs. allonby. curious thing, plain women are always jealous of their husbands, beautiful women never are! lord illingworth. beautiful women never have time. they are always so occupied in being jealous of other people’s husbands. mrs. allonby. i should have thought lady caroline would have grown tired of conjugal anxiety by this time! sir john is her fourth! lord illingworth. so much marriage is certainly not becoming. twenty years of romance make a woman look like a ruin; but twenty years of marriage make her something like a public building. mrs. allonby. twenty years of romance! is there such a thing? lord illingworth. not in our day. women have become too brilliant. nothing spoils a romance so much as a sense of humour in the woman. mrs. allonby. or the want of it in the man. lord illingworth. you are quite right. in a temple every one should be serious, except the thing that is worshipped. mrs. allonby. and that should be man? lord illingworth. women kneel so gracefully; men don’t. mrs. allonby. you are thinking of lady stutfield! lord illingworth. i assure you i have not thought of lady stutfield for the last quarter of an hour. mrs. allonby. is she such a mystery? lord illingworth. she is more than a mystery—she is a mood. mrs. allonby. moods don’t last. lord illingworth. it is their chief charm. [_enter_ hester _and_ gerald.] gerald. lord illingworth, every one has been congratulating me, lady hunstanton and lady caroline, and . . . every one. i hope i shall make a good secretary. lord illingworth. you will be the pattern secretary, gerald. [_talks to him_.] mrs. allonby. you enjoy country life, miss worsley? hester. very much indeed. mrs. allonby. don’t find yourself longing for a london dinner-party? hester. i dislike london dinner-parties. mrs. allonby. i adore them. the clever people never listen, and the stupid people never talk. hester. i think the stupid people talk a great deal. mrs. allonby. ah, i never listen! lord illingworth. my dear boy, if i didn’t like you i wouldn’t have made you the offer. it is because i like you so much that i want to have you with me. [_exit_ hester _with_ gerald.] charming fellow, gerald arbuthnot! mrs. allonby. he is very nice; very nice indeed. but i can’t stand the american young lady. lord illingworth. why? mrs. allonby. she told me yesterday, and in quite a loud voice too, that she was only eighteen. it was most annoying. lord illingworth. one should never trust a woman who tells one her real age. a woman who would tell one that, would tell one anything. mrs. allonby. she is a puritan besides— lord illingworth. ah, that is inexcusable. i don’t mind plain women being puritans. it is the only excuse they have for being plain. but she is decidedly pretty. i admire her immensely. [_looks steadfastly at_ mrs. allonby.] mrs. allonby. what a thoroughly bad man you must be! lord illingworth. what do you call a bad man? mrs. allonby. the sort of man who admires innocence. lord illingworth. and a bad woman? mrs. allonby. oh! the sort of woman a man never gets tired of. lord illingworth. you are severe—on yourself. mrs. allonby. define us as a sex. lord illingworth. sphinxes without secrets. mrs. allonby. does that include the puritan women? lord illingworth. do you know, i don’t believe in the existence of puritan women? i don’t think there is a woman in the world who would not be a little flattered if one made love to her. it is that which makes women so irresistibly adorable. mrs. allonby. you think there is no woman in the world who would object to being kissed? lord illingworth. very few. mrs. allonby. miss worsley would not let you kiss her. lord illingworth. are you sure? mrs. allonby. quite. lord illingworth. what do you think she’d do if i kissed her? mrs. allonby. either marry you, or strike you across the face with her glove. what would you do if she struck you across the face with her glove? lord illingworth. fall in love with her, probably. mrs. allonby. then it is lucky you are not going to kiss her! lord illingworth. is that a challenge? mrs. allonby. it is an arrow shot into the air. lord illingworth. don’t you know that i always succeed in whatever i try? mrs. allonby. i am sorry to hear it. we women adore failures. they lean on us. lord illingworth. you worship successes. you cling to them. mrs. allonby. we are the laurels to hide their baldness. lord illingworth. and they need you always, except at the moment of triumph. mrs. allonby. they are uninteresting then. lord illingworth. how tantalising you are! [_a pause_.] mrs. allonby. lord illingworth, there is one thing i shall always like you for. lord illingworth. only one thing? and i have so many bad qualities. mrs. allonby. ah, don’t be too conceited about them. you may lose them as you grow old. lord illingworth. i never intend to grow old. the soul is born old but grows young. that is the comedy of life. mrs. allonby. and the body is born young and grows old. that is life’s tragedy. lord illingworth. its comedy also, sometimes. but what is the mysterious reason why you will always like me? mrs. allonby. it is that you have never made love to me. lord illingworth. i have never done anything else. mrs. allonby. really? i have not noticed it. lord illingworth. how fortunate! it might have been a tragedy for both of us. mrs. allonby. we should each have survived. lord illingworth. one can survive everything nowadays, except death, and live down anything except a good reputation. mrs. allonby. have you tried a good reputation? lord illingworth. it is one of the many annoyances to which i have never been subjected. mrs. allonby. it may come. lord illingworth. why do you threaten me? mrs. allonby. i will tell you when you have kissed the puritan. [_enter footman_.] francis. tea is served in the yellow drawing-room, my lord. lord illingworth. tell her ladyship we are coming in. francis. yes, my lord. [_exit_.] lord illingworth. shall we go in to tea? mrs. allonby. do you like such simple pleasures? lord illingworth. i adore simple pleasures. they are the last refuge of the complex. but, if you wish, let us stay here. yes, let us stay here. the book of life begins with a man and a woman in a garden. mrs. allonby. it ends with revelations. lord illingworth. you fence divinely. but the button has come of your foil. mrs. allonby. i have still the mask. lord illingworth. it makes your eyes lovelier. mrs. allonby. thank you. come. lord illingworth. [_sees_ mrs. arbuthnot’s _letter on table_, _and takes it up and looks at envelope_.] what a curious handwriting! it reminds me of the handwriting of a woman i used to know years ago. mrs. allonby. who? lord illingworth. oh! no one. no one in particular. a woman of no importance. [_throws letter down_, _and passes up the steps of the terrace with_ mrs. allonby. _they smile at each other_.] act drop. second act scene _drawing-room at hunstanton_, _after dinner_, _lamps lit_. _door_ l.c. _door_ r.c. [_ladies seated on sofas_.] mrs. allonby. what a comfort it is to have got rid of the men for a little! lady stutfield. yes; men persecute us dreadfully, don’t they? mrs. allonby. persecute us? i wish they did. lady hunstanton. my dear! mrs. allonby. the annoying thing is that the wretches can be perfectly happy without us. that is why i think it is every woman’s duty never to leave them alone for a single moment, except during this short breathing space after dinner; without which i believe we poor women would be absolutely worn to shadows. [_enter servants with coffee_.] lady hunstanton. worn to shadows, dear? mrs. allonby. yes, lady hunstanton. it is such a strain keeping men up to the mark. they are always trying to escape from us. lady stutfield. it seems to me that it is we who are always trying to escape from them. men are so very, very heartless. they know their power and use it. lady caroline. [_takes coffee from servant_.] what stuff and nonsense all this about men is! the thing to do is to keep men in their proper place. mrs. allonby. but what is their proper place, lady caroline? lady caroline. looking after their wives, mrs. allonby. mrs. allonby. [_takes coffee from servant_.] really? and if they’re not married? lady caroline. if they are not married, they should be looking after a wife. it’s perfectly scandalous the amount of bachelors who are going about society. there should be a law passed to compel them all to marry within twelve months. lady stutfield. [_refuses coffee_.] but if they’re in love with some one who, perhaps, is tied to another? lady caroline. in that case, lady stutfield, they should be married off in a week to some plain respectable girl, in order to teach them not to meddle with other people’s property. mrs. allonby. i don’t think that we should ever be spoken of as other people’s property. all men are married women’s property. that is the only true definition of what married women’s property really is. but we don’t belong to any one. lady stutfield. oh, i am so very, very glad to hear you say so. lady hunstanton. but do you really think, dear caroline, that legislation would improve matters in any way? i am told that, nowadays, all the married men live like bachelors, and all the bachelors like married men. mrs. allonby. i certainly never know one from the other. lady stutfield. oh, i think one can always know at once whether a man has home claims upon his life or not. i have noticed a very, very sad expression in the eyes of so many married men. mrs. allonby. ah, all that i have noticed is that they are horribly tedious when they are good husbands, and abominably conceited when they are not. lady hunstanton. well, i suppose the type of husband has completely changed since my young days, but i’m bound to state that poor dear hunstanton was the most delightful of creatures, and as good as gold. mrs. allonby. ah, my husband is a sort of promissory note; i’m tired of meeting him. lady caroline. but you renew him from time to time, don’t you? mrs. allonby. oh no, lady caroline. i have only had one husband as yet. i suppose you look upon me as quite an amateur. lady caroline. with your views on life i wonder you married at all. mrs. allonby. so do i. lady hunstanton. my dear child, i believe you are really very happy in your married life, but that you like to hide your happiness from others. mrs. allonby. i assure you i was horribly deceived in ernest. lady hunstanton. oh, i hope not, dear. i knew his mother quite well. she was a stratton, caroline, one of lord crowland’s daughters. lady caroline. victoria stratton? i remember her perfectly. a silly fair-haired woman with no chin. mrs. allonby. ah, ernest has a chin. he has a very strong chin, a square chin. ernest’s chin is far too square. lady stutfield. but do you really think a man’s chin can be too square? i think a man should look very, very strong, and that his chin should be quite, quite square. mrs. allonby. then you should certainly know ernest, lady stutfield. it is only fair to tell you beforehand he has got no conversation at all. lady stutfield. i adore silent men. mrs. allonby. oh, ernest isn’t silent. he talks the whole time. but he has got no conversation. what he talks about i don’t know. i haven’t listened to him for years. lady stutfield. have you never forgiven him then? how sad that seems! but all life is very, very sad, is it not? mrs. allonby. life, lady stutfield, is simply a _mauvais quart d’heure_ made up of exquisite moments. lady stutfield. yes, there are moments, certainly. but was it something very, very wrong that mr. allonby did? did he become angry with you, and say anything that was unkind or true? mrs. allonby. oh dear, no. ernest is invariably calm. that is one of the reasons he always gets on my nerves. nothing is so aggravating as calmness. there is something positively brutal about the good temper of most modern men. i wonder we women stand it as well as we do. lady stutfield. yes; men’s good temper shows they are not so sensitive as we are, not so finely strung. it makes a great barrier often between husband and wife, does it not? but i would so much like to know what was the wrong thing mr. allonby did. mrs. allonby. well, i will tell you, if you solemnly promise to tell everybody else. lady stutfield. thank you, thank you. i will make a point of repeating it. mrs. allonby. when ernest and i were engaged, he swore to me positively on his knees that he had never loved any one before in the whole course of his life. i was very young at the time, so i didn’t believe him, i needn’t tell you. unfortunately, however, i made no enquiries of any kind till after i had been actually married four or five months. i found out then that what he had told me was perfectly true. and that sort of thing makes a man so absolutely uninteresting. lady hunstanton. my dear! mrs. allonby. men always want to be a woman’s first love. that is their clumsy vanity. we women have a more subtle instinct about things. what we like is to be a man’s last romance. lady stutfield. i see what you mean. it’s very, very beautiful. lady hunstanton. my dear child, you don’t mean to tell me that you won’t forgive your husband because he never loved any one else? did you ever hear such a thing, caroline? i am quite surprised. lady caroline. oh, women have become so highly educated, jane, that nothing should surprise us nowadays, except happy marriages. they apparently are getting remarkably rare. mrs. allonby. oh, they’re quite out of date. lady stutfield. except amongst the middle classes, i have been told. mrs. allonby. how like the middle classes! lady stutfield. yes—is it not?—very, very like them. lady caroline. if what you tell us about the middle classes is true, lady stutfield, it redounds greatly to their credit. it is much to be regretted that in our rank of life the wife should be so persistently frivolous, under the impression apparently that it is the proper thing to be. it is to that i attribute the unhappiness of so many marriages we all know of in society. mrs. allonby. do you know, lady caroline, i don’t think the frivolity of the wife has ever anything to do with it. more marriages are ruined nowadays by the common sense of the husband than by anything else. how can a woman be expected to be happy with a man who insists on treating her as if she were a perfectly rational being? lady hunstanton. my dear! mrs. allonby. man, poor, awkward, reliable, necessary man belongs to a sex that has been rational for millions and millions of years. he can’t help himself. it is in his race. the history of woman is very different. we have always been picturesque protests against the mere existence of common sense. we saw its dangers from the first. lady stutfield. yes, the common sense of husbands is certainly most, most trying. do tell me your conception of the ideal husband. i think it would be so very, very helpful. mrs. allonby. the ideal husband? there couldn’t be such a thing. the institution is wrong. lady stutfield. the ideal man, then, in his relations to _us_. lady caroline. he would probably be extremely realistic. mrs. caroline. the ideal man! oh, the ideal man should talk to us as if we were goddesses, and treat us as if we were children. he should refuse all our serious requests, and gratify every one of our whims. he should encourage us to have caprices, and forbid us to have missions. he should always say much more than he means, and always mean much more than he says. lady hunstanton. but how could he do both, dear? mrs. allonby. he should never run down other pretty women. that would show he had no taste, or make one suspect that he had too much. no; he should be nice about them all, but say that somehow they don’t attract him. lady stutfield. yes, that is always very, very pleasant to hear about other women. mrs. allonby. if we ask him a question about anything, he should give us an answer all about ourselves. he should invariably praise us for whatever qualities he knows we haven’t got. but he should be pitiless, quite pitiless, in reproaching us for the virtues that we have never dreamed of possessing. he should never believe that we know the use of useful things. that would be unforgiveable. but he should shower on us everything we don’t want. lady caroline. as far as i can see, he is to do nothing but pay bills and compliments. mrs. allonby. he should persistently compromise us in public, and treat us with absolute respect when we are alone. and yet he should be always ready to have a perfectly terrible scene, whenever we want one, and to become miserable, absolutely miserable, at a moment’s notice, and to overwhelm us with just reproaches in less than twenty minutes, and to be positively violent at the end of half an hour, and to leave us for ever at a quarter to eight, when we have to go and dress for dinner. and when, after that, one has seen him for really the last time, and he has refused to take back the little things he has given one, and promised never to communicate with one again, or to write one any foolish letters, he should be perfectly broken-hearted, and telegraph to one all day long, and send one little notes every half-hour by a private hansom, and dine quite alone at the club, so that every one should know how unhappy he was. and after a whole dreadful week, during which one has gone about everywhere with one’s husband, just to show how absolutely lonely one was, he may be given a third last parting, in the evening, and then, if his conduct has been quite irreproachable, and one has behaved really badly to him, he should be allowed to admit that he has been entirely in the wrong, and when he has admitted that, it becomes a woman’s duty to forgive, and one can do it all over again from the beginning, with variations. lady hunstanton. how clever you are, my dear! you never mean a single word you say. lady stutfield. thank you, thank you. it has been quite, quite entrancing. i must try and remember it all. there are such a number of details that are so very, very important. lady caroline. but you have not told us yet what the reward of the ideal man is to be. mrs. allonby. his reward? oh, infinite expectation. that is quite enough for him. lady stutfield. but men are so terribly, terribly exacting, are they not? mrs. allonby. that makes no matter. one should never surrender. lady stutfield. not even to the ideal man? mrs. allonby. certainly not to him. unless, of course, one wants to grow tired of him. lady stutfield. oh! . . . yes. i see that. it is very, very helpful. do you think, mrs. allonby, i shall ever meet the ideal man? or are there more than one? mrs. allonby. there are just four in london, lady stutfield. lady hunstanton. oh, my dear! mrs. allonby. [_going over to her_.] what has happened? do tell me. lady hunstanton [_in a low voice_] i had completely forgotten that the american young lady has been in the room all the time. i am afraid some of this clever talk may have shocked her a little. mrs. allonby. ah, that will do her so much good! lady hunstanton. let us hope she didn’t understand much. i think i had better go over and talk to her. [_rises and goes across to_ hester worsley.] well, dear miss worsley. [_sitting down beside her_.] how quiet you have been in your nice little corner all this time! i suppose you have been reading a book? there are so many books here in the library. hester. no, i have been listening to the conversation. lady hunstanton. you mustn’t believe everything that was said, you know, dear. hester. i didn’t believe any of it lady hunstanton. that is quite right, dear. hester. [_continuing_.] i couldn’t believe that any women could really hold such views of life as i have heard to-night from some of your guests. [_an awkward pause_.] lady hunstanton. i hear you have such pleasant society in america. quite like our own in places, my son wrote to me. hester. there are cliques in america as elsewhere, lady hunstanton. but true american society consists simply of all the good women and good men we have in our country. lady hunstanton. what a sensible system, and i dare say quite pleasant too. i am afraid in england we have too many artificial social barriers. we don’t see as much as we should of the middle and lower classes. hester. in america we have no lower classes. lady hunstanton. really? what a very strange arrangement! mrs. allonby. what is that dreadful girl talking about? lady stutfield. she is painfully natural, is she not? lady caroline. there are a great many things you haven’t got in america, i am told, miss worsley. they say you have no ruins, and no curiosities. mrs. allonby. [_to_ lady stutfield.] what nonsense! they have their mothers and their manners. hester. the english aristocracy supply us with our curiosities, lady caroline. they are sent over to us every summer, regularly, in the steamers, and propose to us the day after they land. as for ruins, we are trying to build up something that will last longer than brick or stone. [_gets up to take her fan from table_.] lady hunstanton. what is that, dear? ah, yes, an iron exhibition, is it not, at that place that has the curious name? hester. [_standing by table_.] we are trying to build up life, lady hunstanton, on a better, truer, purer basis than life rests on here. this sounds strange to you all, no doubt. how could it sound other than strange? you rich people in england, you don’t know how you are living. how could you know? you shut out from your society the gentle and the good. you laugh at the simple and the pure. living, as you all do, on others and by them, you sneer at self-sacrifice, and if you throw bread to the poor, it is merely to keep them quiet for a season. with all your pomp and wealth and art you don’t know how to live—you don’t even know that. you love the beauty that you can see and touch and handle, the beauty that you can destroy, and do destroy, but of the unseen beauty of life, of the unseen beauty of a higher life, you know nothing. you have lost life’s secret. oh, your english society seems to me shallow, selfish, foolish. it has blinded its eyes, and stopped its ears. it lies like a leper in purple. it sits like a dead thing smeared with gold. it is all wrong, all wrong. lady stutfield. i don’t think one should know of these things. it is not very, very nice, is it? lady hunstanton. my dear miss worsley, i thought you liked english society so much. you were such a success in it. and you were so much admired by the best people. i quite forget what lord henry weston said of you—but it was most complimentary, and you know what an authority he is on beauty. hester. lord henry weston! i remember him, lady hunstanton. a man with a hideous smile and a hideous past. he is asked everywhere. no dinner-party is complete without him. what of those whose ruin is due to him? they are outcasts. they are nameless. if you met them in the street you would turn your head away. i don’t complain of their punishment. let all women who have sinned be punished. [mrs. arbuthnot _enters from terrace behind in a cloak with a lace veil over her head_. _she hears the last words and starts_.] lady hunstanton. my dear young lady! hester. it is right that they should be punished, but don’t let them be the only ones to suffer. if a man and woman have sinned, let them both go forth into the desert to love or loathe each other there. let them both be branded. set a mark, if you wish, on each, but don’t punish the one and let the other go free. don’t have one law for men and another for women. you are unjust to women in england. and till you count what is a shame in a woman to be an infamy in a man, you will always be unjust, and right, that pillar of fire, and wrong, that pillar of cloud, will be made dim to your eyes, or be not seen at all, or if seen, not regarded. lady caroline. might i, dear miss worsley, as you are standing up, ask you for my cotton that is just behind you? thank you. lady hunstanton. my dear mrs. arbuthnot! i am so pleased you have come up. but i didn’t hear you announced. mrs. allonby. oh, i came straight in from the terrace, lady hunstanton, just as i was. you didn’t tell me you had a party. lady hunstanton. not a party. only a few guests who are staying in the house, and whom you must know. allow me. [_tries to help her_. _rings bell_.] caroline, this is mrs. arbuthnot, one of my sweetest friends. lady caroline pontefract, lady stutfield, mrs. allonby, and my young american friend, miss worsley, who has just been telling us all how wicked we are. hester. i am afraid you think i spoke too strongly, lady hunstanton. but there are some things in england— lady hunstanton. my dear young lady, there was a great deal of truth, i dare say, in what you said, and you looked very pretty while you said it, which is much more important, lord illingworth would tell us. the only point where i thought you were a little hard was about lady caroline’s brother, about poor lord henry. he is really such good company. [_enter footman_.] take mrs. arbuthnot’s things. [_exit footman with wraps_.] hester. lady caroline, i had no idea it was your brother. i am sorry for the pain i must have caused you—i— lady caroline. my dear miss worsley, the only part of your little speech, if i may so term it, with which i thoroughly agreed, was the part about my brother. nothing that you could possibly say could be too bad for him. i regard henry as infamous, absolutely infamous. but i am bound to state, as you were remarking, jane, that he is excellent company, and he has one of the best cooks in london, and after a good dinner one can forgive anybody, even one’s own relations. lady hunstanton [_to_ miss worsley] now, do come, dear, and make friends with mrs. arbuthnot. she is one of the good, sweet, simple people you told us we never admitted into society. i am sorry to say mrs. arbuthnot comes very rarely to me. but that is not my fault. mrs. allonby. what a bore it is the men staying so long after dinner! i expect they are saying the most dreadful things about us. lady stutfield. do you really think so? mrs. allonby. i was sure of it. lady stutfield. how very, very horrid of them! shall we go onto the terrace? mrs. allonby. oh, anything to get away from the dowagers and the dowdies. [_rises and goes with_ lady stutfield _to door_ l.c.] we are only going to look at the stars, lady hunstanton. lady hunstanton. you will find a great many, dear, a great many. but don’t catch cold. [_to_ mrs. arbuthnot.] we shall all miss gerald so much, dear mrs. arbuthnot. mrs. arbuthnot. but has lord illingworth really offered to make gerald his secretary? lady hunstanton. oh, yes! he has been most charming about it. he has the highest possible opinion of your boy. you don’t know lord illingworth, i believe, dear. mrs. arbuthnot. i have never met him. lady hunstanton. you know him by name, no doubt? mrs. arbuthnot. i am afraid i don’t. i live so much out of the world, and see so few people. i remember hearing years ago of an old lord illingworth who lived in yorkshire, i think. lady hunstanton. ah, yes. that would be the last earl but one. he was a very curious man. he wanted to marry beneath him. or wouldn’t, i believe. there was some scandal about it. the present lord illingworth is quite different. he is very distinguished. he does—well, he does nothing, which i am afraid our pretty american visitor here thinks very wrong of anybody, and i don’t know that he cares much for the subjects in which you are so interested, dear mrs. arbuthnot. do you think, caroline, that lord illingworth is interested in the housing of the poor? lady caroline. i should fancy not at all, jane. lady hunstanton. we all have our different tastes, have we not? but lord illingworth has a very high position, and there is nothing he couldn’t get if he chose to ask for it. of course, he is comparatively a young man still, and he has only come to his title within—how long exactly is it, caroline, since lord illingworth succeeded? lady caroline. about four years, i think, jane. i know it was the same year in which my brother had his last exposure in the evening newspapers. lady hunstanton. ah, i remember. that would be about four years ago. of course, there were a great many people between the present lord illingworth and the title, mrs. arbuthnot. there was—who was there, caroline? lady caroline. there was poor margaret’s baby. you remember how anxious she was to have a boy, and it was a boy, but it died, and her husband died shortly afterwards, and she married almost immediately one of lord ascot’s sons, who, i am told, beats her. lady hunstanton. ah, that is in the family, dear, that is in the family. and there was also, i remember, a clergyman who wanted to be a lunatic, or a lunatic who wanted to be a clergyman, i forget which, but i know the court of chancery investigated the matter, and decided that he was quite sane. and i saw him afterwards at poor lord plumstead’s with straws in his hair, or something very odd about him. i can’t recall what. i often regret, lady caroline, that dear lady cecilia never lived to see her son get the title. mrs. arbuthnot. lady cecilia? lady hunstanton. lord illingworth’s mother, dear mrs. arbuthnot, was one of the duchess of jerningham’s pretty daughters, and she married sir thomas harford, who wasn’t considered a very good match for her at the time, though he was said to be the handsomest man in london. i knew them all quite intimately, and both the sons, arthur and george. mrs. arbuthnot. it was the eldest son who succeeded, of course, lady hunstanton? lady hunstanton. no, dear, he was killed in the hunting field. or was it fishing, caroline? i forget. but george came in for everything. i always tell him that no younger son has ever had such good luck as he has had. mrs. arbuthnot. lady hunstanton, i want to speak to gerald at once. might i see him? can he be sent for? lady hunstanton. certainly, dear. i will send one of the servants into the dining-room to fetch him. i don’t know what keeps the gentlemen so long. [_rings bell_.] when i knew lord illingworth first as plain george harford, he was simply a very brilliant young man about town, with not a penny of money except what poor dear lady cecilia gave him. she was quite devoted to him. chiefly, i fancy, because he was on bad terms with his father. oh, here is the dear archdeacon. [_to servant_.] it doesn’t matter. [_enter_ sir john _and_ doctor daubeny. sir john _goes over to_ lady stutfield, doctor daubeny _to_ lady hunstanton.] the archdeacon. lord illingworth has been most entertaining. i have never enjoyed myself more. [_sees_ mrs. arbuthnot.] ah, mrs. arbuthnot. lady hunstanton. [_to_ doctor baubeny.] you see i have got mrs. arbuthnot to come to me at last. the archdeacon. that is a great honour, lady hunstanton. mrs. daubeny will be quite jealous of you. lady hunstanton. ah, i am so sorry mrs. daubeny could not come with you to-night. headache as usual, i suppose. the archdeacon. yes, lady hunstanton; a perfect martyr. but she is happiest alone. she is happiest alone. lady caroline. [_to her husband_.] john! [sir john _goes over to his wife_. doctor baubeny _talks to_ lady hunstanton _and_ mrs. arbuthnot.] [mrs. arbuthnot watches lord illingworth the whole time. he has passed across the room without noticing her, and approaches mrs. allonby, who with lady stutfield is standing by the door looking on to the terrace.] lord illingworth. how is the most charming woman in the world? mrs. allonby. [taking lady stutfield by the hand.] we are both quite well, thank you, lord illingworth. but what a short time you have been in the dining-room! it seems as if we had only just left. lord illingworth. i was bored to death. never opened my lips the whole time. absolutely longing to come in to you. mrs. allonby. you should have. the american girl has been giving us a lecture. lord illingworth. really? all americans lecture, i believe. i suppose it is something in their climate. what did she lecture about? mrs. allonby. oh, puritanism, of course. lord illingworth. i am going to convert her, am i not? how long do you give me? mrs. allonby. a week. lord illingworth. a week is more than enough. [_enter_ gerald _and_ lord alfred.] gerald. [_going to_ mrs. arbuthnot.] dear mother! mrs. arbuthnot. gerald, i don’t feel at all well. see me home, gerald. i shouldn’t have come. gerald. i am so sorry, mother. certainly. but you must know lord illingworth first. [_goes across room_.] mrs. arbuthnot. not to-night, gerald. gerald. lord illingworth, i want you so much to know my mother. lord illingworth. with the greatest pleasure. [_to_ mrs. allonby.] i’ll be back in a moment. people’s mothers always bore me to death. all women become like their mothers. that is their tragedy. mrs. allonby. no man does. that is his. lord illingworth. what a delightful mood you are in to-night! [_turns round and goes across with_ gerald _to_ mrs. arbuthnot. _when he sees her_, _he starts back in wonder_. _then slowly his eyes turn towards_ gerald.] gerald. mother, this is lord illingworth, who has offered to take me as his private secretary. [mrs. arbuthnot _bows coldly_.] it is a wonderful opening for me, isn’t it? i hope he won’t be disappointed in me, that is all. you’ll thank lord illingworth, mother, won’t you? mrs. arbuthnot. lord illingworth in very good, i am sure, to interest himself in you for the moment. lord illingworth. [_putting his hand on_ gerald’s _shoulder_.] oh, gerald and i are great friends already, mrs . . . arbuthnot. mrs. arbuthnot. there can be nothing in common between you and my son, lord illingworth. gerald. dear mother, how can you say so? of course lord illingworth is awfully clever and that sort of thing. there is nothing lord illingworth doesn’t know. lord illingworth. my dear boy! gerald. he knows more about life than any one i have ever met. i feel an awful duffer when i am with you, lord illingworth. of course, i have had so few advantages. i have not been to eton or oxford like other chaps. but lord illingworth doesn’t seem to mind that. he has been awfully good to me, mother. mrs. arbuthnot. lord illingworth may change his mind. he may not really want you as his secretary. gerald. mother! mrs. arbuthnot. you must remember, as you said yourself, you have had so few advantages. mrs. allonby. lord illingworth, i want to speak to you for a moment. do come over. lord illingworth. will you excuse me, mrs. arbuthnot? now, don’t let your charming mother make any more difficulties, gerald. the thing is quite settled, isn’t it? gerald. i hope so. [lord illingworth _goes across to_ mrs. arbuthnot.] mrs. allonby. i thought you were never going to leave the lady in black velvet. lord illingworth. she is excessively handsome. [_looks at_ mrs. arbuthnot.] lady hunstanton. caroline, shall we all make a move to the music-room? miss worsley is going to play. you’ll come too, dear mrs. arbuthnot, won’t you? you don’t know what a treat is in store for you. [_to_ doctor baubeny.] i must really take miss worsley down some afternoon to the rectory. i should so much like dear mrs. daubeny to hear her on the violin. ah, i forgot. dear mrs. daubeny’s hearing is a little defective, is it not? the archdeacon. her deafness is a great privation to her. she can’t even hear my sermons now. she reads them at home. but she has many resources in herself, many resources. lady hunstanton. she reads a good deal, i suppose? the archdeacon. just the very largest print. the eyesight is rapidly going. but she’s never morbid, never morbid. gerald. [_to_ lord illingworth.] do speak to my mother, lord illingworth, before you go into the music-room. she seems to think, somehow, you don’t mean what you said to me. mrs. allonby. aren’t you coming? lord illingworth. in a few moments. lady hunstanton, if mrs. arbuthnot would allow me, i would like to say a few words to her, and we will join you later on. lady hunstanton. ah, of course. you will have a great deal to say to her, and she will have a great deal to thank you for. it is not every son who gets such an offer, mrs. arbuthnot. but i know you appreciate that, dear. lady caroline. john! lady hunstanton. now, don’t keep mrs. arbuthnot too long, lord illingworth. we can’t spare her. [_exit following the other guests_. _sound of violin heard from music-room_.] lord illingworth. so that is our son, rachel! well, i am very proud of him. he in a harford, every inch of him. by the way, why arbuthnot, rachel? mrs. arbuthnot. one name is as good as another, when one has no right to any name. lord illingworth. i suppose so—but why gerald? mrs. arbuthnot. after a man whose heart i broke—after my father. lord illingworth. well, rachel, what in over is over. all i have got to say now in that i am very, very much pleased with our boy. the world will know him merely as my private secretary, but to me he will be something very near, and very dear. it is a curious thing, rachel; my life seemed to be quite complete. it was not so. it lacked something, it lacked a son. i have found my son now, i am glad i have found him. mrs. arbuthnot. you have no right to claim him, or the smallest part of him. the boy is entirely mine, and shall remain mine. lord illingworth. my dear rachel, you have had him to yourself for over twenty years. why not let me have him for a little now? he is quite as much mine as yours. mrs. arbuthnot. are you talking of the child you abandoned? of the child who, as far as you are concerned, might have died of hunger and of want? lord illingworth. you forget, rachel, it was you who left me. it was not i who left you. mrs. arbuthnot. i left you because you refused to give the child a name. before my son was born, i implored you to marry me. lord illingworth. i had no expectations then. and besides, rachel, i wasn’t much older than you were. i was only twenty-two. i was twenty-one, i believe, when the whole thing began in your father’s garden. mrs. arbuthnot. when a man is old enough to do wrong he should be old enough to do right also. lord illingworth. my dear rachel, intellectual generalities are always interesting, but generalities in morals mean absolutely nothing. as for saying i left our child to starve, that, of course, is untrue and silly. my mother offered you six hundred a year. but you wouldn’t take anything. you simply disappeared, and carried the child away with you. mrs. arbuthnot. i wouldn’t have accepted a penny from her. your father was different. he told you, in my presence, when we were in paris, that it was your duty to marry me. lord illingworth. oh, duty is what one expects from others, it is not what one does oneself. of course, i was influenced by my mother. every man is when he is young. mrs. arbuthnot. i am glad to hear you say so. gerald shall certainly not go away with you. lord illingworth. what nonsense, rachel! mrs. arbuthnot. do you think i would allow my son— lord illingworth. _our_ son. mrs. arbuthnot. my son [lord illingworth _shrugs his shoulders_]—to go away with the man who spoiled my youth, who ruined my life, who has tainted every moment of my days? you don’t realise what my past has been in suffering and in shame. lord illingworth. my dear rachel, i must candidly say that i think gerald’s future considerably more important than your past. mrs. arbuthnot. gerald cannot separate his future from my past. lord illingworth. that is exactly what he should do. that is exactly what you should help him to do. what a typical woman you are! you talk sentimentally, and you are thoroughly selfish the whole time. but don’t let us have a scene. rachel, i want you to look at this matter from the common-sense point of view, from the point of view of what is best for our son, leaving you and me out of the question. what is our son at present? an underpaid clerk in a small provincial bank in a third-rate english town. if you imagine he is quite happy in such a position, you are mistaken. he is thoroughly discontented. mrs. arbuthnot. he was not discontented till he met you. you have made him so. lord illingworth. of course, i made him so. discontent is the first step in the progress of a man or a nation. but i did not leave him with a mere longing for things he could not get. no, i made him a charming offer. he jumped at it, i need hardly say. any young man would. and now, simply because it turns out that i am the boy’s own father and he my own son, you propose practically to ruin his career. that is to say, if i were a perfect stranger, you would allow gerald to go away with me, but as he is my own flesh and blood you won’t. how utterly illogical you are! mrs. arbuthnot. i will not allow him to go. lord illingworth. how can you prevent it? what excuse can you give to him for making him decline such an offer as mine? i won’t tell him in what relations i stand to him, i need hardly say. but you daren’t tell him. you know that. look how you have brought him up. mrs. arbuthnot. i have brought him up to be a good man. lord illingworth. quite so. and what is the result? you have educated him to be your judge if he ever finds you out. and a bitter, an unjust judge he will be to you. don’t be deceived, rachel. children begin by loving their parents. after a time they judge them. rarely, if ever, do they forgive them. mrs. arbuthnot. george, don’t take my son away from me. i have had twenty years of sorrow, and i have only had one thing to love me, only one thing to love. you have had a life of joy, and pleasure, and success. you have been quite happy, you have never thought of us. there was no reason, according to your views of life, why you should have remembered us at all. your meeting us was a mere accident, a horrible accident. forget it. don’t come now, and rob me of . . . of all i have in the whole world. you are so rich in other things. leave me the little vineyard of my life; leave me the walled-in garden and the well of water; the ewe-lamb god sent me, in pity or in wrath, oh! leave me that. george, don’t take gerald from me. lord illingworth. rachel, at the present moment you are not necessary to gerald’s career; i am. there is nothing more to be said on the subject. mrs. arbuthnot. i will not let him go. lord illingworth. here is gerald. he has a right to decide for himself. [_enter_ gerald.] gerald. well, dear mother, i hope you have settled it all with lord illingworth? mrs. arbuthnot. i have not, gerald. lord illingworth. your mother seems not to like your coming with me, for some reason. gerald. why, mother? mrs. arbuthnot. i thought you were quite happy here with me, gerald. i didn’t know you were so anxious to leave me. gerald. mother, how can you talk like that? of course i have been quite happy with you. but a man can’t stay always with his mother. no chap does. i want to make myself a position, to do something. i thought you would have been proud to see me lord illingworth’s secretary. mrs. arbuthnot. i do not think you would be suitable as a private secretary to lord illingworth. you have no qualifications. lord illingworth. i don’t wish to seem to interfere for a moment, mrs. arbuthnot, but as far as your last objection is concerned, i surely am the best judge. and i can only tell you that your son has all the qualifications i had hoped for. he has more, in fact, than i had even thought of. far more. [mrs. arbuthnot _remains silent_.] have you any other reason, mrs. arbuthnot, why you don’t wish your son to accept this post? gerald. have you, mother? do answer. lord illingworth. if you have, mrs. arbuthnot, pray, pray say it. we are quite by ourselves here. whatever it is, i need not say i will not repeat it. gerald. mother? lord illingworth. if you would like to be alone with your son, i will leave you. you may have some other reason you don’t wish me to hear. mrs. arbuthnot. i have no other reason. lord illingworth. then, my dear boy, we may look on the thing as settled. come, you and i will smoke a cigarette on the terrace together. and mrs. arbuthnot, pray let me tell you, that i think you have acted very, very wisely. [_exit with_ gerald. mrs. arbuthnot _is left alone_. _she stands immobile with a look of unutterable sorrow on her face_.] act drop third act scene _the picture gallery at hunstanton_. _door at back leading on to terrace_. [lord illingworth _and_ gerald, r.c. lord illingworth _lolling on a sofa_. gerald _in a chair_.] lord illingworth. thoroughly sensible woman, your mother, gerald. i knew she would come round in the end. gerald. my mother is awfully conscientious, lord illingworth, and i know she doesn’t think i am educated enough to be your secretary. she is perfectly right, too. i was fearfully idle when i was at school, and i couldn’t pass an examination now to save my life. lord illingworth. my dear gerald, examinations are of no value whatsoever. if a man is a gentleman, he knows quite enough, and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for him. gerald. but i am so ignorant of the world, lord illingworth. lord illingworth. don’t be afraid, gerald. remember that you’ve got on your side the most wonderful thing in the world—youth! there is nothing like youth. the middle-aged are mortgaged to life. the old are in life’s lumber-room. but youth is the lord of life. youth has a kingdom waiting for it. every one is born a king, and most people die in exile, like most kings. to win back my youth, gerald, there is nothing i wouldn’t do—except take exercise, get up early, or be a useful member of the community. gerald. but you don’t call yourself old, lord illingworth? lord illingworth. i am old enough to be your father, gerald. gerald. i don’t remember my father; he died years ago. lord illingworth. so lady hunstanton told me. gerald. it is very curious, my mother never talks to me about my father. i sometimes think she must have married beneath her. lord illingworth. [_winces slightly_.] really? [_goes over and puts his hand on_ gerald’s _shoulder_.] you have missed not having a father, i suppose, gerald? gerald. oh, no; my mother has been so good to me. no one ever had such a mother as i have had. lord illingworth. i am quite sure of that. still i should imagine that most mothers don’t quite understand their sons. don’t realise, i mean, that a son has ambitions, a desire to see life, to make himself a name. after all, gerald, you couldn’t be expected to pass all your life in such a hole as wrockley, could you? gerald. oh, no! it would be dreadful! lord illingworth. a mother’s love is very touching, of course, but it is often curiously selfish. i mean, there is a good deal of selfishness in it. gerald. [_slowly_.] i suppose there is. lord illingworth. your mother is a thoroughly good woman. but good women have such limited views of life, their horizon is so small, their interests are so petty, aren’t they? gerald. they are awfully interested, certainly, in things we don’t care much about. lord illingworth. i suppose your mother is very religious, and that sort of thing. gerald. oh, yes, she’s always going to church. lord illingworth. ah! she is not modern, and to be modern is the only thing worth being nowadays. you want to be modern, don’t you, gerald? you want to know life as it really is. not to be put of with any old-fashioned theories about life. well, what you have to do at present is simply to fit yourself for the best society. a man who can dominate a london dinner-table can dominate the world. the future belongs to the dandy. it is the exquisites who are going to rule. gerald. i should like to wear nice things awfully, but i have always been told that a man should not think too much about his clothes. lord illingworth. people nowadays are so absolutely superficial that they don’t understand the philosophy of the superficial. by the way, gerald, you should learn how to tie your tie better. sentiment is all very well for the button-hole. but the essential thing for a necktie is style. a well-tied tie is the first serious step in life. gerald. [_laughing_.] i might be able to learn how to tie a tie, lord illingworth, but i should never be able to talk as you do. i don’t know how to talk. lord illingworth. oh! talk to every woman as if you loved her, and to every man as if he bored you, and at the end of your first season you will have the reputation of possessing the most perfect social tact. gerald. but it is very difficult to get into society isn’t it? lord illingworth. to get into the best society, nowadays, one has either to feed people, amuse people, or shock people—that is all! gerald. i suppose society is wonderfully delightful! lord illingworth. to be in it is merely a bore. but to be out of it simply a tragedy. society is a necessary thing. no man has any real success in this world unless he has got women to back him, and women rule society. if you have not got women on your side you are quite over. you might just as well be a barrister, or a stockbroker, or a journalist at once. gerald. it is very difficult to understand women, is it not? lord illingworth. you should never try to understand them. women are pictures. men are problems. if you want to know what a woman really means—which, by the way, is always a dangerous thing to do—look at her, don’t listen to her. gerald. but women are awfully clever, aren’t they? lord illingworth. one should always tell them so. but, to the philosopher, my dear gerald, women represent the triumph of matter over mind—just as men represent the triumph of mind over morals. gerald. how then can women have so much power as you say they have? lord illingworth. the history of women is the history of the worst form of tyranny the world has ever known. the tyranny of the weak over the strong. it is the only tyranny that lasts. gerald. but haven’t women got a refining influence? lord illingworth. nothing refines but the intellect. gerald. still, there are many different kinds of women, aren’t there? lord illingworth. only two kinds in society: the plain and the coloured. gerald. but there are good women in society, aren’t there? lord illingworth. far too many. gerald. but do you think women shouldn’t be good? lord illingworth. one should never tell them so, they’d all become good at once. women are a fascinatingly wilful sex. every woman is a rebel, and usually in wild revolt against herself. gerald. you have never been married, lord illingworth, have you? lord illingworth. men marry because they are tired; women because they are curious. both are disappointed. gerald. but don’t you think one can be happy when one is married? lord illingworth. perfectly happy. but the happiness of a married man, my dear gerald, depends on the people he has not married. gerald. but if one is in love? lord illingworth. one should always be in love. that is the reason one should never marry. gerald. love is a very wonderful thing, isn’t it? lord illingworth. when one is in love one begins by deceiving oneself. and one ends by deceiving others. that is what the world calls a romance. but a really _grande passion_ is comparatively rare nowadays. it is the privilege of people who have nothing to do. that is the one use of the idle classes in a country, and the only possible explanation of us harfords. gerald. harfords, lord illingworth? lord illingworth. that is my family name. you should study the peerage, gerald. it is the one book a young man about town should know thoroughly, and it is the best thing in fiction the english have ever done. and now, gerald, you are going into a perfectly new life with me, and i want you to know how to live. [mrs. arbuthnot _appears on terrace behind_.] for the world has been made by fools that wise men should live in it! [_enter_ l.c. lady hunstanton _and_ dr. daubeny.] lady hunstanton. ah! here you are, dear lord illingworth. well, i suppose you have been telling our young friend, gerald, what his new duties are to be, and giving him a great deal of good advice over a pleasant cigarette. lord illingworth. i have been giving him the best of advice, lady hunstanton, and the best of cigarettes. lady hunstanton. i am so sorry i was not here to listen to you, but i suppose i am too old now to learn. except from you, dear archdeacon, when you are in your nice pulpit. but then i always know what you are going to say, so i don’t feel alarmed. [_sees_ mrs. arbuthnot.] ah! dear mrs. arbuthnot, do come and join us. come, dear. [_enter_ mrs. arbuthnot.] gerald has been having such a long talk with lord illingworth; i am sure you must feel very much flattered at the pleasant way in which everything has turned out for him. let us sit down. [_they sit down_.] and how is your beautiful embroidery going on? mrs. arbuthnot. i am always at work, lady hunstanton. lady hunstanton. mrs. daubeny embroiders a little, too, doesn’t she? the archdeacon. she was very deft with her needle once, quite a dorcas. but the gout has crippled her fingers a good deal. she has not touched the tambour frame for nine or ten years. but she has many other amusements. she is very much interested in her own health. lady hunstanton. ah! that is always a nice distraction, in it not? now, what are you talking about, lord illingworth? do tell us. lord illingworth. i was on the point of explaining to gerald that the world has always laughed at its own tragedies, that being the only way in which it has been able to bear them. and that, consequently, whatever the world has treated seriously belongs to the comedy side of things. lady hunstanton. now i am quite out of my depth. i usually am when lord illingworth says anything. and the humane society is most careless. they never rescue me. i am left to sink. i have a dim idea, dear lord illingworth, that you are always on the side of the sinners, and i know i always try to be on the side of the saints, but that is as far as i get. and after all, it may be merely the fancy of a drowning person. lord illingworth. the only difference between the saint and the sinner is that every saint has a past, and every sinner has a future. lady hunstanton. ah! that quite does for me. i haven’t a word to say. you and i, dear mrs. arbuthnot, are behind the age. we can’t follow lord illingworth. too much care was taken with our education, i am afraid. to have been well brought up is a great drawback nowadays. it shuts one out from so much. mrs. arbuthnot. i should be sorry to follow lord illingworth in any of his opinions. lady hunstanton. you are quite right, dear. [gerald _shrugs his shoulders and looks irritably over at his mother_. _enter_ lady caroline.] lady caroline. jane, have you seen john anywhere? lady hunstanton. you needn’t be anxious about him, dear. he is with lady stutfield; i saw them some time ago, in the yellow drawing-room. they seem quite happy together. you are not going, caroline? pray sit down. lady caroline. i think i had better look after john. [_exit_ lady caroline.] lady hunstanton. it doesn’t do to pay men so much attention. and caroline has really nothing to be anxious about. lady stutfield is very sympathetic. she is just as sympathetic about one thing as she is about another. a beautiful nature. [_enter_ sir john _and_ mrs. allonby.] ah! here is sir john! and with mrs. allonby too! i suppose it was mrs. allonby i saw him with. sir john, caroline has been looking everywhere for you. mrs. allonby. we have been waiting for her in the music-room, dear lady hunstanton. lady hunstanton. ah! the music-room, of course. i thought it was the yellow drawing-room, my memory is getting so defective. [_to the_ archdeacon.] mrs. daubeny has a wonderful memory, hasn’t she? the archdeacon. she used to be quite remarkable for her memory, but since her last attack she recalls chiefly the events of her early childhood. but she finds great pleasure in such retrospections, great pleasure. [_enter_ lady stutfield _and_ mr. kelvil.] lady hunstanton. ah! dear lady stutfield! and what has mr. kelvil been talking to you about? lady stutfield. about bimetallism, as well as i remember. lady hunstanton. bimetallism! is that quite a nice subject? however, i know people discuss everything very freely nowadays. what did sir john talk to you about, dear mrs. allonby? mrs. allonby. about patagonia. lady hunstanton. really? what a remote topic! but very improving, i have no doubt. mrs. allonby. he has been most interesting on the subject of patagonia. savages seem to have quite the same views as cultured people on almost all subjects. they are excessively advanced. lady hunstanton. what do they do? mrs. allonby. apparently everything. lady hunstanton. well, it is very gratifying, dear archdeacon, is it not, to find that human nature is permanently one.—on the whole, the world is the same world, is it not? lord illingworth. the world is simply divided into two classes—those who believe the incredible, like the public—and those who do the improbable— mrs. allonby. like yourself? lord illingworth. yes; i am always astonishing myself. it is the only thing that makes life worth living. lady stutfield. and what have you been doing lately that astonishes you? lord illingworth. i have been discovering all kinds of beautiful qualities in my own nature. mrs. allonby. ah! don’t become quite perfect all at once. do it gradually! lord illingworth. i don’t intend to grow perfect at all. at least, i hope i shan’t. it would be most inconvenient. women love us for our defects. if we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our gigantic intellects. mrs. allonby. it is premature to ask us to forgive analysis. we forgive adoration; that is quite as much as should be expected from us. [_enter_ lord alfred. _he joins_ lady stutfield.] lady hunstanton. ah! we women should forgive everything, shouldn’t we, dear mrs. arbuthnot? i am sure you agree with me in that. mrs. arbuthnot. i do not, lady hunstanton. i think there are many things women should never forgive. lady hunstanton. what sort of things? mrs. arbuthnot. the ruin of another woman’s life. [_moves slowly away to back of stage_.] lady hunstanton. ah! those things are very sad, no doubt, but i believe there are admirable homes where people of that kind are looked after and reformed, and i think on the whole that the secret of life is to take things very, very easily. mrs. allonby. the secret of life is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming. lady stutfield. the secret of life is to appreciate the pleasure of being terribly, terribly deceived. kelvil. the secret of life is to resist temptation, lady stutfield. lord illingworth. there is no secret of life. life’s aim, if it has one, is simply to be always looking for temptations. there are not nearly enough. i sometimes pass a whole day without coming across a single one. it is quite dreadful. it makes one so nervous about the future. lady hunstanton. [_shakes her fan at him_.] i don’t know how it is, dear lord illingworth, but everything you have said to-day seems to me excessively immoral. it has been most interesting, listening to you. lord illingworth. all thought is immoral. its very essence is destruction. if you think of anything, you kill it. nothing survives being thought of. lady hunstanton. i don’t understand a word, lord illingworth. but i have no doubt it is all quite true. personally, i have very little to reproach myself with, on the score of thinking. i don’t believe in women thinking too much. women should think in moderation, as they should do all things in moderation. lord illingworth. moderation is a fatal thing, lady hunstanton. nothing succeeds like excess. lady hunstanton. i hope i shall remember that. it sounds an admirable maxim. but i’m beginning to forget everything. it’s a great misfortune. lord illingworth. it is one of your most fascinating qualities, lady hunstanton. no woman should have a memory. memory in a woman is the beginning of dowdiness. one can always tell from a woman’s bonnet whether she has got a memory or not. lady hunstanton. how charming you are, dear lord illingworth. you always find out that one’s most glaring fault is one’s most important virtue. you have the most comforting views of life. [_enter_ farquhar.] farquhar. doctor daubeny’s carriage! lady hunstanton. my dear archdeacon! it is only half-past ten. the archdeacon. [_rising_.] i am afraid i must go, lady hunstanton. tuesday is always one of mrs. daubeny’s bad nights. lady hunstanton. [_rising_.] well, i won’t keep you from her. [_goes with him towards door_.] i have told farquhar to put a brace of partridge into the carriage. mrs. daubeny may fancy them. the archdeacon. it is very kind of you, but mrs. daubeny never touches solids now. lives entirely on jellies. but she is wonderfully cheerful, wonderfully cheerful. she has nothing to complain of. [_exit with_ lady hunstanton.] mrs. allonby. [_goes over to_ lord illingworth.] there is a beautiful moon to-night. lord illingworth. let us go and look at it. to look at anything that is inconstant is charming nowadays. mrs. allonby. you have your looking-glass. lord illingworth. it is unkind. it merely shows me my wrinkles. mrs. allonby. mine is better behaved. it never tells me the truth. lord illingworth. then it is in love with you. [_exeunt_ sir john, lady stutfield, mr. kelvil _and_ lord alfred.] gerald. [_to_ lord illingworth] may i come too? lord illingworth. do, my dear boy. [_moves towards with_ mrs. allonby _and_ gerald.] [lady caroline _enters_, _looks rapidly round and goes off in opposite direction to that taken by_ sir john _and_ lady stutfield.] mrs. arbuthnot. gerald! gerald. what, mother! [_exit_ lord illingworth _with_ mrs. allonby.] mrs. arbuthnot. it is getting late. let us go home. gerald. my dear mother. do let us wait a little longer. lord illingworth is so delightful, and, by the way, mother, i have a great surprise for you. we are starting for india at the end of this month. mrs. arbuthnot. let us go home. gerald. if you really want to, of course, mother, but i must bid good-bye to lord illingworth first. i’ll be back in five minutes. [_exit_.] mrs. arbuthnot. let him leave me if he chooses, but not with him—not with him! i couldn’t bear it. [_walks up and down_.] [_enter_ hester.] hester. what a lovely night it is, mrs. arbuthnot. mrs. arbuthnot. is it? hester. mrs. arbuthnot, i wish you would let us be friends. you are so different from the other women here. when you came into the drawing-room this evening, somehow you brought with you a sense of what is good and pure in life. i had been foolish. there are things that are right to say, but that may be said at the wrong time and to the wrong people. mrs. arbuthnot. i heard what you said. i agree with it, miss worsley. hester. i didn’t know you had heard it. but i knew you would agree with me. a woman who has sinned should be punished, shouldn’t she? mrs. arbuthnot. yes. hester. she shouldn’t be allowed to come into the society of good men and women? mrs. arbuthnot. she should not. hester. and the man should be punished in the same way? mrs. arbuthnot. in the same way. and the children, if there are children, in the same way also? hester. yes, it is right that the sins of the parents should be visited on the children. it is a just law. it is god’s law. mrs. arbuthnot. it is one of god’s terrible laws. [_moves away to fireplace_.] hester. you are distressed about your son leaving you, mrs. arbuthnot? mrs. arbuthnot. yes. hester. do you like him going away with lord illingworth? of course there is position, no doubt, and money, but position and money are not everything, are they? mrs. arbuthnot. they are nothing; they bring misery. hester. then why do you let your son go with him? mrs. arbuthnot. he wishes it himself. hester. but if you asked him he would stay, would he not? mrs. arbuthnot. he has set his heart on going. hester. he couldn’t refuse you anything. he loves you too much. ask him to stay. let me send him in to you. he is on the terrace at this moment with lord illingworth. i heard them laughing together as i passed through the music-room. mrs. arbuthnot. don’t trouble, miss worsley, i can wait. it is of no consequence. hester. no, i’ll tell him you want him. do—do ask him to stay. [_exit_ hester.] mrs. arbuthnot. he won’t come—i know he won’t come. [enter lady caroline. _she looks round anxiously_. _enter_ gerald.] lady caroline. mr. arbuthnot, may i ask you is sir john anywhere on the terrace? gerald. no, lady caroline, he is not on the terrace. lady caroline. it is very curious. it is time for him to retire. [_exit_ lady caroline.] gerald. dear mother, i am afraid i kept you waiting. i forgot all about it. i am so happy to-night, mother; i have never been so happy. mrs. arbuthnot. at the prospect of going away? gerald. don’t put it like that, mother. of course i am sorry to leave you. why, you are the best mother in the whole world. but after all, as lord illingworth says, it is impossible to live in such a place as wrockley. you don’t mind it. but i’m ambitions; i want something more than that. i want to have a career. i want to do something that will make you proud of me, and lord illingworth is going to help me. he is going to do everything for me. mrs. arbuthnot. gerald, don’t go away with lord illingworth. i implore you not to. gerald, i beg you! gerald. mother, how changeable you are! you don’t seem to know your own mind for a single moment. an hour and a half ago in the drawing-room you agreed to the whole thing; now you turn round and make objections, and try to force me to give up my one chance in life. yes, my one chance. you don’t suppose that men like lord illingworth are to be found every day, do you, mother? it is very strange that when i have had such a wonderful piece of good luck, the one person to put difficulties in my way should be my own mother. besides, you know, mother, i love hester worsley. who could help loving her? i love her more than i have ever told you, far more. and if i had a position, if i had prospects, i could—i could ask her to—don’t you understand now, mother, what it means to me to be lord illingworth’s secretary? to start like that is to find a career ready for one—before one—waiting for one. if i were lord illingworth’s secretary i could ask hester to be my wife. as a wretched bank clerk with a hundred a year it would be an impertinence. mrs. arbuthnot. i fear you need have no hopes of miss worsley. i know her views on life. she has just told them to me. [_a pause_.] gerald. then i have my ambition left, at any rate. that is something—i am glad i have that! you have always tried to crush my ambition, mother—haven’t you? you have told me that the world is a wicked place, that success is not worth having, that society is shallow, and all that sort of thing—well, i don’t believe it, mother. i think the world must be delightful. i think society must be exquisite. i think success is a thing worth having. you have been wrong in all that you taught me, mother, quite wrong. lord illingworth is a successful man. he is a fashionable man. he is a man who lives in the world and for it. well, i would give anything to be just like lord illingworth. mrs. arbuthnot. i would sooner see you dead. gerald. mother, what is your objection to lord illingworth? tell me—tell me right out. what is it? mrs. arbuthnot. he is a bad man. gerald. in what way bad? i don’t understand what you mean. mrs. arbuthnot. i will tell you. gerald. i suppose you think him bad, because he doesn’t believe the same things as you do. well, men are different from women, mother. it is natural that they should have different views. mrs. arbuthnot. it is not what lord illingworth believes, or what he does not believe, that makes him bad. it is what he is. gerald. mother, is it something you know of him? something you actually know? mrs. arbuthnot. it is something i know. gerald. something you are quite sure of? mrs. arbuthnot. quite sure of. gerald. how long have you known it? mrs. arbuthnot. for twenty years. gerald. is it fair to go back twenty years in any man’s career? and what have you or i to do with lord illingworth’s early life? what business is it of ours? mrs. arbuthnot. what this man has been, he is now, and will be always. gerald. mother, tell me what lord illingworth did? if he did anything shameful, i will not go away with him. surely you know me well enough for that? mrs. arbuthnot. gerald, come near to me. quite close to me, as you used to do when you were a little boy, when you were mother’s own boy. [gerald _sits down betide his mother_. _she runs her fingers through his hair_, _and strokes his hands_.] gerald, there was a girl once, she was very young, she was little over eighteen at the time. george harford—that was lord illingworth’s name then—george harford met her. she knew nothing about life. he—knew everything. he made this girl love him. he made her love him so much that she left her father’s house with him one morning. she loved him so much, and he had promised to marry her! he had solemnly promised to marry her, and she had believed him. she was very young, and—and ignorant of what life really is. but he put the marriage off from week to week, and month to month.—she trusted in him all the while. she loved him.—before her child was born—for she had a child—she implored him for the child’s sake to marry her, that the child might have a name, that her sin might not be visited on the child, who was innocent. he refused. after the child was born she left him, taking the child away, and her life was ruined, and her soul ruined, and all that was sweet, and good, and pure in her ruined also. she suffered terribly—she suffers now. she will always suffer. for her there is no joy, no peace, no atonement. she is a woman who drags a chain like a guilty thing. she is a woman who wears a mask, like a thing that is a leper. the fire cannot purify her. the waters cannot quench her anguish. nothing can heal her! no anodyne can give her sleep! no poppies forgetfulness! she is lost! she is a lost soul!—that is why i call lord illingworth a bad man. that is why i don’t want my boy to be with him. gerald. my dear mother, it all sounds very tragic, of course. but i dare say the girl was just as much to blame as lord illingworth was.—after all, would a really nice girl, a girl with any nice feelings at all, go away from her home with a man to whom she was not married, and live with him as his wife? no nice girl would. mrs. arbuthnot. [_after a pause_.] gerald, i withdraw all my objections. you are at liberty to go away with lord illingworth, when and where you choose. gerald. dear mother, i knew you wouldn’t stand in my way. you are the best woman god ever made. and, as for lord illingworth, i don’t believe he is capable of anything infamous or base. i can’t believe it of him—i can’t. hester. [_outside_.] let me go! let me go! [_enter_ hester _in terror_, _and rushes over to_ gerald _and flings herself in his arms_.] hester. oh! save me—save me from him! gerald. from whom? hester. he has insulted me! horribly insulted me! save me! gerald. who? who has dared—? [lord illingworth _enters at back of stage_. hester _breaks from_ gerald’s _arms and points to him_.] gerald [_he is quite beside himself with rage and indignation_.] lord illingworth, you have insulted the purest thing on god’s earth, a thing as pure as my own mother. you have insulted the woman i love most in the world with my own mother. as there is a god in heaven, i will kill you! mrs. arbuthnot. [_rushing across and catching hold of him_] no! no! gerald. [_thrusting her back_.] don’t hold me, mother. don’t hold me—i’ll kill him! mrs. arbuthnot. gerald! gerald. let me go, i say! mrs. arbuthnot. stop, gerald, stop! he is your own father! [gerald _clutches his mother’s hands and looks into her face_. _she sinks slowly on the ground in shame_. hester _steals towards the door_. lord illingworth _frowns and bites his lip_. _after a time_ gerald _raises his mother up_, _puts his am round her_, _and leads her from the room_.] act drop fourth act scene _sitting-room at mrs. arbuthnot’s_. _large open french window at back_, _looking on to garden_. _doors_ r.c. _and_ l.c. [gerald arbuthnot _writing at table_.] [_enter_ alice r.c. _followed by_ lady hunstanton _and_ mrs. allonby.] alice. lady hunstanton and mrs. allonby. [_exit_ l.c.] lady hunstanton. good morning, gerald. gerald. [_rising_.] good morning, lady hunstanton. good morning, mrs. allonby. lady hunstanton. [_sitting down_.] we came to inquire for your dear mother, gerald. i hope she is better? gerald. my mother has not come down yet, lady hunstanton. lady hunstanton. ah, i am afraid the heat was too much for her last night. i think there must have been thunder in the air. or perhaps it was the music. music makes one feel so romantic—at least it always gets on one’s nerves. mrs. allonby. it’s the same thing, nowadays. lady hunstanton. i am so glad i don’t know what you mean, dear. i am afraid you mean something wrong. ah, i see you’re examining mrs. arbuthnot’s pretty room. isn’t it nice and old-fashioned? mrs. allonby. [_surveying the room through her lorgnette_.] it looks quite the happy english home. lady hunstanton. that’s just the word, dear; that just describes it. one feels your mother’s good influence in everything she has about her, gerald. mrs. allonby. lord illingworth says that all influence is bad, but that a good influence is the worst in the world. lady hunstanton. when lord illingworth knows mrs. arbuthnot better he will change his mind. i must certainly bring him here. mrs. allonby. i should like to see lord illingworth in a happy english home. lady hunstanton. it would do him a great deal of good, dear. most women in london, nowadays, seem to furnish their rooms with nothing but orchids, foreigners, and french novels. but here we have the room of a sweet saint. fresh natural flowers, books that don’t shock one, pictures that one can look at without blushing. mrs. allonby. but i like blushing. lady hunstanton. well, there _is_ a good deal to be said for blushing, if one can do it at the proper moment. poor dear hunstanton used to tell me i didn’t blush nearly often enough. but then he was so very particular. he wouldn’t let me know any of his men friends, except those who were over seventy, like poor lord ashton: who afterwards, by the way, was brought into the divorce court. a most unfortunate case. mrs. allonby. i delight in men over seventy. they always offer one the devotion of a lifetime. i think seventy an ideal age for a man. lady hunstanton. she is quite incorrigible, gerald, isn’t she? by-the-by, gerald, i hope your dear mother will come and see me more often now. you and lord illingworth start almost immediately, don’t you? gerald. i have given up my intention of being lord illingworth’s secretary. lady hunstanton. surely not, gerald! it would be most unwise of you. what reason can you have? gerald. i don’t think i should be suitable for the post. mrs. allonby. i wish lord illingworth would ask me to be his secretary. but he says i am not serious enough. lady hunstanton. my dear, you really mustn’t talk like that in this house. mrs. arbuthnot doesn’t know anything about the wicked society in which we all live. she won’t go into it. she is far too good. i consider it was a great honour her coming to me last night. it gave quite an atmosphere of respectability to the party. mrs. allonby. ah, that must have been what you thought was thunder in the air. lady hunstanton. my dear, how can you say that? there is no resemblance between the two things at all. but really, gerald, what do you mean by not being suitable? gerald. lord illingworth’s views of life and mine are too different. lady hunstanton. but, my dear gerald, at your age you shouldn’t have any views of life. they are quite out of place. you must be guided by others in this matter. lord illingworth has made you the most flattering offer, and travelling with him you would see the world—as much of it, at least, as one should look at—under the best auspices possible, and stay with all the right people, which is so important at this solemn moment in your career. gerald. i don’t want to see the world: i’ve seen enough of it. mrs. allonby. i hope you don’t think you have exhausted life, mr. arbuthnot. when a man says that, one knows that life has exhausted him. gerald. i don’t wish to leave my mother. lady hunstanton. now, gerald, that is pure laziness on your part. not leave your mother! if i were your mother i would insist on your going. [_enter_ alice l.c.] alice. mrs. arbuthnot’s compliments, my lady, but she has a bad headache, and cannot see any one this morning. [_exit_ r.c.] lady hunstanton. [_rising_.] a bad headache! i am so sorry! perhaps you’ll bring her up to hunstanton this afternoon, if she is better, gerald. gerald. i am afraid not this afternoon, lady hunstanton. lady hunstanton. well, to-morrow, then. ah, if you had a father, gerald, he wouldn’t let you waste your life here. he would send you off with lord illingworth at once. but mothers are so weak. they give up to their sons in everything. we are all heart, all heart. come, dear, i must call at the rectory and inquire for mrs. daubeny, who, i am afraid, is far from well. it is wonderful how the archdeacon bears up, quite wonderful. he is the most sympathetic of husbands. quite a model. good-bye, gerald, give my fondest love to your mother. mrs. allonby. good-bye, mr. arbuthnot. gerald. good-bye. [_exit_ lady hunstanton _and_ mrs. allonby. gerald _sits down and reads over his letter_.] gerald. what name can i sign? i, who have no right to any name. [_signs name_, _puts letter into envelope_, _addresses it_, _and is about to seal it_, _when door_ l.c. _opens and_ mrs. arbuthnot _enters_. gerald _lays down sealing-wax_. _mother and son look at each other_.] lady hunstanton. [_through french window at the back_.] good-bye again, gerald. we are taking the short cut across your pretty garden. now, remember my advice to you—start at once with lord illingworth. mrs. allonby. _au revoir_, mr. arbuthnot. mind you bring me back something nice from your travels—not an indian shawl—on no account an indian shawl. [_exeunt_.] gerald. mother, i have just written to him. mrs. arbuthnot. to whom? gerald. to my father. i have written to tell him to come here at four o’clock this afternoon. mrs. arbuthnot. he shall not come here. he shall not cross the threshold of my house. gerald. he must come. mrs. arbuthnot. gerald, if you are going away with lord illingworth, go at once. go before it kills me: but don’t ask me to meet him. gerald. mother, you don’t understand. nothing in the world would induce me to go away with lord illingworth, or to leave you. surely you know me well enough for that. no: i have written to him to say— mrs. arbuthnot. what can you have to say to him? gerald. can’t you guess, mother, what i have written in this letter? mrs. arbuthnot. no. gerald. mother, surely you can. think, think what must be done, now, at once, within the next few days. mrs. arbuthnot. there is nothing to be done. gerald. i have written to lord illingworth to tell him that he must marry you. mrs. arbuthnot. marry me? gerald. mother, i will force him to do it. the wrong that has been done you must be repaired. atonement must be made. justice may be slow, mother, but it comes in the end. in a few days you shall be lord illingworth’s lawful wife. mrs. arbuthnot. but, gerald— gerald. i will insist upon his doing it. i will make him do it: he will not dare to refuse. mrs. arbuthnot. but, gerald, it is i who refuse. i will not marry lord illingworth. gerald. not marry him? mother! mrs. arbuthnot. i will not marry him. gerald. but you don’t understand: it is for your sake i am talking, not for mine. this marriage, this necessary marriage, this marriage which for obvious reasons must inevitably take place, will not help me, will not give me a name that will be really, rightly mine to bear. but surely it will be something for you, that you, my mother, should, however late, become the wife of the man who is my father. will not that be something? mrs. arbuthnot. i will not marry him. gerald. mother, you must. mrs. arbuthnot. i will not. you talk of atonement for a wrong done. what atonement can be made to me? there is no atonement possible. i am disgraced: he is not. that is all. it is the usual history of a man and a woman as it usually happens, as it always happens. and the ending is the ordinary ending. the woman suffers. the man goes free. gerald. i don’t know if that is the ordinary ending, mother: i hope it is not. but your life, at any rate, shall not end like that. the man shall make whatever reparation is possible. it is not enough. it does not wipe out the past, i know that. but at least it makes the future better, better for you, mother. mrs. arbuthnot. i refuse to marry lord illingworth. gerald. if he came to you himself and asked you to be his wife you would give him a different answer. remember, he is my father. mrs. arbuthnot. if he came himself, which he will not do, my answer would be the same. remember i am your mother. gerald. mother, you make it terribly difficult for me by talking like that; and i can’t understand why you won’t look at this matter from the right, from the only proper standpoint. it is to take away the bitterness out of your life, to take away the shadow that lies on your name, that this marriage must take place. there is no alternative: and after the marriage you and i can go away together. but the marriage must take place first. it is a duty that you owe, not merely to yourself, but to all other women—yes: to all the other women in the world, lest he betray more. mrs. arbuthnot. i owe nothing to other women. there is not one of them to help me. there is not one woman in the world to whom i could go for pity, if i would take it, or for sympathy, if i could win it. women are hard on each other. that girl, last night, good though she is, fled from the room as though i were a tainted thing. she was right. i am a tainted thing. but my wrongs are my own, and i will bear them alone. i must bear them alone. what have women who have not sinned to do with me, or i with them? we do not understand each other. [_enter_ hester _behind_.] gerald. i implore you to do what i ask you. mrs. arbuthnot. what son has ever asked of his mother to make so hideous a sacrifice? none. gerald. what mother has ever refused to marry the father of her own child? none. mrs. arbuthnot. let me be the first, then. i will not do it. gerald. mother, you believe in religion, and you brought me up to believe in it also. well, surely your religion, the religion that you taught me when i was a boy, mother, must tell you that i am right. you know it, you feel it. mrs. arbuthnot. i do not know it. i do not feel it, nor will i ever stand before god’s altar and ask god’s blessing on so hideous a mockery as a marriage between me and george harford. i will not say the words the church bids us to say. i will not say them. i dare not. how could i swear to love the man i loathe, to honour him who wrought you dishonour, to obey him who, in his mastery, made me to sin? no: marriage is a sacrament for those who love each other. it is not for such as him, or such as me. gerald, to save you from the world’s sneers and taunts i have lied to the world. for twenty years i have lied to the world. i could not tell the world the truth. who can, ever? but not for my own sake will i lie to god, and in god’s presence. no, gerald, no ceremony, church-hallowed or state-made, shall ever bind me to george harford. it may be that i am too bound to him already, who, robbing me, yet left me richer, so that in the mire of my life i found the pearl of price, or what i thought would be so. gerald. i don’t understand you now. mrs. arbuthnot. men don’t understand what mothers are. i am no different from other women except in the wrong done me and the wrong i did, and my very heavy punishments and great disgrace. and yet, to bear you i had to look on death. to nurture you i had to wrestle with it. death fought with me for you. all women have to fight with death to keep their children. death, being childless, wants our children from us. gerald, when you were naked i clothed you, when you were hungry i gave you food. night and day all that long winter i tended you. no office is too mean, no care too lowly for the thing we women love—and oh! how _i_ loved _you_. not hannah, samuel more. and you needed love, for you were weakly, and only love could have kept you alive. only love can keep any one alive. and boys are careless often and without thinking give pain, and we always fancy that when they come to man’s estate and know us better they will repay us. but it is not so. the world draws them from our side, and they make friends with whom they are happier than they are with us, and have amusements from which we are barred, and interests that are not ours: and they are unjust to us often, for when they find life bitter they blame us for it, and when they find it sweet we do not taste its sweetness with them . . . you made many friends and went into their houses and were glad with them, and i, knowing my secret, did not dare to follow, but stayed at home and closed the door, shut out the sun and sat in darkness. what should i have done in honest households? my past was ever with me. . . . and you thought i didn’t care for the pleasant things of life. i tell you i longed for them, but did not dare to touch them, feeling i had no right. you thought i was happier working amongst the poor. that was my mission, you imagined. it was not, but where else was i to go? the sick do not ask if the hand that smooths their pillow is pure, nor the dying care if the lips that touch their brow have known the kiss of sin. it was you i thought of all the time; i gave to them the love you did not need: lavished on them a love that was not theirs . . . and you thought i spent too much of my time in going to church, and in church duties. but where else could i turn? god’s house is the only house where sinners are made welcome, and you were always in my heart, gerald, too much in my heart. for, though day after day, at morn or evensong, i have knelt in god’s house, i have never repented of my sin. how could i repent of my sin when you, my love, were its fruit! even now that you are bitter to me i cannot repent. i do not. you are more to me than innocence. i would rather be your mother—oh! much rather!—than have been always pure . . . oh, don’t you see? don’t you understand? it is my dishonour that has made you so dear to me. it is my disgrace that has bound you so closely to me. it is the price i paid for you—the price of soul and body—that makes me love you as i do. oh, don’t ask me to do this horrible thing. child of my shame, be still the child of my shame! gerald. mother, i didn’t know you loved me so much as that. and i will be a better son to you than i have been. and you and i must never leave each other . . . but, mother . . . i can’t help it . . . you must become my father’s wife. you must marry him. it is your duty. hester. [_running forwards and embracing_ mrs. arbuthnot.] no, no; you shall not. that would be real dishonour, the first you have ever known. that would be real disgrace: the first to touch you. leave him and come with me. there are other countries than england . . . oh! other countries over sea, better, wiser, and less unjust lands. the world is very wide and very big. mrs. arbuthnot. no, not for me. for me the world is shrivelled to a palm’s breadth, and where i walk there are thorns. hester. it shall not be so. we shall somewhere find green valleys and fresh waters, and if we weep, well, we shall weep together. have we not both loved him? gerald. hester! hester. [_waving him back_.] don’t, don’t! you cannot love me at all, unless you love her also. you cannot honour me, unless she’s holier to you. in her all womanhood is martyred. not she alone, but all of us are stricken in her house. gerald. hester, hester, what shall i do? hester. do you respect the man who is your father? gerald. respect him? i despise him! he is infamous. hester. i thank you for saving me from him last night. gerald. ah, that is nothing. i would die to save you. but you don’t tell me what to do now! hester. have i not thanked you for saving _me_? gerald. but what should i do? hester. ask your own heart, not mine. i never had a mother to save, or shame. mrs. arbuthnot. he is hard—he is hard. let me go away. gerald. [_rushes over and kneels down bedside his mother_.] mother, forgive me: i have been to blame. mrs. arbuthnot. don’t kiss my hands: they are cold. my heart is cold: something has broken it. hester. ah, don’t say that. hearts live by being wounded. pleasure may turn a heart to stone, riches may make it callous, but sorrow—oh, sorrow cannot break it. besides, what sorrows have you now? why, at this moment you are more dear to him than ever, _dear_ though you have _been_, and oh! how dear you _have_ been always. ah! be kind to him. gerald. you are my mother and my father all in one. i need no second parent. it was for you i spoke, for you alone. oh, say something, mother. have i but found one love to lose another? don’t tell me that. o mother, you are cruel. [_gets up and flings himself sobbing on a sofa_.] mrs. arbuthnot. [_to_ hester.] but has he found indeed another love? hester. you know i have loved him always. mrs. arbuthnot. but we are very poor. hester. who, being loved, is poor? oh, no one. i hate my riches. they are a burden. let him share it with me. mrs. arbuthnot. but we are disgraced. we rank among the outcasts gerald is nameless. the sins of the parents should be visited on the children. it is god’s law. hester. i was wrong. god’s law is only love. mrs. arbuthnot. [_rises_, _and taking_ hester _by the hand_, _goes slowly over to where_ gerald _is lying on the sofa with his head buried in his hands_. _she touches him and he looks up_.] gerald, i cannot give you a father, but i have brought you a wife. gerald. mother, i am not worthy either of her or you. mrs. arbuthnot. so she comes first, you are worthy. and when you are away, gerald . . . with . . . her—oh, think of me sometimes. don’t forget me. and when you pray, pray for me. we should pray when we are happiest, and you will be happy, gerald. hester. oh, you don’t think of leaving us? gerald. mother, you won’t leave us? mrs. arbuthnot. i might bring shame upon you! gerald. mother! mrs. arbuthnot. for a little then: and if you let me, near you always. hester. [_to_ mrs. arbuthnot.] come out with us to the garden. mrs. arbuthnot. later on, later on. [_exeunt_ hester _and_ gerald. mrs. arbuthnot _goes towards door_ l.c. _stops at looking-glass over mantelpiece and looks into it_. _enter_ alice r.c.] alice. a gentleman to see you, ma’am. mrs. arbuthnot. say i am not at home. show me the card. [_takes card from salver and looks at it_.] say i will not see him. [lord illingworth _enters_. mrs. arbuthnot _sees him in the glass and starts_, _but does not turn round_. _exit_ alice.] what can you have to say to me to-day, george harford? you can have nothing to say to me. you must leave this house. lord illingworth. rachel, gerald knows everything about you and me now, so some arrangement must be come to that will suit us all three. i assure you, he will find in me the most charming and generous of fathers. mrs. arbuthnot. my son may come in at any moment. i saved you last night. i may not be able to save you again. my son feels my dishonour strongly, terribly strongly. i beg you to go. lord illingworth. [_sitting down_.] last night was excessively unfortunate. that silly puritan girl making a scene merely because i wanted to kiss her. what harm is there in a kiss? mrs. arbuthnot. [_turning round_.] a kiss may ruin a human life, george harford. _i_ know that. _i_ know that too well. lord illingworth. we won’t discuss that at present. what is of importance to-day, as yesterday, is still our son. i am extremely fond of him, as you know, and odd though it may seem to you, i admired his conduct last night immensely. he took up the cudgels for that pretty prude with wonderful promptitude. he is just what i should have liked a son of mine to be. except that no son of mine should ever take the side of the puritans: that is always an error. now, what i propose is this. mrs. arbuthnot. lord illingworth, no proposition of yours interests me. lord illingworth. according to our ridiculous english laws, i can’t legitimise gerald. but i can leave him my property. illingworth is entailed, of course, but it is a tedious barrack of a place. he can have ashby, which is much prettier, harborough, which has the best shooting in the north of england, and the house in st. james square. what more can a gentleman require in this world? mrs. arbuthnot. nothing more, i am quite sure. lord illingworth. as for a title, a title is really rather a nuisance in these democratic days. as george harford i had everything i wanted. now i have merely everything that other people want, which isn’t nearly so pleasant. well, my proposal is this. mrs. arbuthnot. i told you i was not interested, and i beg you to go. lord illingworth. the boy is to be with you for six months in the year, and with me for the other six. that is perfectly fair, is it not? you can have whatever allowance you like, and live where you choose. as for your past, no one knows anything about it except myself and gerald. there is the puritan, of course, the puritan in white muslin, but she doesn’t count. she couldn’t tell the story without explaining that she objected to being kissed, could she? and all the women would think her a fool and the men think her a bore. and you need not be afraid that gerald won’t be my heir. i needn’t tell you i have not the slightest intention of marrying. mrs. arbuthnot. you come too late. my son has no need of you. you are not necessary. lord illingworth. what do you mean, rachel? mrs. arbuthnot. that you are not necessary to gerald’s career. he does not require you. lord illingworth. i do not understand you. mrs. arbuthnot. look into the garden. [lord illingworth _rises and goes towards window_.] you had better not let them see you: you bring unpleasant memories. [lord illingworth _looks out and starts_.] she loves him. they love each other. we are safe from you, and we are going away. lord illingworth. where? mrs. arbuthnot. we will not tell you, and if you find us we will not know you. you seem surprised. what welcome would you get from the girl whose lips you tried to soil, from the boy whose life you have shamed, from the mother whose dishonour comes from you? lord illingworth. you have grown hard, rachel. mrs. arbuthnot. i was too weak once. it is well for me that i have changed. lord illingworth. i was very young at the time. we men know life too early. mrs. arbuthnot. and we women know life too late. that is the difference between men and women. [_a pause_.] lord illingworth. rachel, i want my son. my money may be of no use to him now. i may be of no use to him, but i want my son. bring us together, rachel. you can do it if you choose. [_sees letter on table_.] mrs. arbuthnot. there is no room in my boy’s life for you. he is not interested in _you_. lord illingworth. then why does he write to me? mrs. arbuthnot. what do you mean? lord illingworth. what letter is this? [_takes up letter_.] mrs. arbuthnot. that—is nothing. give it to me. lord illingworth. it is addressed to _me_. mrs. arbuthnot. you are not to open it. i forbid you to open it. lord illingworth. and in gerald’s handwriting. mrs. arbuthnot. it was not to have been sent. it is a letter he wrote to you this morning, before he saw me. but he is sorry now he wrote it, very sorry. you are not to open it. give it to me. lord illingworth. it belongs to me. [_opens it_, _sits down and reads it slowly_. mrs. arbuthnot _watches him all the time_.] you have read this letter, i suppose, rachel? mrs. arbuthnot. no. lord illingworth. you know what is in it? mrs. arbuthnot. yes! lord illingworth. i don’t admit for a moment that the boy is right in what he says. i don’t admit that it is any duty of mine to marry you. i deny it entirely. but to get my son back i am ready—yes, i am ready to marry you, rachel—and to treat you always with the deference and respect due to my wife. i will marry you as soon as you choose. i give you my word of honour. mrs. arbuthnot. you made that promise to me once before and broke it. lord illingworth. i will keep it now. and that will show you that i love my son, at least as much as you love him. for when i marry you, rachel, there are some ambitions i shall have to surrender. high ambitions, too, if any ambition is high. mrs. arbuthnot. i decline to marry you, lord illingworth. lord illingworth. are you serious? mrs. arbuthnot. yes. lord illingworth. do tell me your reasons. they would interest me enormously. mrs. arbuthnot. i have already explained them to my son. lord illingworth. i suppose they were intensely sentimental, weren’t they? you women live by your emotions and for them. you have no philosophy of life. mrs. arbuthnot. you are right. we women live by our emotions and for them. by our passions, and for them, if you will. i have two passions, lord illingworth: my love of him, my hate of you. you cannot kill those. they feed each other. lord illingworth. what sort of love is that which needs to have hate as its brother? mrs. arbuthnot. it is the sort of love i have for gerald. do you think that terrible? well it is terrible. all love is terrible. all love is a tragedy. i loved you once, lord illingworth. oh, what a tragedy for a woman to have loved you! lord illingworth. so you really refuse to marry me? mrs. arbuthnot. yes. lord illingworth. because you hate me? mrs. arbuthnot. yes. lord illingworth. and does my son hate me as you do? mrs. arbuthnot. no. lord illingworth. i am glad of that, rachel. mrs. arbuthnot. he merely despises you. lord illingworth. what a pity! what a pity for him, i mean. mrs. arbuthnot. don’t be deceived, george. children begin by loving their parents. after a time they judge them. rarely if ever do they forgive them. lord illingworth. [_reads letter over again_, _very slowly_.] may i ask by what arguments you made the boy who wrote this letter, this beautiful, passionate letter, believe that you should not marry his father, the father of your own child? mrs. arbuthnot. it was not i who made him see it. it was another. lord illingworth. what _fin-de-siècle_ person? mrs. arbuthnot. the puritan, lord illingworth. [_a pause_.] lord illingworth. [_winces_, _then rises slowly and goes over to table where his hat and gloves are_. mrs. arbuthnot _is standing close to the table_. _he picks up one of the gloves, and begins pulling it on_.] there is not much then for me to do here, rachel? mrs. arbuthnot. nothing. lord illingworth. it is good-bye, is it? mrs. arbuthnot. for ever, i hope, this time, lord illingworth. lord illingworth. how curious! at this moment you look exactly as you looked the night you left me twenty years ago. you have just the same expression in your mouth. upon my word, rachel, no woman ever loved me as you did. why, you gave yourself to me like a flower, to do anything i liked with. you were the prettiest of playthings, the most fascinating of small romances . . . [_pulls out watch_.] quarter to two! must be strolling back to hunstanton. don’t suppose i shall see you there again. i’m sorry, i am, really. it’s been an amusing experience to have met amongst people of one’s own rank, and treated quite seriously too, one’s mistress, and one’s— [mrs. arbuthnot _snatches up glove and strikes_ lord illingworth _across the face with it_. lord illingworth _starts_. _he is dazed by the insult of his punishment_. _then he controls himself_, _and goes to window and looks out at his son_. _sighs and leaves the room_.] mrs. arbuthnot. [_falls sobbing on the sofa_.] he would have said it. he would have said it. [_enter_ gerald _and_ hester _from the garden_.] gerald. well, dear mother. you never came out after all. so we have come in to fetch you. mother, you have not been crying? [_kneels down beside her_.] mrs. arbuthnot. my boy! my boy! my boy! [_running her fingers through his hair_.] hester. [_coming over_.] but you have two children now. you’ll let me be your daughter? mrs. arbuthnot. [_looking up_.] would you choose me for a mother? hester. you of all women i have ever known. [_they move towards the door leading into garden with their arms round each other’s waists_. gerald _goes to table_ l.c. _for his hat_. _on turning round he sees_ lord illingworth’s _glove lying on the floor_, _and picks it up_.] gerald. hallo, mother, whose glove is this? you have had a visitor. who was it? mrs. arbuthnot. [_turning round_.] oh! no one. no one in particular. a man of no importance.

<|EndOfText|>

first act scene _the octagon room at sir robert chiltern’s house in grosvenor square_. [_the room is brilliantly lighted and full of guests_. _at the top of the staircase stands_ lady chiltern, _a woman of grave greek beauty_, _about twenty-seven years of age_. _she receives the guests as they come up_. _over the well of the staircase hangs a great chandelier with wax lights_, _which illumine a large eighteenth-century french tapestry—representing the triumph of love_, _from a design by boucher—that is stretched on the staircase wall_. _on the right is the entrance to the music-room_. _the sound of a string quartette is faintly heard_. _the entrance on the left leads to other reception-rooms_. mrs. marchmont _and_ lady basildon, _two very pretty women_, _are seated together on a louis seize sofa_. _they are types of exquisite fragility_. _their affectation of manner has a delicate charm_. _watteau would have loved to paint them_.] mrs. marchmont. going on to the hartlocks’ to-night, margaret? lady basildon. i suppose so. are you? mrs. marchmont. yes. horribly tedious parties they give, don’t they? lady basildon. horribly tedious! never know why i go. never know why i go anywhere. mrs. marchmont. i come here to be educated. lady basildon. ah! i hate being educated! mrs. marchmont. so do i. it puts one almost on a level with the commercial classes, doesn’t it? but dear gertrude chiltern is always telling me that i should have some serious purpose in life. so i come here to try to find one. lady basildon. [_looking round through her lorgnette_.] i don’t see anybody here to-night whom one could possibly call a serious purpose. the man who took me in to dinner talked to me about his wife the whole time. mrs. marchmont. how very trivial of him! lady basildon. terribly trivial! what did your man talk about? mrs. marchmont. about myself. lady basildon. [_languidly_.] and were you interested? mrs. marchmont. [_shaking her head_.] not in the smallest degree. lady basildon. what martyrs we are, dear margaret! mrs. marchmont. [_rising_.] and how well it becomes us, olivia! [_they rise and go towards the music-room_. _the_ vicomte de nanjac, _a young attaché known for his neckties and his anglomania_, _approaches with a low bow_, _and enters into conversation_.] mason. [_announcing guests from the top of the staircase_.] mr. and lady jane barford. lord caversham. [_enter_ lord caversham, _an old gentleman of seventy_, _wearing the riband and star of the garter_. _a fine whig type_. _rather like a portrait by lawrence_.] lord caversham. good evening, lady chiltern! has my good-for-nothing young son been here? lady chiltern. [_smiling_.] i don’t think lord goring has arrived yet. mabel chiltern. [_coming up to_ lord caversham.] why do you call lord goring good-for-nothing? [mabel chiltern _is a perfect example of the english type of prettiness_, _the apple-blossom type_. _she has all the fragrance and freedom of a flower_. _there is ripple after ripple of sunlight in her hair_, _and the little mouth_, _with its parted lips_, _is expectant_, _like the mouth of a child_. _she has the fascinating tyranny of youth_, _and the astonishing courage of innocence_. _to sane people she is not reminiscent of any work of art_. _but she is really like a tanagra statuette_, _and would be rather annoyed if she were told so_.] lord caversham. because he leads such an idle life. mabel chiltern. how can you say such a thing? why, he rides in the row at ten o’clock in the morning, goes to the opera three times a week, changes his clothes at least five times a day, and dines out every night of the season. you don’t call that leading an idle life, do you? lord caversham. [_looking at her with a kindly twinkle in his eyes_.] you are a very charming young lady! mabel chiltern. how sweet of you to say that, lord caversham! do come to us more often. you know we are always at home on wednesdays, and you look so well with your star! lord caversham. never go anywhere now. sick of london society. shouldn’t mind being introduced to my own tailor; he always votes on the right side. but object strongly to being sent down to dinner with my wife’s milliner. never could stand lady caversham’s bonnets. mabel chiltern. oh, i love london society! i think it has immensely improved. it is entirely composed now of beautiful idiots and brilliant lunatics. just what society should be. lord caversham. hum! which is goring? beautiful idiot, or the other thing? mabel chiltern. [_gravely_.] i have been obliged for the present to put lord goring into a class quite by himself. but he is developing charmingly! lord caversham. into what? mabel chiltern. [_with a little curtsey_.] i hope to let you know very soon, lord caversham! mason. [_announcing guests_.] lady markby. mrs. cheveley. [_enter_ lady markby _and_ mrs. cheveley. lady markby _is a pleasant_, _kindly_, _popular woman_, _with gray hair à la marquise and good lace_. mrs. cheveley, _who accompanies her_, _is tall and rather slight_. _lips very thin and highly-coloured_, _a line of scarlet on a pallid face_. _venetian red hair_, _aquiline nose_, _and long throat_. _rouge accentuates the natural paleness of her complexion_. _gray-green eyes that move restlessly_. _she is in heliotrope_, _with diamonds_. _she looks rather like an orchid_, _and makes great demands on one’s curiosity_. _in all her movements she is extremely graceful_. _a work of art_, _on the whole_, _but showing the influence of too many schools_.] lady markby. good evening, dear gertrude! so kind of you to let me bring my friend, mrs. cheveley. two such charming women should know each other! lady chiltern. [_advances towards_ mrs. cheveley _with a sweet smile_. _then suddenly stops_, _and bows rather distantly_.] i think mrs. cheveley and i have met before. i did not know she had married a second time. lady markby. [_genially_.] ah, nowadays people marry as often as they can, don’t they? it is most fashionable. [_to_ duchess of maryborough.] dear duchess, and how is the duke? brain still weak, i suppose? well, that is only to be expected, is it not? his good father was just the same. there is nothing like race, is there? mrs. cheveley. [_playing with her fan_.] but have we really met before, lady chiltern? i can’t remember where. i have been out of england for so long. lady chiltern. we were at school together, mrs. cheveley. mrs. cheveley [_superciliously_.] indeed? i have forgotten all about my schooldays. i have a vague impression that they were detestable. lady chiltern. [_coldly_.] i am not surprised! mrs. cheveley. [_in her sweetest manner_.] do you know, i am quite looking forward to meeting your clever husband, lady chiltern. since he has been at the foreign office, he has been so much talked of in vienna. they actually succeed in spelling his name right in the newspapers. that in itself is fame, on the continent. lady chiltern. i hardly think there will be much in common between you and my husband, mrs. cheveley! [_moves away_.] vicomte de nanjac. ah! chère madame, queue surprise! i have not seen you since berlin! mrs. cheveley. not since berlin, vicomte. five years ago! vicomte de nanjac. and you are younger and more beautiful than ever. how do you manage it? mrs. cheveley. by making it a rule only to talk to perfectly charming people like yourself. vicomte de nanjac. ah! you flatter me. you butter me, as they say here. mrs. cheveley. do they say that here? how dreadful of them! vicomte de nanjac. yes, they have a wonderful language. it should be more widely known. [sir robert chiltern _enters_. _a man of forty_, _but looking somewhat younger_. _clean-shaven_, _with finely-cut features_, _dark-haired and dark-eyed_. _a personality of mark_. _not popular—few personalities are_. _but intensely admired by the few_, _and deeply respected by the many_. _the note of his manner is that of perfect distinction_, _with a slight touch of pride_. _one feels that he is conscious of the success he has made in life_. _a nervous temperament_, _with a tired look_. _the firmly-chiselled mouth and chin contrast strikingly with the romantic expression in the deep-set eyes_. _the variance is suggestive of an almost complete separation of passion and intellect_, _as though thought and emotion were each isolated in its own sphere through some violence of will-power_. _there is nervousness in the nostrils_, _and in the pale_, _thin_, _pointed hands_. _it would be inaccurate to call him picturesque_. _picturesqueness cannot survive the house of commons_. _but vandyck would have liked to have painted his head_.] sir robert chiltern. good evening, lady markby! i hope you have brought sir john with you? lady markby. oh! i have brought a much more charming person than sir john. sir john’s temper since he has taken seriously to politics has become quite unbearable. really, now that the house of commons is trying to become useful, it does a great deal of harm. sir robert chiltern. i hope not, lady markby. at any rate we do our best to waste the public time, don’t we? but who is this charming person you have been kind enough to bring to us? lady markby. her name is mrs. cheveley! one of the dorsetshire cheveleys, i suppose. but i really don’t know. families are so mixed nowadays. indeed, as a rule, everybody turns out to be somebody else. sir robert chiltern. mrs. cheveley? i seem to know the name. lady markby. she has just arrived from vienna. sir robert chiltern. ah! yes. i think i know whom you mean. lady markby. oh! she goes everywhere there, and has such pleasant scandals about all her friends. i really must go to vienna next winter. i hope there is a good chef at the embassy. sir robert chiltern. if there is not, the ambassador will certainly have to be recalled. pray point out mrs. cheveley to me. i should like to see her. lady markby. let me introduce you. [_to_ mrs. cheveley.] my dear, sir robert chiltern is dying to know you! sir robert chiltern. [_bowing_.] every one is dying to know the brilliant mrs. cheveley. our attachés at vienna write to us about nothing else. mrs. cheveley. thank you, sir robert. an acquaintance that begins with a compliment is sure to develop into a real friendship. it starts in the right manner. and i find that i know lady chiltern already. sir robert chiltern. really? mrs. cheveley. yes. she has just reminded me that we were at school together. i remember it perfectly now. she always got the good conduct prize. i have a distinct recollection of lady chiltern always getting the good conduct prize! sir robert chiltern. [_smiling_.] and what prizes did you get, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. my prizes came a little later on in life. i don’t think any of them were for good conduct. i forget! sir robert chiltern. i am sure they were for something charming! mrs. cheveley. i don’t know that women are always rewarded for being charming. i think they are usually punished for it! certainly, more women grow old nowadays through the faithfulness of their admirers than through anything else! at least that is the only way i can account for the terribly haggard look of most of your pretty women in london! sir robert chiltern. what an appalling philosophy that sounds! to attempt to classify you, mrs. cheveley, would be an impertinence. but may i ask, at heart, are you an optimist or a pessimist? those seem to be the only two fashionable religions left to us nowadays. mrs. cheveley. oh, i’m neither. optimism begins in a broad grin, and pessimism ends with blue spectacles. besides, they are both of them merely poses. sir robert chiltern. you prefer to be natural? mrs. cheveley. sometimes. but it is such a very difficult pose to keep up. sir robert chiltern. what would those modern psychological novelists, of whom we hear so much, say to such a theory as that? mrs. cheveley. ah! the strength of women comes from the fact that psychology cannot explain us. men can be analysed, women . . . merely adored. sir robert chiltern. you think science cannot grapple with the problem of women? mrs. cheveley. science can never grapple with the irrational. that is why it has no future before it, in this world. sir robert chiltern. and women represent the irrational. mrs. cheveley. well-dressed women do. sir robert chiltern. [_with a polite bow_.] i fear i could hardly agree with you there. but do sit down. and now tell me, what makes you leave your brilliant vienna for our gloomy london—or perhaps the question is indiscreet? mrs. cheveley. questions are never indiscreet. answers sometimes are. sir robert chiltern. well, at any rate, may i know if it is politics or pleasure? mrs. cheveley. politics are my only pleasure. you see nowadays it is not fashionable to flirt till one is forty, or to be romantic till one is forty-five, so we poor women who are under thirty, or say we are, have nothing open to us but politics or philanthropy. and philanthropy seems to me to have become simply the refuge of people who wish to annoy their fellow-creatures. i prefer politics. i think they are more . . . becoming! sir robert chiltern. a political life is a noble career! mrs. cheveley. sometimes. and sometimes it is a clever game, sir robert. and sometimes it is a great nuisance. sir robert chiltern. which do you find it? mrs. cheveley. i? a combination of all three. [_drops her fan_.] sir robert chiltern. [_picks up fan_.] allow me! mrs. cheveley. thanks. sir robert chiltern. but you have not told me yet what makes you honour london so suddenly. our season is almost over. mrs. cheveley. oh! i don’t care about the london season! it is too matrimonial. people are either hunting for husbands, or hiding from them. i wanted to meet you. it is quite true. you know what a woman’s curiosity is. almost as great as a man’s! i wanted immensely to meet you, and . . . to ask you to do something for me. sir robert chiltern. i hope it is not a little thing, mrs. cheveley. i find that little things are so very difficult to do. mrs. cheveley. [_after a moment’s reflection_.] no, i don’t think it is quite a little thing. sir robert chiltern. i am so glad. do tell me what it is. mrs. cheveley. later on. [_rises_.] and now may i walk through your beautiful house? i hear your pictures are charming. poor baron arnheim—you remember the baron?—used to tell me you had some wonderful corots. sir robert chiltern. [_with an almost imperceptible start_.] did you know baron arnheim well? mrs. cheveley. [_smiling_.] intimately. did you? sir robert chiltern. at one time. mrs. cheveley. wonderful man, wasn’t he? sir robert chiltern. [_after a pause_.] he was very remarkable, in many ways. mrs. cheveley. i often think it such a pity he never wrote his memoirs. they would have been most interesting. sir robert chiltern. yes: he knew men and cities well, like the old greek. mrs. cheveley. without the dreadful disadvantage of having a penelope waiting at home for him. mason. lord goring. [_enter_ lord goring. _thirty-four_, _but always says he is younger_. _a well-bred_, _expressionless face_. _he is clever_, _but would not like to be thought so_. _a flawless dandy_, _he would be annoyed if he were considered romantic_. _he plays with life_, _and is on perfectly good terms with the world_. _he is fond of being misunderstood_. _it gives him a post of vantage_.] sir robert chiltern. good evening, my dear arthur! mrs. cheveley, allow me to introduce to you lord goring, the idlest man in london. mrs. cheveley. i have met lord goring before. lord goring. [_bowing_.] i did not think you would remember me, mrs. cheveley. mrs. cheveley. my memory is under admirable control. and are you still a bachelor? lord goring. i . . . believe so. mrs. cheveley. how very romantic! lord goring. oh! i am not at all romantic. i am not old enough. i leave romance to my seniors. sir robert chiltern. lord goring is the result of boodle’s club, mrs. cheveley. mrs. cheveley. he reflects every credit on the institution. lord goring. may i ask are you staying in london long? mrs. cheveley. that depends partly on the weather, partly on the cooking, and partly on sir robert. sir robert chiltern. you are not going to plunge us into a european war, i hope? mrs. cheveley. there is no danger, at present! [_she nods to_ lord goring, _with a look of amusement in her eyes_, _and goes out with_ sir robert chiltern. lord goring _saunters over to_ mabel chiltern.] mabel chiltern. you are very late! lord goring. have you missed me? mabel chiltern. awfully! lord goring. then i am sorry i did not stay away longer. i like being missed. mabel chiltern. how very selfish of you! lord goring. i am very selfish. mabel chiltern. you are always telling me of your bad qualities, lord goring. lord goring. i have only told you half of them as yet, miss mabel! mabel chiltern. are the others very bad? lord goring. quite dreadful! when i think of them at night i go to sleep at once. mabel chiltern. well, i delight in your bad qualities. i wouldn’t have you part with one of them. lord goring. how very nice of you! but then you are always nice. by the way, i want to ask you a question, miss mabel. who brought mrs. cheveley here? that woman in heliotrope, who has just gone out of the room with your brother? mabel chiltern. oh, i think lady markby brought her. why do you ask? lord goring. i haven’t seen her for years, that is all. mabel chiltern. what an absurd reason! lord goring. all reasons are absurd. mabel chiltern. what sort of a woman is she? lord goring. oh! a genius in the daytime and a beauty at night! mabel chiltern. i dislike her already. lord goring. that shows your admirable good taste. vicomte de nanjac. [_approaching_.] ah, the english young lady is the dragon of good taste, is she not? quite the dragon of good taste. lord goring. so the newspapers are always telling us. vicomte de nanjac. i read all your english newspapers. i find them so amusing. lord goring. then, my dear nanjac, you must certainly read between the lines. vicomte de nanjac. i should like to, but my professor objects. [_to_ mabel chiltern.] may i have the pleasure of escorting you to the music-room, mademoiselle? mabel chiltern. [_looking very disappointed_.] delighted, vicomte, quite delighted! [_turning to_ lord goring.] aren’t you coming to the music-room? lord goring. not if there is any music going on, miss mabel. mabel chiltern. [_severely_.] the music is in german. you would not understand it. [_goes out with the_ vicomte de nanjac. lord caversham _comes up to his son_.] lord caversham. well, sir! what are you doing here? wasting your life as usual! you should be in bed, sir. you keep too late hours! i heard of you the other night at lady rufford’s dancing till four o’clock in the morning! lord goring. only a quarter to four, father. lord caversham. can’t make out how you stand london society. the thing has gone to the dogs, a lot of damned nobodies talking about nothing. lord goring. i love talking about nothing, father. it is the only thing i know anything about. lord caversham. you seem to me to be living entirely for pleasure. lord goring. what else is there to live for, father? nothing ages like happiness. lord caversham. you are heartless, sir, very heartless! lord goring. i hope not, father. good evening, lady basildon! lady basildon. [_arching two pretty eyebrows_.] are you here? i had no idea you ever came to political parties! lord goring. i adore political parties. they are the only place left to us where people don’t talk politics. lady basildon. i delight in talking politics. i talk them all day long. but i can’t bear listening to them. i don’t know how the unfortunate men in the house stand these long debates. lord goring. by never listening. lady basildon. really? lord goring. [_in his most serious manner_.] of course. you see, it is a very dangerous thing to listen. if one listens one may be convinced; and a man who allows himself to be convinced by an argument is a thoroughly unreasonable person. lady basildon. ah! that accounts for so much in men that i have never understood, and so much in women that their husbands never appreciate in them! mrs. marchmont. [_with a sigh_.] our husbands never appreciate anything in us. we have to go to others for that! lady basildon. [_emphatically_.] yes, always to others, have we not? lord goring. [_smiling_.] and those are the views of the two ladies who are known to have the most admirable husbands in london. mrs. marchmont. that is exactly what we can’t stand. my reginald is quite hopelessly faultless. he is really unendurably so, at times! there is not the smallest element of excitement in knowing him. lord goring. how terrible! really, the thing should be more widely known! lady basildon. basildon is quite as bad; he is as domestic as if he was a bachelor. mrs. marchmont. [_pressing_ lady basildon’s _hand_.] my poor olivia! we have married perfect husbands, and we are well punished for it. lord goring. i should have thought it was the husbands who were punished. mrs. marchmont. [_drawing herself up_.] oh, dear no! they are as happy as possible! and as for trusting us, it is tragic how much they trust us. lady basildon. perfectly tragic! lord goring. or comic, lady basildon? lady basildon. certainly not comic, lord goring. how unkind of you to suggest such a thing! mrs. marchmont. i am afraid lord goring is in the camp of the enemy, as usual. i saw him talking to that mrs. cheveley when he came in. lord goring. handsome woman, mrs. cheveley! lady basildon. [_stiffly_.] please don’t praise other women in our presence. you might wait for us to do that! lord goring. i did wait. mrs. marchmont. well, we are not going to praise her. i hear she went to the opera on monday night, and told tommy rufford at supper that, as far as she could see, london society was entirely made up of dowdies and dandies. lord goring. she is quite right, too. the men are all dowdies and the women are all dandies, aren’t they? mrs. marchmont. [_after a pause_.] oh! do you really think that is what mrs. cheveley meant? lord goring. of course. and a very sensible remark for mrs. cheveley to make, too. [_enter_ mabel chiltern. _she joins the group_.] mabel chiltern. why are you talking about mrs. cheveley? everybody is talking about mrs. cheveley! lord goring says—what did you say, lord goring, about mrs. cheveley? oh! i remember, that she was a genius in the daytime and a beauty at night. lady basildon. what a horrid combination! so very unnatural! mrs. marchmont. [_in her most dreamy manner_.] i like looking at geniuses, and listening to beautiful people. lord goring. ah! that is morbid of you, mrs. marchmont! mrs. marchmont. [_brightening to a look of real pleasure_.] i am so glad to hear you say that. marchmont and i have been married for seven years, and he has never once told me that i was morbid. men are so painfully unobservant! lady basildon. [_turning to her_.] i have always said, dear margaret, that you were the most morbid person in london. mrs. marchmont. ah! but you are always sympathetic, olivia! mabel chiltern. is it morbid to have a desire for food? i have a great desire for food. lord goring, will you give me some supper? lord goring. with pleasure, miss mabel. [_moves away with her_.] mabel chiltern. how horrid you have been! you have never talked to me the whole evening! lord goring. how could i? you went away with the child-diplomatist. mabel chiltern. you might have followed us. pursuit would have been only polite. i don’t think i like you at all this evening! lord goring. i like you immensely. mabel chiltern. well, i wish you’d show it in a more marked way! [_they go downstairs_.] mrs. marchmont. olivia, i have a curious feeling of absolute faintness. i think i should like some supper very much. i know i should like some supper. lady basildon. i am positively dying for supper, margaret! mrs. marchmont. men are so horribly selfish, they never think of these things. lady basildon. men are grossly material, grossly material! [_the_ vicomte de nanjac _enters from the music-room with some other guests_. _after having carefully examined all the people present_, _he approaches_ lady basildon.] vicomte de nanjac. may i have the honour of taking you down to supper, comtesse? lady basildon. [_coldly_.] i never take supper, thank you, vicomte. [_the_ vicomte _is about to retire_. lady basildon, _seeing this_, _rises at once and takes his arm_.] but i will come down with you with pleasure. vicomte de nanjac. i am so fond of eating! i am very english in all my tastes. lady basildon. you look quite english, vicomte, quite english. [_they pass out_. mr. montford, _a perfectly groomed young dandy_, _approaches_ mrs. marchmont.] mr. montford. like some supper, mrs. marchmont? mrs. marchmont. [_languidly_.] thank you, mr. montford, i never touch supper. [_rises hastily and takes his arm_.] but i will sit beside you, and watch you. mr. montford. i don’t know that i like being watched when i am eating! mrs. marchmont. then i will watch some one else. mr. montford. i don’t know that i should like that either. mrs. marchmont. [_severely_.] pray, mr. montford, do not make these painful scenes of jealousy in public! [_they go downstairs with the other guests_, _passing_ sir robert chiltern _and_ mrs. cheveley, _who now enter_.] sir robert chiltern. and are you going to any of our country houses before you leave england, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. oh, no! i can’t stand your english house-parties. in england people actually try to be brilliant at breakfast. that is so dreadful of them! only dull people are brilliant at breakfast. and then the family skeleton is always reading family prayers. my stay in england really depends on you, sir robert. [_sits down on the sofa_.] sir robert chiltern. [_taking a seat beside her_.] seriously? mrs. cheveley. quite seriously. i want to talk to you about a great political and financial scheme, about this argentine canal company, in fact. sir robert chiltern. what a tedious, practical subject for you to talk about, mrs. cheveley! mrs. cheveley. oh, i like tedious, practical subjects. what i don’t like are tedious, practical people. there is a wide difference. besides, you are interested, i know, in international canal schemes. you were lord radley’s secretary, weren’t you, when the government bought the suez canal shares? sir robert chiltern. yes. but the suez canal was a very great and splendid undertaking. it gave us our direct route to india. it had imperial value. it was necessary that we should have control. this argentine scheme is a commonplace stock exchange swindle. mrs. cheveley. a speculation, sir robert! a brilliant, daring speculation. sir robert chiltern. believe me, mrs. cheveley, it is a swindle. let us call things by their proper names. it makes matters simpler. we have all the information about it at the foreign office. in fact, i sent out a special commission to inquire into the matter privately, and they report that the works are hardly begun, and as for the money already subscribed, no one seems to know what has become of it. the whole thing is a second panama, and with not a quarter of the chance of success that miserable affair ever had. i hope you have not invested in it. i am sure you are far too clever to have done that. mrs. cheveley. i have invested very largely in it. sir robert chiltern. who could have advised you to do such a foolish thing? mrs. cheveley. your old friend—and mine. sir robert chiltern. who? mrs. cheveley. baron arnheim. sir robert chiltern. [_frowning_.] ah! yes. i remember hearing, at the time of his death, that he had been mixed up in the whole affair. mrs. cheveley. it was his last romance. his last but one, to do him justice. sir robert chiltern. [_rising_.] but you have not seen my corots yet. they are in the music-room. corots seem to go with music, don’t they? may i show them to you? mrs. cheveley. [_shaking her head_.] i am not in a mood to-night for silver twilights, or rose-pink dawns. i want to talk business. [_motions to him with her fan to sit down again beside her_.] sir robert chiltern. i fear i have no advice to give you, mrs. cheveley, except to interest yourself in something less dangerous. the success of the canal depends, of course, on the attitude of england, and i am going to lay the report of the commissioners before the house to-morrow night. mrs. cheveley. that you must not do. in your own interests, sir robert, to say nothing of mine, you must not do that. sir robert chiltern. [_looking at her in wonder_.] in my own interests? my dear mrs. cheveley, what do you mean? [_sits down beside her_.] mrs. cheveley. sir robert, i will be quite frank with you. i want you to withdraw the report that you had intended to lay before the house, on the ground that you have reasons to believe that the commissioners have been prejudiced or misinformed, or something. then i want you to say a few words to the effect that the government is going to reconsider the question, and that you have reason to believe that the canal, if completed, will be of great international value. you know the sort of things ministers say in cases of this kind. a few ordinary platitudes will do. in modern life nothing produces such an effect as a good platitude. it makes the whole world kin. will you do that for me? sir robert chiltern. mrs. cheveley, you cannot be serious in making me such a proposition! mrs. cheveley. i am quite serious. sir robert chiltern. [_coldly_.] pray allow me to believe that you are not. mrs. cheveley. [_speaking with great deliberation and emphasis_.] ah! but i am. and if you do what i ask you, i . . . will pay you very handsomely! sir robert chiltern. pay me! mrs. cheveley. yes. sir robert chiltern. i am afraid i don’t quite understand what you mean. mrs. cheveley. [_leaning back on the sofa and looking at him_.] how very disappointing! and i have come all the way from vienna in order that you should thoroughly understand me. sir robert chiltern. i fear i don’t. mrs. cheveley. [_in her most nonchalant manner_.] my dear sir robert, you are a man of the world, and you have your price, i suppose. everybody has nowadays. the drawback is that most people are so dreadfully expensive. i know i am. i hope you will be more reasonable in your terms. sir robert chiltern. [_rises indignantly_.] if you will allow me, i will call your carriage for you. you have lived so long abroad, mrs. cheveley, that you seem to be unable to realise that you are talking to an english gentleman. mrs. cheveley. [_detains him by touching his arm with her fan_, _and keeping it there while she is talking_.] i realise that i am talking to a man who laid the foundation of his fortune by selling to a stock exchange speculator a cabinet secret. sir robert chiltern. [_biting his lip_.] what do you mean? mrs. cheveley. [_rising and facing him_.] i mean that i know the real origin of your wealth and your career, and i have got your letter, too. sir robert chiltern. what letter? mrs. cheveley. [_contemptuously_.] the letter you wrote to baron arnheim, when you were lord radley’s secretary, telling the baron to buy suez canal shares—a letter written three days before the government announced its own purchase. sir robert chiltern. [_hoarsely_.] it is not true. mrs. cheveley. you thought that letter had been destroyed. how foolish of you! it is in my possession. sir robert chiltern. the affair to which you allude was no more than a speculation. the house of commons had not yet passed the bill; it might have been rejected. mrs. cheveley. it was a swindle, sir robert. let us call things by their proper names. it makes everything simpler. and now i am going to sell you that letter, and the price i ask for it is your public support of the argentine scheme. you made your own fortune out of one canal. you must help me and my friends to make our fortunes out of another! sir robert chiltern. it is infamous, what you propose—infamous! mrs. cheveley. oh, no! this is the game of life as we all have to play it, sir robert, sooner or later! sir robert chiltern. i cannot do what you ask me. mrs. cheveley. you mean you cannot help doing it. you know you are standing on the edge of a precipice. and it is not for you to make terms. it is for you to accept them. supposing you refuse— sir robert chiltern. what then? mrs. cheveley. my dear sir robert, what then? you are ruined, that is all! remember to what a point your puritanism in england has brought you. in old days nobody pretended to be a bit better than his neighbours. in fact, to be a bit better than one’s neighbour was considered excessively vulgar and middle-class. nowadays, with our modern mania for morality, every one has to pose as a paragon of purity, incorruptibility, and all the other seven deadly virtues—and what is the result? you all go over like ninepins—one after the other. not a year passes in england without somebody disappearing. scandals used to lend charm, or at least interest, to a man—now they crush him. and yours is a very nasty scandal. you couldn’t survive it. if it were known that as a young man, secretary to a great and important minister, you sold a cabinet secret for a large sum of money, and that that was the origin of your wealth and career, you would be hounded out of public life, you would disappear completely. and after all, sir robert, why should you sacrifice your entire future rather than deal diplomatically with your enemy? for the moment i am your enemy. i admit it! and i am much stronger than you are. the big battalions are on my side. you have a splendid position, but it is your splendid position that makes you so vulnerable. you can’t defend it! and i am in attack. of course i have not talked morality to you. you must admit in fairness that i have spared you that. years ago you did a clever, unscrupulous thing; it turned out a great success. you owe to it your fortune and position. and now you have got to pay for it. sooner or later we have all to pay for what we do. you have to pay now. before i leave you to-night, you have got to promise me to suppress your report, and to speak in the house in favour of this scheme. sir robert chiltern. what you ask is impossible. mrs. cheveley. you must make it possible. you are going to make it possible. sir robert, you know what your english newspapers are like. suppose that when i leave this house i drive down to some newspaper office, and give them this scandal and the proofs of it! think of their loathsome joy, of the delight they would have in dragging you down, of the mud and mire they would plunge you in. think of the hypocrite with his greasy smile penning his leading article, and arranging the foulness of the public placard. sir robert chiltern. stop! you want me to withdraw the report and to make a short speech stating that i believe there are possibilities in the scheme? mrs. cheveley. [_sitting down on the sofa_.] those are my terms. sir robert chiltern. [_in a low voice_.] i will give you any sum of money you want. mrs. cheveley. even you are not rich enough, sir robert, to buy back your past. no man is. sir robert chiltern. i will not do what you ask me. i will not. mrs. cheveley. you have to. if you don’t . . . [_rises from the sofa_.] sir robert chiltern. [_bewildered and unnerved_.] wait a moment! what did you propose? you said that you would give me back my letter, didn’t you? mrs. cheveley. yes. that is agreed. i will be in the ladies’ gallery to-morrow night at half-past eleven. if by that time—and you will have had heaps of opportunity—you have made an announcement to the house in the terms i wish, i shall hand you back your letter with the prettiest thanks, and the best, or at any rate the most suitable, compliment i can think of. i intend to play quite fairly with you. one should always play fairly . . . when one has the winning cards. the baron taught me that . . . amongst other things. sir robert chiltern. you must let me have time to consider your proposal. mrs. cheveley. no; you must settle now! sir robert chiltern. give me a week—three days! mrs. cheveley. impossible! i have got to telegraph to vienna to-night. sir robert chiltern. my god! what brought you into my life? mrs. cheveley. circumstances. [_moves towards the door_.] sir robert chiltern. don’t go. i consent. the report shall be withdrawn. i will arrange for a question to be put to me on the subject. mrs. cheveley. thank you. i knew we should come to an amicable agreement. i understood your nature from the first. i analysed you, though you did not adore me. and now you can get my carriage for me, sir robert. i see the people coming up from supper, and englishmen always get romantic after a meal, and that bores me dreadfully. [_exit_ sir robert chiltern.] [_enter guests_, lady chiltern, lady markby, lord caversham, lady basildon, mrs. marchmont, vicomte de nanjac, mr. montford.] lady markby. well, dear mrs. cheveley, i hope you have enjoyed yourself. sir robert is very entertaining, is he not? mrs. cheveley. most entertaining! i have enjoyed my talk with him immensely. lady markby. he has had a very interesting and brilliant career. and he has married a most admirable wife. lady chiltern is a woman of the very highest principles, i am glad to say. i am a little too old now, myself, to trouble about setting a good example, but i always admire people who do. and lady chiltern has a very ennobling effect on life, though her dinner-parties are rather dull sometimes. but one can’t have everything, can one? and now i must go, dear. shall i call for you to-morrow? mrs. cheveley. thanks. lady markby. we might drive in the park at five. everything looks so fresh in the park now! mrs. cheveley. except the people! lady markby. perhaps the people are a little jaded. i have often observed that the season as it goes on produces a kind of softening of the brain. however, i think anything is better than high intellectual pressure. that is the most unbecoming thing there is. it makes the noses of the young girls so particularly large. and there is nothing so difficult to marry as a large nose; men don’t like them. good-night, dear! [_to_ lady chiltern.] good-night, gertrude! [_goes out on_ lord caversham’s _arm_.] mrs. cheveley. what a charming house you have, lady chiltern! i have spent a delightful evening. it has been so interesting getting to know your husband. lady chiltern. why did you wish to meet my husband, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. oh, i will tell you. i wanted to interest him in this argentine canal scheme, of which i dare say you have heard. and i found him most susceptible,—susceptible to reason, i mean. a rare thing in a man. i converted him in ten minutes. he is going to make a speech in the house to-morrow night in favour of the idea. we must go to the ladies’ gallery and hear him! it will be a great occasion! lady chiltern. there must be some mistake. that scheme could never have my husband’s support. mrs. cheveley. oh, i assure you it’s all settled. i don’t regret my tedious journey from vienna now. it has been a great success. but, of course, for the next twenty-four hours the whole thing is a dead secret. lady chiltern. [_gently_.] a secret? between whom? mrs. cheveley. [_with a flash of amusement in her eyes_.] between your husband and myself. sir robert chiltern. [_entering_.] your carriage is here, mrs. cheveley! mrs. cheveley. thanks! good evening, lady chiltern! good-night, lord goring! i am at claridge’s. don’t you think you might leave a card? lord goring. if you wish it, mrs. cheveley! mrs. cheveley. oh, don’t be so solemn about it, or i shall be obliged to leave a card on you. in england i suppose that would hardly be considered en règle. abroad, we are more civilised. will you see me down, sir robert? now that we have both the same interests at heart we shall be great friends, i hope! [_sails out on_ sir robert chiltern’s _arm_. lady chiltern _goes to the top of the staircase and looks down at them as they descend_. _her expression is troubled_. _after a little time she is joined by some of the guests_, _and passes with them into another reception-room_.] mabel chiltern. what a horrid woman! lord goring. you should go to bed, miss mabel. mabel chiltern. lord goring! lord goring. my father told me to go to bed an hour ago. i don’t see why i shouldn’t give you the same advice. i always pass on good advice. it is the only thing to do with it. it is never of any use to oneself. mabel chiltern. lord goring, you are always ordering me out of the room. i think it most courageous of you. especially as i am not going to bed for hours. [_goes over to the sofa_.] you can come and sit down if you like, and talk about anything in the world, except the royal academy, mrs. cheveley, or novels in scotch dialect. they are not improving subjects. [_catches sight of something that is lying on the sofa half hidden by the cushion_.] what is this? some one has dropped a diamond brooch! quite beautiful, isn’t it? [_shows it to him_.] i wish it was mine, but gertrude won’t let me wear anything but pearls, and i am thoroughly sick of pearls. they make one look so plain, so good and so intellectual. i wonder whom the brooch belongs to. lord goring. i wonder who dropped it. mabel chiltern. it is a beautiful brooch. lord goring. it is a handsome bracelet. mabel chiltern. it isn’t a bracelet. it’s a brooch. lord goring. it can be used as a bracelet. [_takes it from her_, _and_, _pulling out a green letter-case_, _puts the ornament carefully in it_, _and replaces the whole thing in his breast-pocket with the most perfect sang froid_.] mabel chiltern. what are you doing? lord goring. miss mabel, i am going to make a rather strange request to you. mabel chiltern. [_eagerly_.] oh, pray do! i have been waiting for it all the evening. lord goring. [_is a little taken aback_, _but recovers himself_.] don’t mention to anybody that i have taken charge of this brooch. should any one write and claim it, let me know at once. mabel chiltern. that is a strange request. lord goring. well, you see i gave this brooch to somebody once, years ago. mabel chiltern. you did? lord goring. yes. [lady chiltern _enters alone_. _the other guests have gone_.] mabel chiltern. then i shall certainly bid you good-night. good-night, gertrude! [_exit_.] lady chiltern. good-night, dear! [_to_ lord goring.] you saw whom lady markby brought here to-night? lord goring. yes. it was an unpleasant surprise. what did she come here for? lady chiltern. apparently to try and lure robert to uphold some fraudulent scheme in which she is interested. the argentine canal, in fact. lord goring. she has mistaken her man, hasn’t she? lady chiltern. she is incapable of understanding an upright nature like my husband’s! lord goring. yes. i should fancy she came to grief if she tried to get robert into her toils. it is extraordinary what astounding mistakes clever women make. lady chiltern. i don’t call women of that kind clever. i call them stupid! lord goring. same thing often. good-night, lady chiltern! lady chiltern. good-night! [_enter_ sir robert chiltern.] sir robert chiltern. my dear arthur, you are not going? do stop a little! lord goring. afraid i can’t, thanks. i have promised to look in at the hartlocks’. i believe they have got a mauve hungarian band that plays mauve hungarian music. see you soon. good-bye! [_exit_] sir robert chiltern. how beautiful you look to-night, gertrude! lady chiltern. robert, it is not true, is it? you are not going to lend your support to this argentine speculation? you couldn’t! sir robert chiltern. [_starting_.] who told you i intended to do so? lady chiltern. that woman who has just gone out, mrs. cheveley, as she calls herself now. she seemed to taunt me with it. robert, i know this woman. you don’t. we were at school together. she was untruthful, dishonest, an evil influence on every one whose trust or friendship she could win. i hated, i despised her. she stole things, she was a thief. she was sent away for being a thief. why do you let her influence you? sir robert chiltern. gertrude, what you tell me may be true, but it happened many years ago. it is best forgotten! mrs. cheveley may have changed since then. no one should be entirely judged by their past. lady chiltern. [_sadly_.] one’s past is what one is. it is the only way by which people should be judged. sir robert chiltern. that is a hard saying, gertrude! lady chiltern. it is a true saying, robert. and what did she mean by boasting that she had got you to lend your support, your name, to a thing i have heard you describe as the most dishonest and fraudulent scheme there has ever been in political life? sir robert chiltern. [_biting his lip_.] i was mistaken in the view i took. we all may make mistakes. lady chiltern. but you told me yesterday that you had received the report from the commission, and that it entirely condemned the whole thing. sir robert chiltern. [_walking up and down_.] i have reasons now to believe that the commission was prejudiced, or, at any rate, misinformed. besides, gertrude, public and private life are different things. they have different laws, and move on different lines. lady chiltern. they should both represent man at his highest. i see no difference between them. sir robert chiltern. [_stopping_.] in the present case, on a matter of practical politics, i have changed my mind. that is all. lady chiltern. all! sir robert chiltern. [_sternly_.] yes! lady chiltern. robert! oh! it is horrible that i should have to ask you such a question—robert, are you telling me the whole truth? sir robert chiltern. why do you ask me such a question? lady chiltern. [_after a pause_.] why do you not answer it? sir robert chiltern. [_sitting down_.] gertrude, truth is a very complex thing, and politics is a very complex business. there are wheels within wheels. one may be under certain obligations to people that one must pay. sooner or later in political life one has to compromise. every one does. lady chiltern. compromise? robert, why do you talk so differently to-night from the way i have always heard you talk? why are you changed? sir robert chiltern. i am not changed. but circumstances alter things. lady chiltern. circumstances should never alter principles! sir robert chiltern. but if i told you— lady chiltern. what? sir robert chiltern. that it was necessary, vitally necessary? lady chiltern. it can never be necessary to do what is not honourable. or if it be necessary, then what is it that i have loved! but it is not, robert; tell me it is not. why should it be? what gain would you get? money? we have no need of that! and money that comes from a tainted source is a degradation. power? but power is nothing in itself. it is power to do good that is fine—that, and that only. what is it, then? robert, tell me why you are going to do this dishonourable thing! sir robert chiltern. gertrude, you have no right to use that word. i told you it was a question of rational compromise. it is no more than that. lady chiltern. robert, that is all very well for other men, for men who treat life simply as a sordid speculation; but not for you, robert, not for you. you are different. all your life you have stood apart from others. you have never let the world soil you. to the world, as to myself, you have been an ideal always. oh! be that ideal still. that great inheritance throw not away—that tower of ivory do not destroy. robert, men can love what is beneath them—things unworthy, stained, dishonoured. we women worship when we love; and when we lose our worship, we lose everything. oh! don’t kill my love for you, don’t kill that! sir robert chiltern. gertrude! lady chiltern. i know that there are men with horrible secrets in their lives—men who have done some shameful thing, and who in some critical moment have to pay for it, by doing some other act of shame—oh! don’t tell me you are such as they are! robert, is there in your life any secret dishonour or disgrace? tell me, tell me at once, that— sir robert chiltern. that what? lady chiltern. [_speaking very slowly_.] that our lives may drift apart. sir robert chiltern. drift apart? lady chiltern. that they may be entirely separate. it would be better for us both. sir robert chiltern. gertrude, there is nothing in my past life that you might not know. lady chiltern. i was sure of it, robert, i was sure of it. but why did you say those dreadful things, things so unlike your real self? don’t let us ever talk about the subject again. you will write, won’t you, to mrs. cheveley, and tell her that you cannot support this scandalous scheme of hers? if you have given her any promise you must take it back, that is all! sir robert chiltern. must i write and tell her that? lady chiltern. surely, robert! what else is there to do? sir robert chiltern. i might see her personally. it would be better. lady chiltern. you must never see her again, robert. she is not a woman you should ever speak to. she is not worthy to talk to a man like you. no; you must write to her at once, now, this moment, and let your letter show her that your decision is quite irrevocable! sir robert chiltern. write this moment! lady chiltern. yes. sir robert chiltern. but it is so late. it is close on twelve. lady chiltern. that makes no matter. she must know at once that she has been mistaken in you—and that you are not a man to do anything base or underhand or dishonourable. write here, robert. write that you decline to support this scheme of hers, as you hold it to be a dishonest scheme. yes—write the word dishonest. she knows what that word means. [sir robert chiltern _sits down and writes a letter_. _his wife takes it up and reads it_.] yes; that will do. [_rings bell_.] and now the envelope. [_he writes the envelope slowly_. _enter_ mason.] have this letter sent at once to claridge’s hotel. there is no answer. [_exit_ mason. lady chiltern _kneels down beside her husband_, _and puts her arms around him_.] robert, love gives one an instinct to things. i feel to-night that i have saved you from something that might have been a danger to you, from something that might have made men honour you less than they do. i don’t think you realise sufficiently, robert, that you have brought into the political life of our time a nobler atmosphere, a finer attitude towards life, a freer air of purer aims and higher ideals—i know it, and for that i love you, robert. sir robert chiltern. oh, love me always, gertrude, love me always! lady chiltern. i will love you always, because you will always be worthy of love. we needs must love the highest when we see it! [_kisses him and rises and goes out_.] [sir robert chiltern _walks up and down for a moment_; _then sits down and buries his face in his hands_. _the servant enters and begins pulling out the lights_. sir robert chiltern _looks up_.] sir robert chiltern. put out the lights, mason, put out the lights! [_the servant puts out the lights_. _the room becomes almost dark_. _the only light there is comes from the great chandelier that hangs over the staircase and illumines the tapestry of the triumph of love_.] act drop second act scene _morning-room at sir robert chiltern’s house_. [lord goring, _dressed in the height of fashion_, _is lounging in an armchair_. sir robert chiltern _is standing in front of the fireplace_. _he is evidently in a state of great mental excitement and distress_. _as the scene progresses he paces nervously up and down the room_.] lord goring. my dear robert, it’s a very awkward business, very awkward indeed. you should have told your wife the whole thing. secrets from other people’s wives are a necessary luxury in modern life. so, at least, i am always told at the club by people who are bald enough to know better. but no man should have a secret from his own wife. she invariably finds it out. women have a wonderful instinct about things. they can discover everything except the obvious. sir robert chiltern. arthur, i couldn’t tell my wife. when could i have told her? not last night. it would have made a life-long separation between us, and i would have lost the love of the one woman in the world i worship, of the only woman who has ever stirred love within me. last night it would have been quite impossible. she would have turned from me in horror . . . in horror and in contempt. lord goring. is lady chiltern as perfect as all that? sir robert chiltern. yes; my wife is as perfect as all that. lord goring. [_taking off his left-hand glove_.] what a pity! i beg your pardon, my dear fellow, i didn’t quite mean that. but if what you tell me is true, i should like to have a serious talk about life with lady chiltern. sir robert chiltern. it would be quite useless. lord goring. may i try? sir robert chiltern. yes; but nothing could make her alter her views. lord goring. well, at the worst it would simply be a psychological experiment. sir robert chiltern. all such experiments are terribly dangerous. lord goring. everything is dangerous, my dear fellow. if it wasn’t so, life wouldn’t be worth living. . . . well, i am bound to say that i think you should have told her years ago. sir robert chiltern. when? when we were engaged? do you think she would have married me if she had known that the origin of my fortune is such as it is, the basis of my career such as it is, and that i had done a thing that i suppose most men would call shameful and dishonourable? lord goring. [_slowly_.] yes; most men would call it ugly names. there is no doubt of that. sir robert chiltern. [_bitterly_.] men who every day do something of the same kind themselves. men who, each one of them, have worse secrets in their own lives. lord goring. that is the reason they are so pleased to find out other people’s secrets. it distracts public attention from their own. sir robert chiltern. and, after all, whom did i wrong by what i did? no one. lord goring. [_looking at him steadily_.] except yourself, robert. sir robert chiltern. [_after a pause_.] of course i had private information about a certain transaction contemplated by the government of the day, and i acted on it. private information is practically the source of every large modern fortune. lord goring. [_tapping his boot with his cane_.] and public scandal invariably the result. sir robert chiltern. [_pacing up and down the room_.] arthur, do you think that what i did nearly eighteen years ago should be brought up against me now? do you think it fair that a man’s whole career should be ruined for a fault done in one’s boyhood almost? i was twenty-two at the time, and i had the double misfortune of being well-born and poor, two unforgiveable things nowadays. is it fair that the folly, the sin of one’s youth, if men choose to call it a sin, should wreck a life like mine, should place me in the pillory, should shatter all that i have worked for, all that i have built up. is it fair, arthur? lord goring. life is never fair, robert. and perhaps it is a good thing for most of us that it is not. sir robert chiltern. every man of ambition has to fight his century with its own weapons. what this century worships is wealth. the god of this century is wealth. to succeed one must have wealth. at all costs one must have wealth. lord goring. you underrate yourself, robert. believe me, without wealth you could have succeeded just as well. sir robert chiltern. when i was old, perhaps. when i had lost my passion for power, or could not use it. when i was tired, worn out, disappointed. i wanted my success when i was young. youth is the time for success. i couldn’t wait. lord goring. well, you certainly have had your success while you are still young. no one in our day has had such a brilliant success. under-secretary for foreign affairs at the age of forty—that’s good enough for any one, i should think. sir robert chiltern. and if it is all taken away from me now? if i lose everything over a horrible scandal? if i am hounded from public life? lord goring. robert, how could you have sold yourself for money? sir robert chiltern. [_excitedly_.] i did not sell myself for money. i bought success at a great price. that is all. lord goring. [_gravely_.] yes; you certainly paid a great price for it. but what first made you think of doing such a thing? sir robert chiltern. baron arnheim. lord goring. damned scoundrel! sir robert chiltern. no; he was a man of a most subtle and refined intellect. a man of culture, charm, and distinction. one of the most intellectual men i ever met. lord goring. ah! i prefer a gentlemanly fool any day. there is more to be said for stupidity than people imagine. personally i have a great admiration for stupidity. it is a sort of fellow-feeling, i suppose. but how did he do it? tell me the whole thing. sir robert chiltern. [_throws himself into an armchair by the writing-table_.] one night after dinner at lord radley’s the baron began talking about success in modern life as something that one could reduce to an absolutely definite science. with that wonderfully fascinating quiet voice of his he expounded to us the most terrible of all philosophies, the philosophy of power, preached to us the most marvellous of all gospels, the gospel of gold. i think he saw the effect he had produced on me, for some days afterwards he wrote and asked me to come and see him. he was living then in park lane, in the house lord woolcomb has now. i remember so well how, with a strange smile on his pale, curved lips, he led me through his wonderful picture gallery, showed me his tapestries, his enamels, his jewels, his carved ivories, made me wonder at the strange loveliness of the luxury in which he lived; and then told me that luxury was nothing but a background, a painted scene in a play, and that power, power over other men, power over the world, was the one thing worth having, the one supreme pleasure worth knowing, the one joy one never tired of, and that in our century only the rich possessed it. lord goring. [_with great deliberation_.] a thoroughly shallow creed. sir robert chiltern. [_rising_.] i didn’t think so then. i don’t think so now. wealth has given me enormous power. it gave me at the very outset of my life freedom, and freedom is everything. you have never been poor, and never known what ambition is. you cannot understand what a wonderful chance the baron gave me. such a chance as few men get. lord goring. fortunately for them, if one is to judge by results. but tell me definitely, how did the baron finally persuade you to—well, to do what you did? sir robert chiltern. when i was going away he said to me that if i ever could give him any private information of real value he would make me a very rich man. i was dazed at the prospect he held out to me, and my ambition and my desire for power were at that time boundless. six weeks later certain private documents passed through my hands. lord goring. [_keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the carpet_.] state documents? sir robert chiltern. yes. [lord goring _sighs_, _then passes his hand across his forehead and looks up_.] lord goring. i had no idea that you, of all men in the world, could have been so weak, robert, as to yield to such a temptation as baron arnheim held out to you. sir robert chiltern. weak? oh, i am sick of hearing that phrase. sick of using it about others. weak? do you really think, arthur, that it is weakness that yields to temptation? i tell you that there are terrible temptations that it requires strength, strength and courage, to yield to. to stake all one’s life on a single moment, to risk everything on one throw, whether the stake be power or pleasure, i care not—there is no weakness in that. there is a horrible, a terrible courage. i had that courage. i sat down the same afternoon and wrote baron arnheim the letter this woman now holds. he made three-quarters of a million over the transaction. lord goring. and you? sir robert chiltern. i received from the baron <UNK> lord goring. you were worth more, robert. sir robert chiltern. no; that money gave me exactly what i wanted, power over others. i went into the house immediately. the baron advised me in finance from time to time. before five years i had almost trebled my fortune. since then everything that i have touched has turned out a success. in all things connected with money i have had a luck so extraordinary that sometimes it has made me almost afraid. i remember having read somewhere, in some strange book, that when the gods wish to punish us they answer our prayers. lord goring. but tell me, robert, did you never suffer any regret for what you had done? sir robert chiltern. no. i felt that i had fought the century with its own weapons, and won. lord goring. [_sadly_.] you thought you had won. sir robert chiltern. i thought so. [_after a long pause_.] arthur, do you despise me for what i have told you? lord goring. [_with deep feeling in his voice_.] i am very sorry for you, robert, very sorry indeed. sir robert chiltern. i don’t say that i suffered any remorse. i didn’t. not remorse in the ordinary, rather silly sense of the word. but i have paid conscience money many times. i had a wild hope that i might disarm destiny. the sum baron arnheim gave me i have distributed twice over in public charities since then. lord goring. [_looking up_.] in public charities? dear me! what a lot of harm you must have done, robert! sir robert chiltern. oh, don’t say that, arthur; don’t talk like that! lord goring. never mind what i say, robert! i am always saying what i shouldn’t say. in fact, i usually say what i really think. a great mistake nowadays. it makes one so liable to be misunderstood. as regards this dreadful business, i will help you in whatever way i can. of course you know that. sir robert chiltern. thank you, arthur, thank you. but what is to be done? what can be done? lord goring. [_leaning back with his hands in his pockets_.] well, the english can’t stand a man who is always saying he is in the right, but they are very fond of a man who admits that he has been in the wrong. it is one of the best things in them. however, in your case, robert, a confession would not do. the money, if you will allow me to say so, is . . . awkward. besides, if you did make a clean breast of the whole affair, you would never be able to talk morality again. and in england a man who can’t talk morality twice a week to a large, popular, immoral audience is quite over as a serious politician. there would be nothing left for him as a profession except botany or the church. a confession would be of no use. it would ruin you. sir robert chiltern. it would ruin me. arthur, the only thing for me to do now is to fight the thing out. lord goring. [_rising from his chair_.] i was waiting for you to say that, robert. it is the only thing to do now. and you must begin by telling your wife the whole story. sir robert chiltern. that i will not do. lord goring. robert, believe me, you are wrong. sir robert chiltern. i couldn’t do it. it would kill her love for me. and now about this woman, this mrs. cheveley. how can i defend myself against her? you knew her before, arthur, apparently. lord goring. yes. sir robert chiltern. did you know her well? lord goring. [_arranging his necktie_.] so little that i got engaged to be married to her once, when i was staying at the tenbys’. the affair lasted for three days . . . nearly. sir robert chiltern. why was it broken off? lord goring. [_airily_.] oh, i forget. at least, it makes no matter. by the way, have you tried her with money? she used to be confoundedly fond of money. sir robert chiltern. i offered her any sum she wanted. she refused. lord goring. then the marvellous gospel of gold breaks down sometimes. the rich can’t do everything, after all. sir robert chiltern. not everything. i suppose you are right. arthur, i feel that public disgrace is in store for me. i feel certain of it. i never knew what terror was before. i know it now. it is as if a hand of ice were laid upon one’s heart. it is as if one’s heart were beating itself to death in some empty hollow. lord goring. [_striking the table_.] robert, you must fight her. you must fight her. sir robert chiltern. but how? lord goring. i can’t tell you how at present. i have not the smallest idea. but every one has some weak point. there is some flaw in each one of us. [_strolls to the fireplace and looks at himself in the glass_.] my father tells me that even i have faults. perhaps i have. i don’t know. sir robert chiltern. in defending myself against mrs. cheveley, i have a right to use any weapon i can find, have i not? lord goring. [_still looking in the glass_.] in your place i don’t think i should have the smallest scruple in doing so. she is thoroughly well able to take care of herself. sir robert chiltern. [_sits down at the table and takes a pen in his hand_.] well, i shall send a cipher telegram to the embassy at vienna, to inquire if there is anything known against her. there may be some secret scandal she might be afraid of. lord goring. [_settling his buttonhole_.] oh, i should fancy mrs. cheveley is one of those very modern women of our time who find a new scandal as becoming as a new bonnet, and air them both in the park every afternoon at five-thirty. i am sure she adores scandals, and that the sorrow of her life at present is that she can’t manage to have enough of them. sir robert chiltern. [_writing_.] why do you say that? lord goring. [_turning round_.] well, she wore far too much rouge last night, and not quite enough clothes. that is always a sign of despair in a woman. sir robert chiltern. [_striking a bell_.] but it is worth while my wiring to vienna, is it not? lord goring. it is always worth while asking a question, though it is not always worth while answering one. [_enter_ mason.] sir robert chiltern. is mr. trafford in his room? mason. yes, sir robert. sir robert chiltern. [_puts what he has written into an envelope_, _which he then carefully closes_.] tell him to have this sent off in cipher at once. there must not be a moment’s delay. mason. yes, sir robert. sir robert chiltern. oh! just give that back to me again. [_writes something on the envelope_. mason _then goes out with the letter_.] sir robert chiltern. she must have had some curious hold over baron arnheim. i wonder what it was. lord goring. [_smiling_.] i wonder. sir robert chiltern. i will fight her to the death, as long as my wife knows nothing. lord goring. [_strongly_.] oh, fight in any case—in any case. sir robert chiltern. [_with a gesture of despair_.] if my wife found out, there would be little left to fight for. well, as soon as i hear from vienna, i shall let you know the result. it is a chance, just a chance, but i believe in it. and as i fought the age with its own weapons, i will fight her with her weapons. it is only fair, and she looks like a woman with a past, doesn’t she? lord goring. most pretty women do. but there is a fashion in pasts just as there is a fashion in frocks. perhaps mrs. cheveley’s past is merely a slightly décolleté one, and they are excessively popular nowadays. besides, my dear robert, i should not build too high hopes on frightening mrs. cheveley. i should not fancy mrs. cheveley is a woman who would be easily frightened. she has survived all her creditors, and she shows wonderful presence of mind. sir robert chiltern. oh! i live on hopes now. i clutch at every chance. i feel like a man on a ship that is sinking. the water is round my feet, and the very air is bitter with storm. hush! i hear my wife’s voice. [_enter_ lady chiltern _in walking dress_.] lady chiltern. good afternoon, lord goring! lord goring. good afternoon, lady chiltern! have you been in the park? lady chiltern. no; i have just come from the woman’s liberal association, where, by the way, robert, your name was received with loud applause, and now i have come in to have my tea. [_to_ lord goring.] you will wait and have some tea, won’t you? lord goring. i’ll wait for a short time, thanks. lady chiltern. i will be back in a moment. i am only going to take my hat off. lord goring. [_in his most earnest manner_.] oh! please don’t. it is so pretty. one of the prettiest hats i ever saw. i hope the woman’s liberal association received it with loud applause. lady chiltern. [_with a smile_.] we have much more important work to do than look at each other’s bonnets, lord goring. lord goring. really? what sort of work? lady chiltern. oh! dull, useful, delightful things, factory acts, female inspectors, the eight hours’ bill, the parliamentary franchise. . . . everything, in fact, that you would find thoroughly uninteresting. lord goring. and never bonnets? lady chiltern. [_with mock indignation_.] never bonnets, never! [lady chiltern _goes out through the door leading to her boudoir_.] sir robert chiltern. [_takes_ lord goring’s _hand_.] you have been a good friend to me, arthur, a thoroughly good friend. lord goring. i don’t know that i have been able to do much for you, robert, as yet. in fact, i have not been able to do anything for you, as far as i can see. i am thoroughly disappointed with myself. sir robert chiltern. you have enabled me to tell you the truth. that is something. the truth has always stifled me. lord goring. ah! the truth is a thing i get rid of as soon as possible! bad habit, by the way. makes one very unpopular at the club . . . with the older members. they call it being conceited. perhaps it is. sir robert chiltern. i would to god that i had been able to tell the truth . . . to live the truth. ah! that is the great thing in life, to live the truth. [_sighs_, _and goes towards the door_.] i’ll see you soon again, arthur, shan’t i? lord goring. certainly. whenever you like. i’m going to look in at the bachelors’ ball to-night, unless i find something better to do. but i’ll come round to-morrow morning. if you should want me to-night by any chance, send round a note to curzon street. sir robert chiltern. thank you. [_as he reaches the door_, lady chiltern _enters from her boudoir_.] lady chiltern. you are not going, robert? sir robert chiltern. i have some letters to write, dear. lady chiltern. [_going to him_.] you work too hard, robert. you seem never to think of yourself, and you are looking so tired. sir robert chiltern. it is nothing, dear, nothing. [_he kisses her and goes out_.] lady chiltern. [_to_ lord goring.] do sit down. i am so glad you have called. i want to talk to you about . . . well, not about bonnets, or the woman’s liberal association. you take far too much interest in the first subject, and not nearly enough in the second. lord goring. you want to talk to me about mrs. cheveley? lady chiltern. yes. you have guessed it. after you left last night i found out that what she had said was really true. of course i made robert write her a letter at once, withdrawing his promise. lord goring. so he gave me to understand. lady chiltern. to have kept it would have been the first stain on a career that has been stainless always. robert must be above reproach. he is not like other men. he cannot afford to do what other men do. [_she looks at_ lord goring, _who remains silent_.] don’t you agree with me? you are robert’s greatest friend. you are our greatest friend, lord goring. no one, except myself, knows robert better than you do. he has no secrets from me, and i don’t think he has any from you. lord goring. he certainly has no secrets from me. at least i don’t think so. lady chiltern. then am i not right in my estimate of him? i know i am right. but speak to me frankly. lord goring. [_looking straight at her_.] quite frankly? lady chiltern. surely. you have nothing to conceal, have you? lord goring. nothing. but, my dear lady chiltern, i think, if you will allow me to say so, that in practical life— lady chiltern. [_smiling_.] of which you know so little, lord goring— lord goring. of which i know nothing by experience, though i know something by observation. i think that in practical life there is something about success, actual success, that is a little unscrupulous, something about ambition that is unscrupulous always. once a man has set his heart and soul on getting to a certain point, if he has to climb the crag, he climbs the crag; if he has to walk in the mire— lady chiltern. well? lord goring. he walks in the mire. of course i am only talking generally about life. lady chiltern. [_gravely_.] i hope so. why do you look at me so strangely, lord goring? lord goring. lady chiltern, i have sometimes thought that . . . perhaps you are a little hard in some of your views on life. i think that . . . often you don’t make sufficient allowances. in every nature there are elements of weakness, or worse than weakness. supposing, for instance, that—that any public man, my father, or lord merton, or robert, say, had, years ago, written some foolish letter to some one . . . lady chiltern. what do you mean by a foolish letter? lord goring. a letter gravely compromising one’s position. i am only putting an imaginary case. lady chiltern. robert is as incapable of doing a foolish thing as he is of doing a wrong thing. lord goring. [_after a long pause_.] nobody is incapable of doing a foolish thing. nobody is incapable of doing a wrong thing. lady chiltern. are you a pessimist? what will the other dandies say? they will all have to go into mourning. lord goring. [_rising_.] no, lady chiltern, i am not a pessimist. indeed i am not sure that i quite know what pessimism really means. all i do know is that life cannot be understood without much charity, cannot be lived without much charity. it is love, and not german philosophy, that is the true explanation of this world, whatever may be the explanation of the next. and if you are ever in trouble, lady chiltern, trust me absolutely, and i will help you in every way i can. if you ever want me, come to me for my assistance, and you shall have it. come at once to me. lady chiltern. [_looking at him in surprise_.] lord goring, you are talking quite seriously. i don’t think i ever heard you talk seriously before. lord goring. [_laughing_.] you must excuse me, lady chiltern. it won’t occur again, if i can help it. lady chiltern. but i like you to be serious. [_enter_ mabel chiltern, _in the most ravishing frock_.] mabel chiltern. dear gertrude, don’t say such a dreadful thing to lord goring. seriousness would be very unbecoming to him. good afternoon lord goring! pray be as trivial as you can. lord goring. i should like to, miss mabel, but i am afraid i am . . . a little out of practice this morning; and besides, i have to be going now. mabel chiltern. just when i have come in! what dreadful manners you have! i am sure you were very badly brought up. lord goring. i was. mabel chiltern. i wish i had brought you up! lord goring. i am so sorry you didn’t. mabel chiltern. it is too late now, i suppose? lord goring. [_smiling_.] i am not so sure. mabel chiltern. will you ride to-morrow morning? lord goring. yes, at ten. mabel chiltern. don’t forget. lord goring. of course i shan’t. by the way, lady chiltern, there is no list of your guests in _the morning post_ of to-day. it has apparently been crowded out by the county council, or the lambeth conference, or something equally boring. could you let me have a list? i have a particular reason for asking you. lady chiltern. i am sure mr. trafford will be able to give you one. lord goring. thanks, so much. mabel chiltern. tommy is the most useful person in london. lord goring [_turning to her_.] and who is the most ornamental? mabel chiltern [_triumphantly_.] i am. lord goring. how clever of you to guess it! [_takes up his hat and cane_.] good-bye, lady chiltern! you will remember what i said to you, won’t you? lady chiltern. yes; but i don’t know why you said it to me. lord goring. i hardly know myself. good-bye, miss mabel! mabel chiltern [_with a little moue of disappointment_.] i wish you were not going. i have had four wonderful adventures this morning; four and a half, in fact. you might stop and listen to some of them. lord goring. how very selfish of you to have four and a half! there won’t be any left for me. mabel chiltern. i don’t want you to have any. they would not be good for you. lord goring. that is the first unkind thing you have ever said to me. how charmingly you said it! ten to-morrow. mabel chiltern. sharp. lord goring. quite sharp. but don’t bring mr. trafford. mabel chiltern. [_with a little toss of the head_.] of course i shan’t bring tommy trafford. tommy trafford is in great disgrace. lord goring. i am delighted to hear it. [_bows and goes out_.] mabel chiltern. gertrude, i wish you would speak to tommy trafford. lady chiltern. what has poor mr. trafford done this time? robert says he is the best secretary he has ever had. mabel chiltern. well, tommy has proposed to me again. tommy really does nothing but propose to me. he proposed to me last night in the music-room, when i was quite unprotected, as there was an elaborate trio going on. i didn’t dare to make the smallest repartee, i need hardly tell you. if i had, it would have stopped the music at once. musical people are so absurdly unreasonable. they always want one to be perfectly dumb at the very moment when one is longing to be absolutely deaf. then he proposed to me in broad daylight this morning, in front of that dreadful statue of achilles. really, the things that go on in front of that work of art are quite appalling. the police should interfere. at luncheon i saw by the glare in his eye that he was going to propose again, and i just managed to check him in time by assuring him that i was a bimetallist. fortunately i don’t know what bimetallism means. and i don’t believe anybody else does either. but the observation crushed tommy for ten minutes. he looked quite shocked. and then tommy is so annoying in the way he proposes. if he proposed at the top of his voice, i should not mind so much. that might produce some effect on the public. but he does it in a horrid confidential way. when tommy wants to be romantic he talks to one just like a doctor. i am very fond of tommy, but his methods of proposing are quite out of date. i wish, gertrude, you would speak to him, and tell him that once a week is quite often enough to propose to any one, and that it should always be done in a manner that attracts some attention. lady chiltern. dear mabel, don’t talk like that. besides, robert thinks very highly of mr. trafford. he believes he has a brilliant future before him. mabel chiltern. oh! i wouldn’t marry a man with a future before him for anything under the sun. lady chiltern. mabel! mabel chiltern. i know, dear. you married a man with a future, didn’t you? but then robert was a genius, and you have a noble, self-sacrificing character. you can stand geniuses. i have no character at all, and robert is the only genius i could ever bear. as a rule, i think they are quite impossible. geniuses talk so much, don’t they? such a bad habit! and they are always thinking about themselves, when i want them to be thinking about me. i must go round now and rehearse at lady basildon’s. you remember, we are having tableaux, don’t you? the triumph of something, i don’t know what! i hope it will be triumph of me. only triumph i am really interested in at present. [_kisses_ lady chiltern _and goes out_; _then comes running back_.] oh, gertrude, do you know who is coming to see you? that dreadful mrs. cheveley, in a most lovely gown. did you ask her? lady chiltern. [_rising_.] mrs. cheveley! coming to see me? impossible! mabel chiltern. i assure you she is coming upstairs, as large as life and not nearly so natural. lady chiltern. you need not wait, mabel. remember, lady basildon is expecting you. mabel chiltern. oh! i must shake hands with lady markby. she is delightful. i love being scolded by her. [_enter_ mason.] mason. lady markby. mrs. cheveley. [_enter_ lady markby _and_ mrs. cheveley.] lady chiltern. [_advancing to meet them_.] dear lady markby, how nice of you to come and see me! [_shakes hands with her_, _and bows somewhat distantly to_ mrs. cheveley.] won’t you sit down, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. thanks. isn’t that miss chiltern? i should like so much to know her. lady chiltern. mabel, mrs. cheveley wishes to know you. [mabel chiltern _gives a little nod_.] mrs. cheveley [_sitting down_.] i thought your frock so charming last night, miss chiltern. so simple and . . . suitable. mabel chiltern. really? i must tell my dressmaker. it will be such a surprise to her. good-bye, lady markby! lady markby. going already? mabel chiltern. i am so sorry but i am obliged to. i am just off to rehearsal. i have got to stand on my head in some tableaux. lady markby. on your head, child? oh! i hope not. i believe it is most unhealthy. [_takes a seat on the sofa next_ lady chiltern.] mabel chiltern. but it is for an excellent charity: in aid of the undeserving, the only people i am really interested in. i am the secretary, and tommy trafford is treasurer. mrs. cheveley. and what is lord goring? mabel chiltern. oh! lord goring is president. mrs. cheveley. the post should suit him admirably, unless he has deteriorated since i knew him first. lady markby. [_reflecting_.] you are remarkably modern, mabel. a little too modern, perhaps. nothing is so dangerous as being too modern. one is apt to grow old-fashioned quite suddenly. i have known many instances of it. mabel chiltern. what a dreadful prospect! lady markby. ah! my dear, you need not be nervous. you will always be as pretty as possible. that is the best fashion there is, and the only fashion that england succeeds in setting. mabel chiltern. [_with a curtsey_.] thank you so much, lady markby, for england . . . and myself. [_goes out_.] lady markby. [_turning to_ lady chiltern.] dear gertrude, we just called to know if mrs. cheveley’s diamond brooch has been found. lady chiltern. here? mrs. cheveley. yes. i missed it when i got back to claridge’s, and i thought i might possibly have dropped it here. lady chiltern. i have heard nothing about it. but i will send for the butler and ask. [_touches the bell_.] mrs. cheveley. oh, pray don’t trouble, lady chiltern. i dare say i lost it at the opera, before we came on here. lady markby. ah yes, i suppose it must have been at the opera. the fact is, we all scramble and jostle so much nowadays that i wonder we have anything at all left on us at the end of an evening. i know myself that, when i am coming back from the drawing room, i always feel as if i hadn’t a shred on me, except a small shred of decent reputation, just enough to prevent the lower classes making painful observations through the windows of the carriage. the fact is that our society is terribly over-populated. really, some one should arrange a proper scheme of assisted emigration. it would do a great deal of good. mrs. cheveley. i quite agree with you, lady markby. it is nearly six years since i have been in london for the season, and i must say society has become dreadfully mixed. one sees the oddest people everywhere. lady markby. that is quite true, dear. but one needn’t know them. i’m sure i don’t know half the people who come to my house. indeed, from all i hear, i shouldn’t like to. [_enter_ mason.] lady chiltern. what sort of a brooch was it that you lost, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. a diamond snake-brooch with a ruby, a rather large ruby. lady markby. i thought you said there was a sapphire on the head, dear? mrs. cheveley [_smiling_.] no, lady markby—a ruby. lady markby. [_nodding her head_.] and very becoming, i am quite sure. lady chiltern. has a ruby and diamond brooch been found in any of the rooms this morning, mason? mason. no, my lady. mrs. cheveley. it really is of no consequence, lady chiltern. i am so sorry to have put you to any inconvenience. lady chiltern. [_coldly_.] oh, it has been no inconvenience. that will do, mason. you can bring tea. [_exit_ mason.] lady markby. well, i must say it is most annoying to lose anything. i remember once at bath, years ago, losing in the pump room an exceedingly handsome cameo bracelet that sir john had given me. i don’t think he has ever given me anything since, i am sorry to say. he has sadly degenerated. really, this horrid house of commons quite ruins our husbands for us. i think the lower house by far the greatest blow to a happy married life that there has been since that terrible thing called the higher education of women was invented. lady chiltern. ah! it is heresy to say that in this house, lady markby. robert is a great champion of the higher education of women, and so, i am afraid, am i. mrs. cheveley. the higher education of men is what i should like to see. men need it so sadly. lady markby. they do, dear. but i am afraid such a scheme would be quite unpractical. i don’t think man has much capacity for development. he has got as far as he can, and that is not far, is it? with regard to women, well, dear gertrude, you belong to the younger generation, and i am sure it is all right if you approve of it. in my time, of course, we were taught not to understand anything. that was the old system, and wonderfully interesting it was. i assure you that the amount of things i and my poor dear sister were taught not to understand was quite extraordinary. but modern women understand everything, i am told. mrs. cheveley. except their husbands. that is the one thing the modern woman never understands. lady markby. and a very good thing too, dear, i dare say. it might break up many a happy home if they did. not yours, i need hardly say, gertrude. you have married a pattern husband. i wish i could say as much for myself. but since sir john has taken to attending the debates regularly, which he never used to do in the good old days, his language has become quite impossible. he always seems to think that he is addressing the house, and consequently whenever he discusses the state of the agricultural labourer, or the welsh church, or something quite improper of that kind, i am obliged to send all the servants out of the room. it is not pleasant to see one’s own butler, who has been with one for twenty-three years, actually blushing at the side-board, and the footmen making contortions in corners like persons in circuses. i assure you my life will be quite ruined unless they send john at once to the upper house. he won’t take any interest in politics then, will he? the house of lords is so sensible. an assembly of gentlemen. but in his present state, sir john is really a great trial. why, this morning before breakfast was half over, he stood up on the hearthrug, put his hands in his pockets, and appealed to the country at the top of his voice. i left the table as soon as i had my second cup of tea, i need hardly say. but his violent language could be heard all over the house! i trust, gertrude, that sir robert is not like that? lady chiltern. but i am very much interested in politics, lady markby. i love to hear robert talk about them. lady markby. well, i hope he is not as devoted to blue books as sir john is. i don’t think they can be quite improving reading for any one. mrs. cheveley [_languidly_.] i have never read a blue book. i prefer books . . . in yellow covers. lady markby. [_genially unconscious_.] yellow is a gayer colour, is it not? i used to wear yellow a good deal in my early days, and would do so now if sir john was not so painfully personal in his observations, and a man on the question of dress is always ridiculous, is he not? mrs. cheveley. oh, no! i think men are the only authorities on dress. lady markby. really? one wouldn’t say so from the sort of hats they wear? would one? [_the butler enters_, _followed by the footman_. _tea is set on a small table close to_ lady chiltern.] lady chiltern. may i give you some tea, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. thanks. [_the butler hands_ mrs. cheveley _a cup of tea on a salver_.] lady chiltern. some tea, lady markby? lady markby. no thanks, dear. [_the servants go out_.] the fact is, i have promised to go round for ten minutes to see poor lady brancaster, who is in very great trouble. her daughter, quite a well-brought-up girl, too, has actually become engaged to be married to a curate in shropshire. it is very sad, very sad indeed. i can’t understand this modern mania for curates. in my time we girls saw them, of course, running about the place like rabbits. but we never took any notice of them, i need hardly say. but i am told that nowadays country society is quite honeycombed with them. i think it most irreligious. and then the eldest son has quarrelled with his father, and it is said that when they meet at the club lord brancaster always hides himself behind the money article in _the times_. however, i believe that is quite a common occurrence nowadays and that they have to take in extra copies of _the times_ at all the clubs in st. james’s street; there are so many sons who won’t have anything to do with their fathers, and so many fathers who won’t speak to their sons. i think myself, it is very much to be regretted. mrs. cheveley. so do i. fathers have so much to learn from their sons nowadays. lady markby. really, dear? what? mrs. cheveley. the art of living. the only really fine art we have produced in modern times. lady markby. [_shaking her head_.] ah! i am afraid lord brancaster knew a good deal about that. more than his poor wife ever did. [_turning to_ lady chiltern.] you know lady brancaster, don’t you, dear? lady chiltern. just slightly. she was staying at langton last autumn, when we were there. lady markby. well, like all stout women, she looks the very picture of happiness, as no doubt you noticed. but there are many tragedies in her family, besides this affair of the curate. her own sister, mrs. jekyll, had a most unhappy life; through no fault of her own, i am sorry to say. she ultimately was so broken-hearted that she went into a convent, or on to the operatic stage, i forget which. no; i think it was decorative art-needlework she took up. i know she had lost all sense of pleasure in life. [_rising_.] and now, gertrude, if you will allow me, i shall leave mrs. cheveley in your charge and call back for her in a quarter of an hour. or perhaps, dear mrs. cheveley, you wouldn’t mind waiting in the carriage while i am with lady brancaster. as i intend it to be a visit of condolence, i shan’t stay long. mrs. cheveley [_rising_.] i don’t mind waiting in the carriage at all, provided there is somebody to look at one. lady markby. well, i hear the curate is always prowling about the house. mrs. cheveley. i am afraid i am not fond of girl friends. lady chiltern [_rising_.] oh, i hope mrs. cheveley will stay here a little. i should like to have a few minutes’ conversation with her. mrs. cheveley. how very kind of you, lady chiltern! believe me, nothing would give me greater pleasure. lady markby. ah! no doubt you both have many pleasant reminiscences of your schooldays to talk over together. good-bye, dear gertrude! shall i see you at lady bonar’s to-night? she has discovered a wonderful new genius. he does . . . nothing at all, i believe. that is a great comfort, is it not? lady chiltern. robert and i are dining at home by ourselves to-night, and i don’t think i shall go anywhere afterwards. robert, of course, will have to be in the house. but there is nothing interesting on. lady markby. dining at home by yourselves? is that quite prudent? ah, i forgot, your husband is an exception. mine is the general rule, and nothing ages a woman so rapidly as having married the general rule. [_exit_ lady markby.] mrs. cheveley. wonderful woman, lady markby, isn’t she? talks more and says less than anybody i ever met. she is made to be a public speaker. much more so than her husband, though he is a typical englishman, always dull and usually violent. lady chiltern. [_makes no answer_, _but remains standing_. _there is a pause_. _then the eyes of the two women meet_. lady chiltern _looks stern and pale_. mrs. cheveley _seem rather amused_.] mrs. cheveley, i think it is right to tell you quite frankly that, had i known who you really were, i should not have invited you to my house last night. mrs. cheveley [_with an impertinent smile_.] really? lady chiltern. i could not have done so. mrs. cheveley. i see that after all these years you have not changed a bit, gertrude. lady chiltern. i never change. mrs. cheveley [_elevating her eyebrows_.] then life has taught you nothing? lady chiltern. it has taught me that a person who has once been guilty of a dishonest and dishonourable action may be guilty of it a second time, and should be shunned. mrs. cheveley. would you apply that rule to every one? lady chiltern. yes, to every one, without exception. mrs. cheveley. then i am sorry for you, gertrude, very sorry for you. lady chiltern. you see now, i was sure, that for many reasons any further acquaintance between us during your stay in london is quite impossible? mrs. cheveley [_leaning back in her chair_.] do you know, gertrude, i don’t mind your talking morality a bit. morality is simply the attitude we adopt towards people whom we personally dislike. you dislike me. i am quite aware of that. and i have always detested you. and yet i have come here to do you a service. lady chiltern. [_contemptuously_.] like the service you wished to render my husband last night, i suppose. thank heaven, i saved him from that. mrs. cheveley. [_starting to her feet_.] it was you who made him write that insolent letter to me? it was you who made him break his promise? lady chiltern. yes. mrs. cheveley. then you must make him keep it. i give you till to-morrow morning—no more. if by that time your husband does not solemnly bind himself to help me in this great scheme in which i am interested— lady chiltern. this fraudulent speculation— mrs. cheveley. call it what you choose. i hold your husband in the hollow of my hand, and if you are wise you will make him do what i tell him. lady chiltern. [_rising and going towards her_.] you are impertinent. what has my husband to do with you? with a woman like you? mrs. cheveley [_with a bitter laugh_.] in this world like meets with like. it is because your husband is himself fraudulent and dishonest that we pair so well together. between you and him there are chasms. he and i are closer than friends. we are enemies linked together. the same sin binds us. lady chiltern. how dare you class my husband with yourself? how dare you threaten him or me? leave my house. you are unfit to enter it. [sir robert chiltern _enters from behind_. _he hears his wife’s last words_, _and sees to whom they are addressed_. _he grows deadly pale_.] mrs. cheveley. your house! a house bought with the price of dishonour. a house, everything in which has been paid for by fraud. [_turns round and sees_ sir robert chiltern.] ask him what the origin of his fortune is! get him to tell you how he sold to a stockbroker a cabinet secret. learn from him to what you owe your position. lady chiltern. it is not true! robert! it is not true! mrs. cheveley. [_pointing at him with outstretched finger_.] look at him! can he deny it? does he dare to? sir robert chiltern. go! go at once. you have done your worst now. mrs. cheveley. my worst? i have not yet finished with you, with either of you. i give you both till to-morrow at noon. if by then you don’t do what i bid you to do, the whole world shall know the origin of robert chiltern. [sir robert chiltern _strikes the bell_. _enter_ mason.] sir robert chiltern. show mrs. cheveley out. [mrs. cheveley _starts_; _then bows with somewhat exaggerated politeness to_ lady chiltern, _who makes no sign of response_. _as she passes by_ sir robert chiltern, _who is standing close to the door_, _she pauses for a moment and looks him straight in the face_. _she then goes out_, _followed by the servant_, _who closes the door after him_. _the husband and wife are left alone_. lady chiltern _stands like some one in a dreadful dream_. _then she turns round and looks at her husband_. _she looks at him with strange eyes_, _as though she were seeing him for the first time_.] lady chiltern. you sold a cabinet secret for money! you began your life with fraud! you built up your career on dishonour! oh, tell me it is not true! lie to me! lie to me! tell me it is not true! sir robert chiltern. what this woman said is quite true. but, gertrude, listen to me. you don’t realise how i was tempted. let me tell you the whole thing. [_goes towards her_.] lady chiltern. don’t come near me. don’t touch me. i feel as if you had soiled me for ever. oh! what a mask you have been wearing all these years! a horrible painted mask! you sold yourself for money. oh! a common thief were better. you put yourself up to sale to the highest bidder! you were bought in the market. you lied to the whole world. and yet you will not lie to me. sir robert chiltern. [_rushing towards her_.] gertrude! gertrude! lady chiltern. [_thrusting him back with outstretched hands_.] no, don’t speak! say nothing! your voice wakes terrible memories—memories of things that made me love you—memories of words that made me love you—memories that now are horrible to me. and how i worshipped you! you were to me something apart from common life, a thing pure, noble, honest, without stain. the world seemed to me finer because you were in it, and goodness more real because you lived. and now—oh, when i think that i made of a man like you my ideal! the ideal of my life! sir robert chiltern. there was your mistake. there was your error. the error all women commit. why can’t you women love us, faults and all? why do you place us on monstrous pedestals? we have all feet of clay, women as well as men; but when we men love women, we love them knowing their weaknesses, their follies, their imperfections, love them all the more, it may be, for that reason. it is not the perfect, but the imperfect, who have need of love. it is when we are wounded by our own hands, or by the hands of others, that love should come to cure us—else what use is love at all? all sins, except a sin against itself, love should forgive. all lives, save loveless lives, true love should pardon. a man’s love is like that. it is wider, larger, more human than a woman’s. women think that they are making ideals of men. what they are making of us are false idols merely. you made your false idol of me, and i had not the courage to come down, show you my wounds, tell you my weaknesses. i was afraid that i might lose your love, as i have lost it now. and so, last night you ruined my life for me—yes, ruined it! what this woman asked of me was nothing compared to what she offered to me. she offered security, peace, stability. the sin of my youth, that i had thought was buried, rose up in front of me, hideous, horrible, with its hands at my throat. i could have killed it for ever, sent it back into its tomb, destroyed its record, burned the one witness against me. you prevented me. no one but you, you know it. and now what is there before me but public disgrace, ruin, terrible shame, the mockery of the world, a lonely dishonoured life, a lonely dishonoured death, it may be, some day? let women make no more ideals of men! let them not put them on alters and bow before them, or they may ruin other lives as completely as you—you whom i have so wildly loved—have ruined mine! [_he passes from the room_. lady chiltern _rushes towards him_, _but the door is closed when she reaches it_. _pale with anguish_, _bewildered_, _helpless_, _she sways like a plant in the water_. _her hands_, _outstretched_, _seem to tremble in the air like blossoms in the mind_. _then she flings herself down beside a sofa and buries her face_. _her sobs are like the sobs of a child_.] act drop third act scene _the library in lord goring’s house_. _an adam room_. _on the right is the door leading into the hall_. _on the left_, _the door of the smoking-room_. _a pair of folding doors at the back open into the drawing-room_. _the fire is lit_. _phipps_, _the butler_, _is arranging some newspapers on the writing-table_. _the distinction of phipps is his impassivity_. _he has been termed by enthusiasts the ideal butler_. _the sphinx is not so incommunicable_. _he is a mask with a manner_. _of his intellectual or emotional life_, _history knows nothing_. _he represents the dominance of form_. [_enter_ lord goring _in evening dress with a buttonhole_. _he is wearing a silk hat and inverness cape_. _white-gloved_, _he carries a louis seize cane_. _his are all the delicate fopperies of fashion_. _one sees that he stands in immediate relation to modern life_, _makes it indeed_, _and so masters it_. _he is the first well-dressed philosopher in the history of thought_.] lord goring. got my second buttonhole for me, phipps? phipps. yes, my lord. [_takes his hat_, _cane_, _and cape_, _and presents new buttonhole on salver_.] lord goring. rather distinguished thing, phipps. i am the only person of the smallest importance in london at present who wears a buttonhole. phipps. yes, my lord. i have observed that, lord goring. [_taking out old buttonhole_.] you see, phipps, fashion is what one wears oneself. what is unfashionable is what other people wear. phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. just as vulgarity is simply the conduct of other people. phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. [_putting in a new buttonhole_.] and falsehoods the truths of other people. phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. other people are quite dreadful. the only possible society is oneself. phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. to love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance, phipps. phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. [_looking at himself in the glass_.] don’t think i quite like this buttonhole, phipps. makes me look a little too old. makes me almost in the prime of life, eh, phipps? phipps. i don’t observe any alteration in your lordship’s appearance. lord goring. you don’t, phipps? phipps. no, my lord. lord goring. i am not quite sure. for the future a more trivial buttonhole, phipps, on thursday evenings. phipps. i will speak to the florist, my lord. she has had a loss in her family lately, which perhaps accounts for the lack of triviality your lordship complains of in the buttonhole. lord goring. extraordinary thing about the lower classes in england—they are always losing their relations. phipps. yes, my lord! they are extremely fortunate in that respect. lord goring. [_turns round and looks at him_. phipps _remains impassive_.] hum! any letters, phipps? phipps. three, my lord. [_hands letters on a salver_.] lord goring. [_takes letters_.] want my cab round in twenty minutes. phipps. yes, my lord. [_goes towards door_.] lord goring. [_holds up letter in pink envelope_.] ahem! phipps, when did this letter arrive? phipps. it was brought by hand just after your lordship went to the club. lord goring. that will do. [_exit_ phipps.] lady chiltern’s handwriting on lady chiltern’s pink notepaper. that is rather curious. i thought robert was to write. wonder what lady chiltern has got to say to me? [_sits at bureau and opens letter_, _and reads it_.] ‘i want you. i trust you. i am coming to you. gertrude.’ [_puts down the letter with a puzzled look_. _then takes it up_, _and reads it again slowly_.] ‘i want you. i trust you. i am coming to you.’ so she has found out everything! poor woman! poor woman! [ _pulls out watch and looks at it_.] but what an hour to call! ten o’clock! i shall have to give up going to the berkshires. however, it is always nice to be expected, and not to arrive. i am not expected at the bachelors’, so i shall certainly go there. well, i will make her stand by her husband. that is the only thing for her to do. that is the only thing for any woman to do. it is the growth of the moral sense in women that makes marriage such a hopeless, one-sided institution. ten o’clock. she should be here soon. i must tell phipps i am not in to any one else. [_goes towards bell_] [_enter_ phipps.] phipps. lord caversham. lord goring. oh, why will parents always appear at the wrong time? some extraordinary mistake in nature, i suppose. [_enter_ lord caversham.] delighted to see you, my dear father. [_goes to meet him_.] lord caversham. take my cloak off. lord goring. is it worth while, father? lord caversham. of course it is worth while, sir. which is the most comfortable chair? lord goring. this one, father. it is the chair i use myself, when i have visitors. lord caversham. thank ye. no draught, i hope, in this room? lord goring. no, father. lord caversham. [_sitting down_.] glad to hear it. can’t stand draughts. no draughts at home. lord goring. good many breezes, father. lord caversham. eh? eh? don’t understand what you mean. want to have a serious conversation with you, sir. lord goring. my dear father! at this hour? lord caversham. well, sir, it is only ten o’clock. what is your objection to the hour? i think the hour is an admirable hour! lord goring. well, the fact is, father, this is not my day for talking seriously. i am very sorry, but it is not my day. lord caversham. what do you mean, sir? lord goring. during the season, father, i only talk seriously on the first tuesday in every month, from four to seven. lord caversham. well, make it tuesday, sir, make it tuesday. lord goring. but it is after seven, father, and my doctor says i must not have any serious conversation after seven. it makes me talk in my sleep. lord caversham. talk in your sleep, sir? what does that matter? you are not married. lord goring. no, father, i am not married. lord caversham. hum! that is what i have come to talk to you about, sir. you have got to get married, and at once. why, when i was your age, sir, i had been an inconsolable widower for three months, and was already paying my addresses to your admirable mother. damme, sir, it is your duty to get married. you can’t be always living for pleasure. every man of position is married nowadays. bachelors are not fashionable any more. they are a damaged lot. too much is known about them. you must get a wife, sir. look where your friend robert chiltern has got to by probity, hard work, and a sensible marriage with a good woman. why don’t you imitate him, sir? why don’t you take him for your model? lord goring. i think i shall, father. lord caversham. i wish you would, sir. then i should be happy. at present i make your mother’s life miserable on your account. you are heartless, sir, quite heartless. lord goring. i hope not, father. lord caversham. and it is high time for you to get married. you are thirty-four years of age, sir. lord goring. yes, father, but i only admit to thirty-two—thirty-one and a half when i have a really good buttonhole. this buttonhole is not . . . trivial enough. lord caversham. i tell you you are thirty-four, sir. and there is a draught in your room, besides, which makes your conduct worse. why did you tell me there was no draught, sir? i feel a draught, sir, i feel it distinctly. lord goring. so do i, father. it is a dreadful draught. i will come and see you to-morrow, father. we can talk over anything you like. let me help you on with your cloak, father. lord caversham. no, sir; i have called this evening for a definite purpose, and i am going to see it through at all costs to my health or yours. put down my cloak, sir. lord goring. certainly, father. but let us go into another room. [_rings bell_.] there is a dreadful draught here. [_enter_ phipps.] phipps, is there a good fire in the smoking-room? phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. come in there, father. your sneezes are quite heartrending. lord caversham. well, sir, i suppose i have a right to sneeze when i choose? lord goring. [_apologetically_.] quite so, father. i was merely expressing sympathy. lord caversham. oh, damn sympathy. there is a great deal too much of that sort of thing going on nowadays. lord goring. i quite agree with you, father. if there was less sympathy in the world there would be less trouble in the world. lord caversham. [_going towards the smoking-room_.] that is a paradox, sir. i hate paradoxes. lord goring. so do i, father. everybody one meets is a paradox nowadays. it is a great bore. it makes society so obvious. lord caversham. [_turning round_, _and looking at his son beneath his bushy eyebrows_.] do you always really understand what you say, sir? lord goring. [_after some hesitation_.] yes, father, if i listen attentively. lord caversham. [_indignantly_.] if you listen attentively! . . . conceited young puppy! [_goes off grumbling into the smoking-room_. phipps _enters_.] lord goring. phipps, there is a lady coming to see me this evening on particular business. show her into the drawing-room when she arrives. you understand? phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. it is a matter of the gravest importance, phipps. phipps. i understand, my lord. lord goring. no one else is to be admitted, under any circumstances. phipps. i understand, my lord. [_bell rings_.] lord goring. ah! that is probably the lady. i shall see her myself. [_just as he is going towards the door_ lord caversham _enters from the smoking-room_.] lord caversham. well, sir? am i to wait attendance on you? lord goring. [_considerably perplexed_.] in a moment, father. do excuse me. [lord caversham _goes back_.] well, remember my instructions, phipps—into that room. phipps. yes, my lord. [lord goring _goes into the smoking-room_. harold, _the footman shows_ mrs. cheveley _in_. _lamia-like_, _she is in green and silver_. _she has a cloak of black satin_, _lined with dead rose-leaf silk_.] harold. what name, madam? mrs. cheveley. [_to_ phipps, _who advances towards her_.] is lord goring not here? i was told he was at home? phipps. his lordship is engaged at present with lord caversham, madam. [_turns a cold_, _glassy eye on_ harold, _who at once retires_.] mrs. cheveley. [_to herself_.] how very filial! phipps. his lordship told me to ask you, madam, to be kind enough to wait in the drawing-room for him. his lordship will come to you there. mrs. cheveley. [_with a look of surprise_.] lord goring expects me? phipps. yes, madam. mrs. cheveley. are you quite sure? phipps. his lordship told me that if a lady called i was to ask her to wait in the drawing-room. [_goes to the door of the drawing-room and opens it_.] his lordship’s directions on the subject were very precise. mrs. cheveley. [_to herself_] how thoughtful of him! to expect the unexpected shows a thoroughly modern intellect. [_goes towards the drawing-room and looks in_.] ugh! how dreary a bachelor’s drawing-room always looks. i shall have to alter all this. [phipps _brings the lamp from the writing-table_.] no, i don’t care for that lamp. it is far too glaring. light some candles. phipps. [_replaces lamp_.] certainly, madam. mrs. cheveley. i hope the candles have very becoming shades. phipps. we have had no complaints about them, madam, as yet. [_passes into the drawing-room and begins to light the candles_.] mrs. cheveley. [_to herself_.] i wonder what woman he is waiting for to-night. it will be delightful to catch him. men always look so silly when they are caught. and they are always being caught. [_looks about room and approaches the writing-table_.] what a very interesting room! what a very interesting picture! wonder what his correspondence is like. [_takes up letters_.] oh, what a very uninteresting correspondence! bills and cards, debts and dowagers! who on earth writes to him on pink paper? how silly to write on pink paper! it looks like the beginning of a middle-class romance. romance should never begin with sentiment. it should begin with science and end with a settlement. [_puts letter down_, _then takes it up again_.] i know that handwriting. that is gertrude chiltern’s. i remember it perfectly. the ten commandments in every stroke of the pen, and the moral law all over the page. wonder what gertrude is writing to him about? something horrid about me, i suppose. how i detest that woman! [_reads it_.] ‘i trust you. i want you. i am coming to you. gertrude.’ ‘i trust you. i want you. i am coming to you.’ [_a look of triumph comes over her face_. _she is just about to steal the letter_, _when_ phipps _comes in_.] phipps. the candles in the drawing-room are lit, madam, as you directed. mrs. cheveley. thank you. [_rises hastily and slips the letter under a large silver-cased blotting-book that is lying on the table_.] phipps. i trust the shades will be to your liking, madam. they are the most becoming we have. they are the same as his lordship uses himself when he is dressing for dinner. mrs. cheveley. [_with a smile_.] then i am sure they will be perfectly right. phipps. [_gravely_.] thank you, madam. [mrs. cheveley _goes into the drawing-room_. phipps _closes the door and retires_. _the door is then slowly opened_, _and_ mrs. cheveley _comes out and creeps stealthily towards the writing-table_. _suddenly voices are heard from the smoking-room_. mrs. cheveley _grows pale_, _and stops_. _the voices grow louder_, _and she goes back into the drawing-room_, _biting her lip_.] [_enter_ lord goring _and_ lord caversham.] lord goring. [_expostulating_.] my dear father, if i am to get married, surely you will allow me to choose the time, place, and person? particularly the person. lord caversham. [_testily_.] that is a matter for me, sir. you would probably make a very poor choice. it is i who should be consulted, not you. there is property at stake. it is not a matter for affection. affection comes later on in married life. lord goring. yes. in married life affection comes when people thoroughly dislike each other, father, doesn’t it? [_puts on_ lord caversham’s _cloak for him_.] lord caversham. certainly, sir. i mean certainly not, air. you are talking very foolishly to-night. what i say is that marriage is a matter for common sense. lord goring. but women who have common sense are so curiously plain, father, aren’t they? of course i only speak from hearsay. lord caversham. no woman, plain or pretty, has any common sense at all, sir. common sense is the privilege of our sex. lord goring. quite so. and we men are so self-sacrificing that we never use it, do we, father? lord caversham. i use it, sir. i use nothing else. lord goring. so my mother tells me. lord caversham. it is the secret of your mother’s happiness. you are very heartless, sir, very heartless. lord goring. i hope not, father. [_goes out for a moment_. _then returns_, _looking rather put out_, _with_ sir robert chiltern.] sir robert chiltern. my dear arthur, what a piece of good luck meeting you on the doorstep! your servant had just told me you were not at home. how extraordinary! lord goring. the fact is, i am horribly busy to-night, robert, and i gave orders i was not at home to any one. even my father had a comparatively cold reception. he complained of a draught the whole time. sir robert chiltern. ah! you must be at home to me, arthur. you are my best friend. perhaps by to-morrow you will be my only friend. my wife has discovered everything. lord goring. ah! i guessed as much! sir robert chiltern. [_looking at him_.] really! how? lord goring. [_after some hesitation_.] oh, merely by something in the expression of your face as you came in. who told her? sir robert chiltern. mrs. cheveley herself. and the woman i love knows that i began my career with an act of low dishonesty, that i built up my life upon sands of shame—that i sold, like a common huckster, the secret that had been intrusted to me as a man of honour. i thank heaven poor lord radley died without knowing that i betrayed him. i would to god i had died before i had been so horribly tempted, or had fallen so low. [_burying his face in his hands_.] lord goring. [_after a pause_.] you have heard nothing from vienna yet, in answer to your wire? sir robert chiltern. [_looking up_.] yes; i got a telegram from the first secretary at eight o’clock to-night. lord goring. well? sir robert chiltern. nothing is absolutely known against her. on the contrary, she occupies a rather high position in society. it is a sort of open secret that baron arnheim left her the greater portion of his immense fortune. beyond that i can learn nothing. lord goring. she doesn’t turn out to be a spy, then? sir robert chiltern. oh! spies are of no use nowadays. their profession is over. the newspapers do their work instead. lord goring. and thunderingly well they do it. sir robert chiltern. arthur, i am parched with thirst. may i ring for something? some hock and seltzer? lord goring. certainly. let me. [_rings the bell_.] sir robert chiltern. thanks! i don’t know what to do, arthur, i don’t know what to do, and you are my only friend. but what a friend you are—the one friend i can trust. i can trust you absolutely, can’t i? [_enter_ phipps.] lord goring. my dear robert, of course. oh! [_to_ phipps.] bring some hock and seltzer. phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. and phipps! phipps. yes, my lord. lord goring. will you excuse me for a moment, robert? i want to give some directions to my servant. sir robert chiltern. certainly. lord goring. when that lady calls, tell her that i am not expected home this evening. tell her that i have been suddenly called out of town. you understand? phipps. the lady is in that room, my lord. you told me to show her into that room, my lord. lord goring. you did perfectly right. [_exit_ phipps.] what a mess i am in. no; i think i shall get through it. i’ll give her a lecture through the door. awkward thing to manage, though. sir robert chiltern. arthur, tell me what i should do. my life seems to have crumbled about me. i am a ship without a rudder in a night without a star. lord goring. robert, you love your wife, don’t you? sir robert chiltern. i love her more than anything in the world. i used to think ambition the great thing. it is not. love is the great thing in the world. there is nothing but love, and i love her. but i am defamed in her eyes. i am ignoble in her eyes. there is a wide gulf between us now. she has found me out, arthur, she has found me out. lord goring. has she never in her life done some folly—some indiscretion—that she should not forgive your sin? sir robert chiltern. my wife! never! she does not know what weakness or temptation is. i am of clay like other men. she stands apart as good women do—pitiless in her perfection—cold and stern and without mercy. but i love her, arthur. we are childless, and i have no one else to love, no one else to love me. perhaps if god had sent us children she might have been kinder to me. but god has given us a lonely house. and she has cut my heart in two. don’t let us talk of it. i was brutal to her this evening. but i suppose when sinners talk to saints they are brutal always. i said to her things that were hideously true, on my side, from my stand-point, from the standpoint of men. but don’t let us talk of that. lord goring. your wife will forgive you. perhaps at this moment she is forgiving you. she loves you, robert. why should she not forgive? sir robert chiltern. god grant it! god grant it! [_buries his face in his hands_.] but there is something more i have to tell you, arthur. [_enter_ phipps _with drinks_.] phipps. [_hands hock and seltzer to_ sir robert chiltern.] hock and seltzer, sir. sir robert chiltern. thank you. lord goring. is your carriage here, robert? sir robert chiltern. no; i walked from the club. lord goring. sir robert will take my cab, phipps. phipps. yes, my lord. [_exit_.] lord goring. robert, you don’t mind my sending you away? sir robert chiltern. arthur, you must let me stay for five minutes. i have made up my mind what i am going to do to-night in the house. the debate on the argentine canal is to begin at eleven. [_a chair falls in the drawing-room_.] what is that? lord goring. nothing. sir robert chiltern. i heard a chair fall in the next room. some one has been listening. lord goring. no, no; there is no one there. sir robert chiltern. there is some one. there are lights in the room, and the door is ajar. some one has been listening to every secret of my life. arthur, what does this mean? lord goring. robert, you are excited, unnerved. i tell you there is no one in that room. sit down, robert. sir robert chiltern. do you give me your word that there is no one there? lord goring. yes. sir robert chiltern. your word of honour? [_sits down_.] lord goring. yes. sir robert chiltern. [_rises_.] arthur, let me see for myself. lord goring. no, no. sir robert chiltern. if there is no one there why should i not look in that room? arthur, you must let me go into that room and satisfy myself. let me know that no eavesdropper has heard my life’s secret. arthur, you don’t realise what i am going through. lord goring. robert, this must stop. i have told you that there is no one in that room—that is enough. sir robert chiltern. [_rushes to the door of the room_.] it is not enough. i insist on going into this room. you have told me there is no one there, so what reason can you have for refusing me? lord goring. for god’s sake, don’t! there is some one there. some one whom you must not see. sir robert chiltern. ah, i thought so! lord goring. i forbid you to enter that room. sir robert chiltern. stand back. my life is at stake. and i don’t care who is there. i will know who it is to whom i have told my secret and my shame. [_enters room_.] lord goring. great heavens! his own wife! [sir robert chiltern _comes back_, _with a look of scorn and anger on his face_.] sir robert chiltern. what explanation have you to give me for the presence of that woman here? lord goring. robert, i swear to you on my honour that that lady is stainless and guiltless of all offence towards you. sir robert chiltern. she is a vile, an infamous thing! lord goring. don’t say that, robert! it was for your sake she came here. it was to try and save you she came here. she loves you and no one else. sir robert chiltern. you are mad. what have i to do with her intrigues with you? let her remain your mistress! you are well suited to each other. she, corrupt and shameful—you, false as a friend, treacherous as an enemy even— lord goring. it is not true, robert. before heaven, it is not true. in her presence and in yours i will explain all. sir robert chiltern. let me pass, sir. you have lied enough upon your word of honour. [sir robert chiltern _goes out_. lord goring _rushes to the door of the drawing-room_, _when_ mrs. cheveley _comes out_, _looking radiant and much amused_.] mrs. cheveley. [_with a mock curtsey_] good evening, lord goring! lord goring. mrs. cheveley! great heavens! . . . may i ask what you were doing in my drawing-room? mrs. cheveley. merely listening. i have a perfect passion for listening through keyholes. one always hears such wonderful things through them. lord goring. doesn’t that sound rather like tempting providence? mrs. cheveley. oh! surely providence can resist temptation by this time. [_makes a sign to him to take her cloak off_, _which he does_.] lord goring. i am glad you have called. i am going to give you some good advice. mrs. cheveley. oh! pray don’t. one should never give a woman anything that she can’t wear in the evening. lord goring. i see you are quite as wilful as you used to be. mrs. cheveley. far more! i have greatly improved. i have had more experience. lord goring. too much experience is a dangerous thing. pray have a cigarette. half the pretty women in london smoke cigarettes. personally i prefer the other half. mrs. cheveley. thanks. i never smoke. my dressmaker wouldn’t like it, and a woman’s first duty in life is to her dressmaker, isn’t it? what the second duty is, no one has as yet discovered. lord goring. you have come here to sell me robert chiltern’s letter, haven’t you? mrs. cheveley. to offer it to you on conditions. how did you guess that? lord goring. because you haven’t mentioned the subject. have you got it with you? mrs. cheveley. [_sitting down_.] oh, no! a well-made dress has no pockets. lord goring. what is your price for it? mrs. cheveley. how absurdly english you are! the english think that a cheque-book can solve every problem in life. why, my dear arthur, i have very much more money than you have, and quite as much as robert chiltern has got hold of. money is not what i want. lord goring. what do you want then, mrs. cheveley? mrs. cheveley. why don’t you call me laura? lord goring. i don’t like the name. mrs. cheveley. you used to adore it. lord goring. yes: that’s why. [mrs. cheveley _motions to him to sit down beside her_. _he smiles_, _and does so_.] mrs. cheveley. arthur, you loved me once. lord goring. yes. mrs. cheveley. and you asked me to be your wife. lord goring. that was the natural result of my loving you. mrs. cheveley. and you threw me over because you saw, or said you saw, poor old lord mortlake trying to have a violent flirtation with me in the conservatory at tenby. lord goring. i am under the impression that my lawyer settled that matter with you on certain terms . . . dictated by yourself. mrs. cheveley. at that time i was poor; you were rich. lord goring. quite so. that is why you pretended to love me. mrs. cheveley. [_shrugging her shoulders_.] poor old lord mortlake, who had only two topics of conversation, his gout and his wife! i never could quite make out which of the two he was talking about. he used the most horrible language about them both. well, you were silly, arthur. why, lord mortlake was never anything more to me than an amusement. one of those utterly tedious amusements one only finds at an english country house on an english country sunday. i don’t think any one at all morally responsible for what he or she does at an english country house. lord goring. yes. i know lots of people think that. mrs. cheveley. i loved you, arthur. lord goring. my dear mrs. cheveley, you have always been far too clever to know anything about love. mrs. cheveley. i did love you. and you loved me. you know you loved me; and love is a very wonderful thing. i suppose that when a man has once loved a woman, he will do anything for her, except continue to love her? [_puts her hand on his_.] lord goring. [_taking his hand away quietly_.] yes: except that. mrs. cheveley. [_after a pause_.] i am tired of living abroad. i want to come back to london. i want to have a charming house here. i want to have a salon. if one could only teach the english how to talk, and the irish how to listen, society here would be quite civilised. besides, i have arrived at the romantic stage. when i saw you last night at the chilterns’, i knew you were the only person i had ever cared for, if i ever have cared for anybody, arthur. and so, on the morning of the day you marry me, i will give you robert chiltern’s letter. that is my offer. i will give it to you now, if you promise to marry me. lord goring. now? mrs. cheveley. [_smiling_.] to-morrow. lord goring. are you really serious? mrs. cheveley. yes, quite serious. lord goring. i should make you a very bad husband. mrs. cheveley. i don’t mind bad husbands. i have had two. they amused me immensely. lord goring. you mean that you amused yourself immensely, don’t you? mrs. cheveley. what do you know about my married life? lord goring. nothing: but i can read it like a book. mrs. cheveley. what book? lord goring. [_rising_.] the book of numbers. mrs. cheveley. do you think it is quite charming of you to be so rude to a woman in your own house? lord goring. in the case of very fascinating women, sex is a challenge, not a defence. mrs. cheveley. i suppose that is meant for a compliment. my dear arthur, women are never disarmed by compliments. men always are. that is the difference between the two sexes. lord goring. women are never disarmed by anything, as far as i know them. mrs. cheveley. [_after a pause_.] then you are going to allow your greatest friend, robert chiltern, to be ruined, rather than marry some one who really has considerable attractions left. i thought you would have risen to some great height of self-sacrifice, arthur. i think you should. and the rest of your life you could spend in contemplating your own perfections. lord goring. oh! i do that as it is. and self-sacrifice is a thing that should be put down by law. it is so demoralising to the people for whom one sacrifices oneself. they always go to the bad. mrs. cheveley. as if anything could demoralise robert chiltern! you seem to forget that i know his real character. lord goring. what you know about him is not his real character. it was an act of folly done in his youth, dishonourable, i admit, shameful, i admit, unworthy of him, i admit, and therefore . . . not his true character. mrs. cheveley. how you men stand up for each other! lord goring. how you women war against each other! mrs. cheveley. [_bitterly_.] i only war against one woman, against gertrude chiltern. i hate her. i hate her now more than ever. lord goring. because you have brought a real tragedy into her life, i suppose. mrs. cheveley. [_with a sneer_.] oh, there is only one real tragedy in a woman’s life. the fact that her past is always her lover, and her future invariably her husband. lord goring. lady chiltern knows nothing of the kind of life to which you are alluding. mrs. cheveley. a woman whose size in gloves is seven and three-quarters never knows much about anything. you know gertrude has always worn seven and three-quarters? that is one of the reasons why there was never any moral sympathy between us. . . . well, arthur, i suppose this romantic interview may be regarded as at an end. you admit it was romantic, don’t you? for the privilege of being your wife i was ready to surrender a great prize, the climax of my diplomatic career. you decline. very well. if sir robert doesn’t uphold my argentine scheme, i expose him. voilà tout. lord goring. you mustn’t do that. it would be vile, horrible, infamous. mrs. cheveley. [_shrugging her shoulders_.] oh! don’t use big words. they mean so little. it is a commercial transaction. that is all. there is no good mixing up sentimentality in it. i offered to sell robert chiltern a certain thing. if he won’t pay me my price, he will have to pay the world a greater price. there is no more to be said. i must go. good-bye. won’t you shake hands? lord goring. with you? no. your transaction with robert chiltern may pass as a loathsome commercial transaction of a loathsome commercial age; but you seem to have forgotten that you came here to-night to talk of love, you whose lips desecrated the word love, you to whom the thing is a book closely sealed, went this afternoon to the house of one of the most noble and gentle women in the world to degrade her husband in her eyes, to try and kill her love for him, to put poison in her heart, and bitterness in her life, to break her idol, and, it may be, spoil her soul. that i cannot forgive you. that was horrible. for that there can be no forgiveness. mrs. cheveley. arthur, you are unjust to me. believe me, you are quite unjust to me. i didn’t go to taunt gertrude at all. i had no idea of doing anything of the kind when i entered. i called with lady markby simply to ask whether an ornament, a jewel, that i lost somewhere last night, had been found at the chilterns’. if you don’t believe me, you can ask lady markby. she will tell you it is true. the scene that occurred happened after lady markby had left, and was really forced on me by gertrude’s rudeness and sneers. i called, oh!—a little out of malice if you like—but really to ask if a diamond brooch of mine had been found. that was the origin of the whole thing. lord goring. a diamond snake-brooch with a ruby? mrs. cheveley. yes. how do you know? lord goring. because it is found. in point of fact, i found it myself, and stupidly forgot to tell the butler anything about it as i was leaving. [_goes over to the writing-table and pulls out the drawers_.] it is in this drawer. no, that one. this is the brooch, isn’t it? [_holds up the brooch_.] mrs. cheveley. yes. i am so glad to get it back. it was . . a present. lord goring. won’t you wear it? mrs. cheveley. certainly, if you pin it in. [lord goring _suddenly clasps it on her arm_.] why do you put it on as a bracelet? i never knew it could he worn as a bracelet. lord goring. really? mrs. cheveley. [_holding out her handsome arm_.] no; but it looks very well on me as a bracelet, doesn’t it? lord goring. yes; much better than when i saw it last. mrs. cheveley. when did you see it last? lord goring. [_calmly_.] oh, ten years ago, on lady berkshire, from whom you stole it. mrs. cheveley. [_starting_.] what do you mean? lord goring. i mean that you stole that ornament from my cousin, mary berkshire, to whom i gave it when she was married. suspicion fell on a wretched servant, who was sent away in disgrace. i recognised it last night. i determined to say nothing about it till i had found the thief. i have found the thief now, and i have heard her own confession. mrs. cheveley. [_tossing her head_.] it is not true. lord goring. you know it is true. why, thief is written across your face at this moment. mrs. cheveley. i will deny the whole affair from beginning to end. i will say that i have never seen this wretched thing, that it was never in my possession. [mrs. cheveley _tries to get the bracelet off her arm_, _but fails_. lord goring _looks on amused_. _her thin fingers tear at the jewel to no purpose_. _a curse breaks from her_.] lord goring. the drawback of stealing a thing, mrs. cheveley, is that one never knows how wonderful the thing that one steals is. you can’t get that bracelet off, unless you know where the spring is. and i see you don’t know where the spring is. it is rather difficult to find. mrs. cheveley. you brute! you coward! [_she tries again to unclasp the bracelet_, _but fails_.] lord goring. oh! don’t use big words. they mean so little. mrs. cheveley. [_again tears at the bracelet in a paroxysm of rage_, _with inarticulate sounds_. _then stops_, _and looks at_ lord goring.] what are you going to do? lord goring. i am going to ring for my servant. he is an admirable servant. always comes in the moment one rings for him. when he comes i will tell him to fetch the police. mrs. cheveley. [_trembling_.] the police? what for? lord goring. to-morrow the berkshires will prosecute you. that is what the police are for. mrs. cheveley. [_is now in an agony of physical terror_. _her face is distorted_. _her mouth awry_. _a mask has fallen from her_. _she it_, _for the moment_, _dreadful to look at_.] don’t do that. i will do anything you want. anything in the world you want. lord goring. give me robert chiltern’s letter. mrs. cheveley. stop! stop! let me have time to think. lord goring. give me robert chiltern’s letter. mrs. cheveley. i have not got it with me. i will give it to you to-morrow. lord goring. you know you are lying. give it to me at once. [mrs. cheveley _pulls the letter out_, _and hands it to him_. _she is horribly pale_.] this is it? mrs. cheveley. [_in a hoarse voice_.] yes. lord goring. [_takes the letter_, _examines it_, _sighs_, _and burns it with the lamp_.] for so well-dressed a woman, mrs. cheveley, you have moments of admirable common sense. i congratulate you. mrs. cheveley. [_catches sight of_ lady chiltern’s _letter_, _the cover of which is just showing from under the blotting-book_.] please get me a glass of water. lord goring. certainly. [_goes to the corner of the room and pours out a glass of water_. _while his back is turned_ mrs. cheveley _steals_ lady chiltern’s _letter_. _when_ lord goring _returns the glass she refuses it with a gesture_.] mrs. cheveley. thank you. will you help me on with my cloak? lord goring. with pleasure. [_puts her cloak on_.] mrs. cheveley. thanks. i am never going to try to harm robert chiltern again. lord goring. fortunately you have not the chance, mrs. cheveley. mrs. cheveley. well, if even i had the chance, i wouldn’t. on the contrary, i am going to render him a great service. lord goring. i am charmed to hear it. it is a reformation. mrs. cheveley. yes. i can’t bear so upright a gentleman, so honourable an english gentleman, being so shamefully deceived, and so— lord goring. well? mrs. cheveley. i find that somehow gertrude chiltern’s dying speech and confession has strayed into my pocket. lord goring. what do you mean? mrs. cheveley. [_with a bitter note of triumph in her voice_.] i mean that i am going to send robert chiltern the love-letter his wife wrote to you to-night. lord goring. love-letter? mrs. cheveley. [_laughing_.] ‘i want you. i trust you. i am coming to you. gertrude.’ [lord goring _rushes to the bureau and takes up the envelope_, _finds is empty_, _and turns round_.] lord goring. you wretched woman, must you always be thieving? give me back that letter. i’ll take it from you by force. you shall not leave my room till i have got it. [_he rushes towards her_, _but_ mrs. cheveley _at once puts her hand on the electric bell that is on the table_. _the bell sounds with shrill reverberations_, _and_ phipps _enters_.] mrs. cheveley. [_after a pause_.] lord goring merely rang that you should show me out. good-night, lord goring! [_goes out followed by_ phipps. _her face is illumined with evil triumph_. _there is joy in her eyes_. _youth seems to have come back to her_. _her last glance is like a swift arrow_. lord goring _bites his lip_, _and lights his a cigarette_.] act drops fourth act scene _same as act ii_. [lord goring _is standing by the fireplace with his hands in his pockets_. _he is looking rather bored_.] lord goring. [_pulls out his watch_, _inspects it_, _and rings the bell_.] it is a great nuisance. i can’t find any one in this house to talk to. and i am full of interesting information. i feel like the latest edition of something or other. [_enter servant_.] james. sir robert is still at the foreign office, my lord. lord goring. lady chiltern not down yet? james. her ladyship has not yet left her room. miss chiltern has just come in from riding. lord goring. [_to himself_.] ah! that is something. james. lord caversham has been waiting some time in the library for sir robert. i told him your lordship was here. lord goring. thank you! would you kindly tell him i’ve gone? james. [_bowing_.] i shall do so, my lord. [_exit servant_.] lord goring. really, i don’t want to meet my father three days running. it is a great deal too much excitement for any son. i hope to goodness he won’t come up. fathers should be neither seen nor heard. that is the only proper basis for family life. mothers are different. mothers are darlings. [_throws himself down into a chair_, _picks up a paper and begins to read it_.] [_enter_ lord caversham.] lord caversham. well, sir, what are you doing here? wasting your time as usual, i suppose? lord goring. [_throws down paper and rises_.] my dear father, when one pays a visit it is for the purpose of wasting other people’s time, not one’s own. lord caversham. have you been thinking over what i spoke to you about last night? lord goring. i have been thinking about nothing else. lord caversham. engaged to be married yet? lord goring. [_genially_.] not yet: but i hope to be before lunch-time. lord caversham. [_caustically_.] you can have till dinner-time if it would be of any convenience to you. lord goring. thanks awfully, but i think i’d sooner be engaged before lunch. lord caversham. humph! never know when you are serious or not. lord goring. neither do i, father. [_a pause_.] lord caversham. i suppose you have read _the times_ this morning? lord goring. [_airily_.] the times? certainly not. i only read _the morning post_. all that one should know about modern life is where the duchesses are; anything else is quite demoralising. lord caversham. do you mean to say you have not read _the times_ leading article on robert chiltern’s career? lord goring. good heavens! no. what does it say? lord caversham. what should it say, sir? everything complimentary, of course. chiltern’s speech last night on this argentine canal scheme was one of the finest pieces of oratory ever delivered in the house since canning. lord goring. ah! never heard of canning. never wanted to. and did . . . did chiltern uphold the scheme? lord caversham. uphold it, sir? how little you know him! why, he denounced it roundly, and the whole system of modern political finance. this speech is the turning-point in his career, as _the times_ points out. you should read this article, sir. [_opens_ the times.] ‘sir robert chiltern . . . most rising of our young statesmen . . . brilliant orator . . . unblemished career . . . well-known integrity of character . . . represents what is best in english public life . . . noble contrast to the lax morality so common among foreign politicians.’ they will never say that of you, sir. lord goring. i sincerely hope not, father. however, i am delighted at what you tell me about robert, thoroughly delighted. it shows he has got pluck. lord caversham. he has got more than pluck, sir, he has got genius. lord goring. ah! i prefer pluck. it is not so common, nowadays, as genius is. lord caversham. i wish you would go into parliament. lord goring. my dear father, only people who look dull ever get into the house of commons, and only people who are dull ever succeed there. lord caversham. why don’t you try to do something useful in life? lord goring. i am far too young. lord caversham. [_testily_.] i hate this affectation of youth, sir. it is a great deal too prevalent nowadays. lord goring. youth isn’t an affectation. youth is an art. lord caversham. why don’t you propose to that pretty miss chiltern? lord goring. i am of a very nervous disposition, especially in the morning. lord caversham. i don’t suppose there is the smallest chance of her accepting you. lord goring. i don’t know how the betting stands to-day. lord caversham. if she did accept you she would be the prettiest fool in england. lord goring. that is just what i should like to marry. a thoroughly sensible wife would reduce me to a condition of absolute idiocy in less than six months. lord caversham. you don’t deserve her, sir. lord goring. my dear father, if we men married the women we deserved, we should have a very bad time of it. [_enter_ mabel chiltern.] mabel chiltern. oh! . . . how do you do, lord caversham? i hope lady caversham is quite well? lord caversham. lady caversham is as usual, as usual. lord goring. good morning, miss mabel! mabel chiltern. [_taking no notice at all of_ lord goring, _and addressing herself exclusively to_ lord caversham.] and lady caversham’s bonnets . . . are they at all better? lord caversham. they have had a serious relapse, i am sorry to say. lord goring. good morning, miss mabel! mabel chiltern. [_to_ lord caversham.] i hope an operation will not be necessary. lord caversham. [_smiling at her pertness_.] if it is, we shall have to give lady caversham a narcotic. otherwise she would never consent to have a feather touched. lord goring. [_with increased emphasis_.] good morning, miss mabel! mabel chiltern. [_turning round with feigned surprise_.] oh, are you here? of course you understand that after your breaking your appointment i am never going to speak to you again. lord goring. oh, please don’t say such a thing. you are the one person in london i really like to have to listen to me. mabel chiltern. lord goring, i never believe a single word that either you or i say to each other. lord caversham. you are quite right, my dear, quite right . . . as far as he is concerned, i mean. mabel chiltern. do you think you could possibly make your son behave a little better occasionally? just as a change. lord caversham. i regret to say, miss chiltern, that i have no influence at all over my son. i wish i had. if i had, i know what i would make him do. mabel chiltern. i am afraid that he has one of those terribly weak natures that are not susceptible to influence. lord caversham. he is very heartless, very heartless. lord goring. it seems to me that i am a little in the way here. mabel chiltern. it is very good for you to be in the way, and to know what people say of you behind your back. lord goring. i don’t at all like knowing what people say of me behind my back. it makes me far too conceited. lord caversham. after that, my dear, i really must bid you good morning. mabel chiltern. oh! i hope you are not going to leave me all alone with lord goring? especially at such an early hour in the day. lord caversham. i am afraid i can’t take him with me to downing street. it is not the prime minster’s day for seeing the unemployed. [_shakes hands with_ mabel chiltern, _takes up his hat and stick_, _and goes out_, _with a parting glare of indignation at_ lord goring.] mabel chiltern. [_takes up roses and begins to arrange them in a bowl on the table_.] people who don’t keep their appointments in the park are horrid. lord goring. detestable. mabel chiltern. i am glad you admit it. but i wish you wouldn’t look so pleased about it. lord goring. i can’t help it. i always look pleased when i am with you. mabel chiltern. [_sadly_.] then i suppose it is my duty to remain with you? lord goring. of course it is. mabel chiltern. well, my duty is a thing i never do, on principle. it always depresses me. so i am afraid i must leave you. lord goring. please don’t, miss mabel. i have something very particular to say to you. mabel chiltern. [_rapturously_.] oh! is it a proposal? lord goring. [_somewhat taken aback_.] well, yes, it is—i am bound to say it is. mabel chiltern. [_with a sigh of pleasure_.] i am so glad. that makes the second to-day. lord goring. [_indignantly_.] the second to-day? what conceited ass has been impertinent enough to dare to propose to you before i had proposed to you? mabel chiltern. tommy trafford, of course. it is one of tommy’s days for proposing. he always proposes on tuesdays and thursdays, during the season. lord goring. you didn’t accept him, i hope? mabel chiltern. i make it a rule never to accept tommy. that is why he goes on proposing. of course, as you didn’t turn up this morning, i very nearly said yes. it would have been an excellent lesson both for him and for you if i had. it would have taught you both better manners. lord goring. oh! bother tommy trafford. tommy is a silly little ass. i love you. mabel chiltern. i know. and i think you might have mentioned it before. i am sure i have given you heaps of opportunities. lord goring. mabel, do be serious. please be serious. mabel chiltern. ah! that is the sort of thing a man always says to a girl before he has been married to her. he never says it afterwards. lord goring. [_taking hold of her hand_.] mabel, i have told you that i love you. can’t you love me a little in return? mabel chiltern. you silly arthur! if you knew anything about . . . anything, which you don’t, you would know that i adore you. every one in london knows it except you. it is a public scandal the way i adore you. i have been going about for the last six months telling the whole of society that i adore you. i wonder you consent to have anything to say to me. i have no character left at all. at least, i feel so happy that i am quite sure i have no character left at all. lord goring. [_catches her in his arms and kisses her_. _then there is a pause of bliss_.] dear! do you know i was awfully afraid of being refused! mabel chiltern. [_looking up at him_.] but you never have been refused yet by anybody, have you, arthur? i can’t imagine any one refusing you. lord goring. [_after kissing her again_.] of course i’m not nearly good enough for you, mabel. mabel chiltern. [_nestling close to him_.] i am so glad, darling. i was afraid you were. lord goring. [_after some hesitation_.] and i’m . . . i’m a little over thirty. mabel chiltern. dear, you look weeks younger than that. lord goring. [_enthusiastically_.] how sweet of you to say so! . . . and it is only fair to tell you frankly that i am fearfully extravagant. mabel chiltern. but so am i, arthur. so we’re sure to agree. and now i must go and see gertrude. lord goring. must you really? [_kisses her_.] mabel chiltern. yes. lord goring. then do tell her i want to talk to her particularly. i have been waiting here all the morning to see either her or robert. mabel chiltern. do you mean to say you didn’t come here expressly to propose to me? lord goring. [_triumphantly_.] no; that was a flash of genius. mabel chiltern. your first. lord goring. [_with determination_.] my last. mabel chiltern. i am delighted to hear it. now don’t stir. i’ll be back in five minutes. and don’t fall into any temptations while i am away. lord goring. dear mabel, while you are away, there are none. it makes me horribly dependent on you. [_enter_ lady chiltern.] lady chiltern. good morning, dear! how pretty you are looking! mabel chiltern. how pale you are looking, gertrude! it is most becoming! lady chiltern. good morning, lord goring! lord goring. [_bowing_.] good morning, lady chiltern! mabel chiltern. [_aside to_ lord goring.] i shall be in the conservatory under the second palm tree on the left. lord goring. second on the left? mabel chiltern. [_with a look of mock surprise_.] yes; the usual palm tree. [_blows a kiss to him_, _unobserved by_ lady chiltern, _and goes out_.] lord goring. lady chiltern, i have a certain amount of very good news to tell you. mrs. cheveley gave me up robert’s letter last night, and i burned it. robert is safe. lady chiltern. [_sinking on the sofa_.] safe! oh! i am so glad of that. what a good friend you are to him—to us! lord goring. there is only one person now that could be said to be in any danger. lady chiltern. who is that? lord goring. [_sitting down beside her_.] yourself. lady chiltern. i? in danger? what do you mean? lord goring. danger is too great a word. it is a word i should not have used. but i admit i have something to tell you that may distress you, that terribly distresses me. yesterday evening you wrote me a very beautiful, womanly letter, asking me for my help. you wrote to me as one of your oldest friends, one of your husband’s oldest friends. mrs. cheveley stole that letter from my rooms. lady chiltern. well, what use is it to her? why should she not have it? lord goring. [_rising_.] lady chiltern, i will be quite frank with you. mrs. cheveley puts a certain construction on that letter and proposes to send it to your husband. lady chiltern. but what construction could she put on it? . . . oh! not that! not that! if i in—in trouble, and wanting your help, trusting you, propose to come to you . . . that you may advise me . . . assist me . . . oh! are there women so horrible as that . . .? and she proposes to send it to my husband? tell me what happened. tell me all that happened. lord goring. mrs. cheveley was concealed in a room adjoining my library, without my knowledge. i thought that the person who was waiting in that room to see me was yourself. robert came in unexpectedly. a chair or something fell in the room. he forced his way in, and he discovered her. we had a terrible scene. i still thought it was you. he left me in anger. at the end of everything mrs. cheveley got possession of your letter—she stole it, when or how, i don’t know. lady chiltern. at what hour did this happen? lord goring. at half-past ten. and now i propose that we tell robert the whole thing at once. lady chiltern. [_looking at him with amazement that is almost terror_.] you want me to tell robert that the woman you expected was not mrs. cheveley, but myself? that it was i whom you thought was concealed in a room in your house, at half-past ten o’clock at night? you want me to tell him that? lord goring. i think it is better that he should know the exact truth. lady chiltern. [_rising_.] oh, i couldn’t, i couldn’t! lord goring. may i do it? lady chiltern. no. lord goring. [_gravely_.] you are wrong, lady chiltern. lady chiltern. no. the letter must be intercepted. that is all. but how can i do it? letters arrive for him every moment of the day. his secretaries open them and hand them to him. i dare not ask the servants to bring me his letters. it would be impossible. oh! why don’t you tell me what to do? lord goring. pray be calm, lady chiltern, and answer the questions i am going to put to you. you said his secretaries open his letters. lady chiltern. yes. lord goring. who is with him to-day? mr. trafford, isn’t it? lady chiltern. no. mr. montford, i think. lord goring. you can trust him? lady chiltern. [_with a gesture of despair_.] oh! how do i know? lord goring. he would do what you asked him, wouldn’t he? lady chiltern. i think so. lord goring. your letter was on pink paper. he could recognise it without reading it, couldn’t he? by the colour? lady chiltern. i suppose so. lord goring. is he in the house now? lady chiltern. yes. lord goring. then i will go and see him myself, and tell him that a certain letter, written on pink paper, is to be forwarded to robert to-day, and that at all costs it must not reach him. [_goes to the door_, _and opens it_.] oh! robert is coming upstairs with the letter in his hand. it has reached him already. lady chiltern. [_with a cry of pain_.] oh! you have saved his life; what have you done with mine? [_enter_ sir robert chiltern. _he has the letter in his hand_, _and is reading it_. _he comes towards his wife_, _not noticing_ lord goring’s _presence_.] sir robert chiltern. ‘i want you. i trust you. i am coming to you. gertrude.’ oh, my love! is this true? do you indeed trust me, and want me? if so, it was for me to come to you, not for you to write of coming to me. this letter of yours, gertrude, makes me feel that nothing that the world may do can hurt me now. you want me, gertrude? [lord goring, _unseen by_ sir robert chiltern, _makes an imploring sign to_ lady chiltern _to accept the situation and_ sir robert’s _error_.] lady chiltern. yes. sir robert chiltern. you trust me, gertrude? lady chiltern. yes. sir robert chiltern. ah! why did you not add you loved me? lady chiltern. [_taking his hand_.] because i loved you. [lord goring _passes into the conservatory_.] sir robert chiltern. [_kisses her_.] gertrude, you don’t know what i feel. when montford passed me your letter across the table—he had opened it by mistake, i suppose, without looking at the handwriting on the envelope—and i read it—oh! i did not care what disgrace or punishment was in store for me, i only thought you loved me still. lady chiltern. there is no disgrace in store for you, nor any public shame. mrs. cheveley has handed over to lord goring the document that was in her possession, and he has destroyed it. sir robert chiltern. are you sure of this, gertrude? lady chiltern. yes; lord goring has just told me. sir robert chiltern. then i am safe! oh! what a wonderful thing to be safe! for two days i have been in terror. i am safe now. how did arthur destroy my letter? tell me. lady chiltern. he burned it. sir robert chiltern. i wish i had seen that one sin of my youth burning to ashes. how many men there are in modern life who would like to see their past burning to white ashes before them! is arthur still here? lady chiltern. yes; he is in the conservatory. sir robert chiltern. i am so glad now i made that speech last night in the house, so glad. i made it thinking that public disgrace might be the result. but it has not been so. lady chiltern. public honour has been the result. sir robert chiltern. i think so. i fear so, almost. for although i am safe from detection, although every proof against me is destroyed, i suppose, gertrude . . . i suppose i should retire from public life? [_he looks anxiously at his wife_.] lady chiltern. [_eagerly_.] oh yes, robert, you should do that. it is your duty to do that. sir robert chiltern. it is much to surrender. lady chiltern. no; it will be much to gain. [sir robert chiltern _walks up and down the room with a troubled expression_. _then comes over to his wife_, _and puts his hand on her shoulder_.] sir robert chiltern. and you would be happy living somewhere alone with me, abroad perhaps, or in the country away from london, away from public life? you would have no regrets? lady chiltern. oh! none, robert. sir robert chiltern. [_sadly_.] and your ambition for me? you used to be ambitious for me. lady chiltern. oh, my ambition! i have none now, but that we two may love each other. it was your ambition that led you astray. let us not talk about ambition. [lord goring _returns from the conservatory_, _looking very pleased with himself_, _and with an entirely new buttonhole that some one has made for him_.] sir robert chiltern. [_going towards him_.] arthur, i have to thank you for what you have done for me. i don’t know how i can repay you. [_shakes hands with him_.] lord goring. my dear fellow, i’ll tell you at once. at the present moment, under the usual palm tree . . . i mean in the conservatory . . . [_enter_ mason.] mason. lord caversham. lord goring. that admirable father of mine really makes a habit of turning up at the wrong moment. it is very heartless of him, very heartless indeed. [_enter_ lord caversham. mason _goes out_.] lord caversham. good morning, lady chiltern! warmest congratulations to you, chiltern, on your brilliant speech last night. i have just left the prime minister, and you are to have the vacant seat in the cabinet. sir robert chiltern. [_with a look of joy and triumph_.] a seat in the cabinet? lord caversham. yes; here is the prime minister’s letter. [_hands letter_.] sir robert chiltern. [_takes letter and reads it_.] a seat in the cabinet! lord caversham. certainly, and you well deserve it too. you have got what we want so much in political life nowadays—high character, high moral tone, high principles. [_to_ lord goring.] everything that you have not got, sir, and never will have. lord goring. i don’t like principles, father. i prefer prejudices. [sir robert chiltern _is on the brink of accepting the prime minister’s offer_, _when he sees wife looking at him with her clear_, _candid eyes_. _he then realises that it is impossible_.] sir robert chiltern. i cannot accept this offer, lord caversham. i have made up my mind to decline it. lord caversham. decline it, sir! sir robert chiltern. my intention is to retire at once from public life. lord caversham. [_angrily_.] decline a seat in the cabinet, and retire from public life? never heard such damned nonsense in the whole course of my existence. i beg your pardon, lady chiltern. chiltern, i beg your pardon. [_to_ lord goring.] don’t grin like that, sir. lord goring. no, father. lord caversham. lady chiltern, you are a sensible woman, the most sensible woman in london, the most sensible woman i know. will you kindly prevent your husband from making such a . . . from taking such . . . will you kindly do that, lady chiltern? lady chiltern. i think my husband in right in his determination, lord caversham. i approve of it. lord caversham. you approve of it? good heavens! lady chiltern. [_taking her husband’s hand_.] i admire him for it. i admire him immensely for it. i have never admired him so much before. he is finer than even i thought him. [_to_ sir robert chiltern.] you will go and write your letter to the prime minister now, won’t you? don’t hesitate about it, robert. sir robert chiltern. [_with a touch of bitterness_.] i suppose i had better write it at once. such offers are not repeated. i will ask you to excuse me for a moment, lord caversham. lady chiltern. i may come with you, robert, may i not? sir robert chiltern. yes, gertrude. [lady chiltern _goes out with him_.] lord caversham. what is the matter with this family? something wrong here, eh? [_tapping his forehead_.] idiocy? hereditary, i suppose. both of them, too. wife as well as husband. very sad. very sad indeed! and they are not an old family. can’t understand it. lord goring. it is not idiocy, father, i assure you. lord caversham. what is it then, sir? lord goring. [_after some hesitation_.] well, it is what is called nowadays a high moral tone, father. that is all. lord caversham. hate these new-fangled names. same thing as we used to call idiocy fifty years ago. shan’t stay in this house any longer. lord goring. [_taking his arm_.] oh! just go in here for a moment, father. third palm tree to the left, the usual palm tree. lord caversham. what, sir? lord goring. i beg your pardon, father, i forgot. the conservatory, father, the conservatory—there is some one there i want you to talk to. lord caversham. what about, sir? lord goring. about me, father, lord caversham. [_grimly_.] not a subject on which much eloquence is possible. lord goring. no, father; but the lady is like me. she doesn’t care much for eloquence in others. she thinks it a little loud. [lord caversham _goes out into the conservatory_. lady chiltern _enters_.] lord goring. lady chiltern, why are you playing mrs. cheveley’s cards? lady chiltern. [_startled_.] i don’t understand you. lord goring. mrs. cheveley made an attempt to ruin your husband. either to drive him from public life, or to make him adopt a dishonourable position. from the latter tragedy you saved him. the former you are now thrusting on him. why should you do him the wrong mrs. cheveley tried to do and failed? lady chiltern. lord goring? lord goring. [_pulling himself together for a great effort_, _and showing the philosopher that underlies the dandy_.] lady chiltern, allow me. you wrote me a letter last night in which you said you trusted me and wanted my help. now is the moment when you really want my help, now is the time when you have got to trust me, to trust in my counsel and judgment. you love robert. do you want to kill his love for you? what sort of existence will he have if you rob him of the fruits of his ambition, if you take him from the splendour of a great political career, if you close the doors of public life against him, if you condemn him to sterile failure, he who was made for triumph and success? women are not meant to judge us, but to forgive us when we need forgiveness. pardon, not punishment, is their mission. why should you scourge him with rods for a sin done in his youth, before he knew you, before he knew himself? a man’s life is of more value than a woman’s. it has larger issues, wider scope, greater ambitions. a woman’s life revolves in curves of emotions. it is upon lines of intellect that a man’s life progresses. don’t make any terrible mistake, lady chiltern. a woman who can keep a man’s love, and love him in return, has done all the world wants of women, or should want of them. lady chiltern. [_troubled and hesitating_.] but it is my husband himself who wishes to retire from public life. he feels it is his duty. it was he who first said so. lord goring. rather than lose your love, robert would do anything, wreck his whole career, as he is on the brink of doing now. he is making for you a terrible sacrifice. take my advice, lady chiltern, and do not accept a sacrifice so great. if you do, you will live to repent it bitterly. we men and women are not made to accept such sacrifices from each other. we are not worthy of them. besides, robert has been punished enough. lady chiltern. we have both been punished. i set him up too high. lord goring. [_with deep feeling in his voice_.] do not for that reason set him down now too low. if he has fallen from his altar, do not thrust him into the mire. failure to robert would be the very mire of shame. power is his passion. he would lose everything, even his power to feel love. your husband’s life is at this moment in your hands, your husband’s love is in your hands. don’t mar both for him. [_enter_ sir robert chiltern.] sir robert chiltern. gertrude, here is the draft of my letter. shall i read it to you? lady chiltern. let me see it. [sir robert _hands her the letter_. _she reads it_, _and then_, _with a gesture of passion_, _tears it up_.] sir robert chiltern. what are you doing? lady chiltern. a man’s life is of more value than a woman’s. it has larger issues, wider scope, greater ambitions. our lives revolve in curves of emotions. it is upon lines of intellect that a man’s life progresses. i have just learnt this, and much else with it, from lord goring. and i will not spoil your life for you, nor see you spoil it as a sacrifice to me, a useless sacrifice! sir robert chiltern. gertrude! gertrude! lady chiltern. you can forget. men easily forget. and i forgive. that is how women help the world. i see that now. sir robert chiltern. [_deeply overcome by emotion_, _embraces her_.] my wife! my wife! [_to_ lord goring.] arthur, it seems that i am always to be in your debt. lord goring. oh dear no, robert. your debt is to lady chiltern, not to me! sir robert chiltern. i owe you much. and now tell me what you were going to ask me just now as lord caversham came in. lord goring. robert, you are your sister’s guardian, and i want your consent to my marriage with her. that is all. lady chiltern. oh, i am so glad! i am so glad! [_shakes hands with_ lord goring.] lord goring. thank you, lady chiltern. sir robert chiltern. [_with a troubled look_.] my sister to be your wife? lord goring. yes. sir robert chiltern. [_speaking with great firmness_.] arthur, i am very sorry, but the thing is quite out of the question. i have to think of mabel’s future happiness. and i don’t think her happiness would be safe in your hands. and i cannot have her sacrificed! lord goring. sacrificed! sir robert chiltern. yes, utterly sacrificed. loveless marriages are horrible. but there is one thing worse than an absolutely loveless marriage. a marriage in which there is love, but on one side only; faith, but on one side only; devotion, but on one side only, and in which of the two hearts one is sure to be broken. lord goring. but i love mabel. no other woman has any place in my life. lady chiltern. robert, if they love each other, why should they not be married? sir robert chiltern. arthur cannot bring mabel the love that she deserves. lord goring. what reason have you for saying that? sir robert chiltern. [_after a pause_.] do you really require me to tell you? lord goring. certainly i do. sir robert chiltern. as you choose. when i called on you yesterday evening i found mrs. cheveley concealed in your rooms. it was between ten and eleven o’clock at night. i do not wish to say anything more. your relations with mrs. cheveley have, as i said to you last night, nothing whatsoever to do with me. i know you were engaged to be married to her once. the fascination she exercised over you then seems to have returned. you spoke to me last night of her as of a woman pure and stainless, a woman whom you respected and honoured. that may be so. but i cannot give my sister’s life into your hands. it would be wrong of me. it would be unjust, infamously unjust to her. lord goring. i have nothing more to say. lady chiltern. robert, it was not mrs. cheveley whom lord goring expected last night. sir robert chiltern. not mrs. cheveley! who was it then? lord goring. lady chiltern! lady chiltern. it was your own wife. robert, yesterday afternoon lord goring told me that if ever i was in trouble i could come to him for help, as he was our oldest and best friend. later on, after that terrible scene in this room, i wrote to him telling him that i trusted him, that i had need of him, that i was coming to him for help and advice. [sir robert chiltern _takes the letter out of his pocket_.] yes, that letter. i didn’t go to lord goring’s, after all. i felt that it is from ourselves alone that help can come. pride made me think that. mrs. cheveley went. she stole my letter and sent it anonymously to you this morning, that you should think . . . oh! robert, i cannot tell you what she wished you to think. . . . sir robert chiltern. what! had i fallen so low in your eyes that you thought that even for a moment i could have doubted your goodness? gertrude, gertrude, you are to me the white image of all good things, and sin can never touch you. arthur, you can go to mabel, and you have my best wishes! oh! stop a moment. there is no name at the beginning of this letter. the brilliant mrs. cheveley does not seem to have noticed that. there should be a name. lady chiltern. let me write yours. it is you i trust and need. you and none else. lord goring. well, really, lady chiltern, i think i should have back my own letter. lady chiltern. [_smiling_.] no; you shall have mabel. [_takes the letter and writes her husband’s name on it_.] lord goring. well, i hope she hasn’t changed her mind. it’s nearly twenty minutes since i saw her last. [_enter_ mabel chiltern _and_ lord caversham.] mabel chiltern. lord goring, i think your father’s conversation much more improving than yours. i am only going to talk to lord caversham in the future, and always under the usual palm tree. lord goring. darling! [_kisses her_.] lord caversham. [_considerably taken aback_.] what does this mean, sir? you don’t mean to say that this charming, clever young lady has been so foolish as to accept you? lord goring. certainly, father! and chiltern’s been wise enough to accept the seat in the cabinet. lord caversham. i am very glad to hear that, chiltern . . . i congratulate you, sir. if the country doesn’t go to the dogs or the radicals, we shall have you prime minister, some day. [_enter_ mason.] mason. luncheon is on the table, my lady! [mason _goes out_.] mabel chiltern. you’ll stop to luncheon, lord caversham, won’t you? lord caversham. with pleasure, and i’ll drive you down to downing street afterwards, chiltern. you have a great future before you, a great future. wish i could say the same for you, sir. [_to_ lord goring.] but your career will have to be entirely domestic. lord goring. yes, father, i prefer it domestic. lord caversham. and if you don’t make this young lady an ideal husband, i’ll cut you off with a shilling. mabel chiltern. an ideal husband! oh, i don’t think i should like that. it sounds like something in the next world. lord caversham. what do you want him to be then, dear? mabel chiltern. he can be what he chooses. all i want is to be . . . to be . . . oh! a real wife to him. lord caversham. upon my word, there is a good deal of common sense in that, lady chiltern. [_they all go out except_ sir robert chiltern. _he sinks in a chair_, _wrapt in thought_. _after a little time_ lady chiltern _returns to look for him_.] lady chiltern. [_leaning over the back of the chair_.] aren’t you coming in, robert? sir robert chiltern. [_taking her hand_.] gertrude, is it love you feel for me, or is it pity merely? lady chiltern. [_kisses him_.] it is love, robert. love, and only love. for both of us a new life is beginning.

<|EndOfText|>

contents. page the happy prince <UNK> the nightingale and the rose <UNK> the selfish giant <UNK> the devoted friend <UNK> the remarkable rocket <UNK> the happy prince. [picture: woman opening window and seeing bird] high above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the happy prince. he was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his sword-hilt. he was very much admired indeed. “he is as beautiful as a weathercock,” remarked one of the town councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes; “only not quite so useful,” he added, fearing lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not. “why can’t you be like the happy prince?” asked a sensible mother of her little boy who was crying for the moon. “the happy prince never dreams of crying for anything.” “i am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy,” muttered a disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue. “he looks just like an angel,” said the charity children as they came out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white pinafores. “how do you know?” said the mathematical master, “you have never seen one.” “ah! but we have, in our dreams,” answered the children; and the mathematical master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not approve of children dreaming. one night there flew over the city a little swallow. his friends had gone away to egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was in love with the most beautiful reed. he had met her early in the spring as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her. “shall i love you?” said the swallow, who liked to come to the point at once, and the reed made him a low bow. so he flew round and round her, touching the water with his wings, and making silver ripples. this was his courtship, and it lasted all through the summer. “it is a ridiculous attachment,” twittered the other swallows; “she has no money, and far too many relations”; and indeed the river was quite full of reeds. then, when the autumn came they all flew away. after they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady-love. “she has no conversation,” he said, “and i am afraid that she is a coquette, for she is always flirting with the wind.” and certainly, whenever the wind blew, the reed made the most graceful curtseys. “i admit that she is domestic,” he continued, “but i love travelling, and my wife, consequently, should love travelling also.” “will you come away with me?” he said finally to her; but the reed shook her head, she was so attached to her home. “you have been trifling with me,” he cried. “i am off to the pyramids. good-bye!” and he flew away. all day long he flew, and at night-time he arrived at the city. “where shall i put up?” he said; “i hope the town has made preparations.” then he saw the statue on the tall column. “i will put up there,” he cried; “it is a fine position, with plenty of fresh air.” so he alighted just between the feet of the happy prince. “i have a golden bedroom,” he said softly to himself as he looked round, and he prepared to go to sleep; but just as he was putting his head under his wing a large drop of water fell on him. “what a curious thing!” he cried; “there is not a single cloud in the sky, the stars are quite clear and bright, and yet it is raining. the climate in the north of europe is really dreadful. the reed used to like the rain, but that was merely her selfishness.” then another drop fell. “what is the use of a statue if it cannot keep the rain off?” he said; “i must look for a good chimney-pot,” and he determined to fly away. but before he had opened his wings, a third drop fell, and he looked up, and saw—ah! what did he see? the eyes of the happy prince were filled with tears, and tears were running down his golden cheeks. his face was so beautiful in the moonlight that the little swallow was filled with pity. “who are you?” he said. “i am the happy prince.” “why are you weeping then?” asked the swallow; “you have quite drenched me.” “when i was alive and had a human heart,” answered the statue, “i did not know what tears were, for i lived in the palace of sans-souci, where sorrow is not allowed to enter. in the daytime i played with my companions in the garden, and in the evening i led the dance in the great hall. round the garden ran a very lofty wall, but i never cared to ask what lay beyond it, everything about me was so beautiful. my courtiers called me the happy prince, and happy indeed i was, if pleasure be happiness. so i lived, and so i died. and now that i am dead they have set me up here so high that i can see all the ugliness and all the misery of my city, and though my heart is made of lead yet i cannot chose but weep.” “what! is he not solid gold?” said the swallow to himself. he was too polite to make any personal remarks out loud. “far away,” continued the statue in a low musical voice, “far away in a little street there is a poor house. one of the windows is open, and through it i can see a woman seated at a table. her face is thin and worn, and she has coarse, red hands, all pricked by the needle, for she is a seamstress. she is embroidering passion-flowers on a satin gown for the loveliest of the queen’s maids-of-honour to wear at the next court-ball. in a bed in the corner of the room her little boy is lying ill. he has a fever, and is asking for oranges. his mother has nothing to give him but river water, so he is crying. swallow, swallow, little swallow, will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword-hilt? my feet are fastened to this pedestal and i cannot move.” “i am waited for in egypt,” said the swallow. “my friends are flying up and down the nile, and talking to the large lotus-flowers. soon they will go to sleep in the tomb of the great king. the king is there himself in his painted coffin. he is wrapped in yellow linen, and embalmed with spices. round his neck is a chain of pale green jade, and his hands are like withered leaves.” “swallow, swallow, little swallow,” said the prince, “will you not stay with me for one night, and be my messenger? the boy is so thirsty, and the mother so sad.” “i don’t think i like boys,” answered the swallow. “last summer, when i was staying on the river, there were two rude boys, the miller’s sons, who were always throwing stones at me. they never hit me, of course; we swallows fly far too well for that, and besides, i come of a family famous for its agility; but still, it was a mark of disrespect.” but the happy prince looked so sad that the little swallow was sorry. “it is very cold here,” he said; “but i will stay with you for one night, and be your messenger.” “thank you, little swallow,” said the prince. so the swallow picked out the great ruby from the prince’s sword, and flew away with it in his beak over the roofs of the town. he passed by the cathedral tower, where the white marble angels were sculptured. he passed by the palace and heard the sound of dancing. a beautiful girl came out on the balcony with her lover. “how wonderful the stars are,” he said to her, “and how wonderful is the power of love!” “i hope my dress will be ready in time for the state-ball,” she answered; “i have ordered passion-flowers to be embroidered on it; but the seamstresses are so lazy.” he passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of the ships. he passed over the ghetto, and saw the old jews bargaining with each other, and weighing out money in copper scales. at last he came to the poor house and looked in. the boy was tossing feverishly on his bed, and the mother had fallen asleep, she was so tired. in he hopped, and laid the great ruby on the table beside the woman’s thimble. then he flew gently round the bed, fanning the boy’s forehead with his wings. “how cool i feel,” said the boy, “i must be getting better”; and he sank into a delicious slumber. then the swallow flew back to the happy prince, and told him what he had done. “it is curious,” he remarked, “but i feel quite warm now, although it is so cold.” “that is because you have done a good action,” said the prince. and the little swallow began to think, and then he fell asleep. thinking always made him sleepy. when day broke he flew down to the river and had a bath. “what a remarkable phenomenon,” said the professor of ornithology as he was passing over the bridge. “a swallow in winter!” and he wrote a long letter about it to the local newspaper. every one quoted it, it was full of so many words that they could not understand. “to-night i go to egypt,” said the swallow, and he was in high spirits at the prospect. he visited all the public monuments, and sat a long time on top of the church steeple. wherever he went the sparrows chirruped, and said to each other, “what a distinguished stranger!” so he enjoyed himself very much. when the moon rose he flew back to the happy prince. “have you any commissions for egypt?” he cried; “i am just starting.” “swallow, swallow, little swallow,” said the prince, “will you not stay with me one night longer?” “i am waited for in egypt,” answered the swallow. “to-morrow my friends will fly up to the second cataract. the river-horse couches there among the bulrushes, and on a great granite throne sits the god memnon. all night long he watches the stars, and when the morning star shines he utters one cry of joy, and then he is silent. at noon the yellow lions come down to the water’s edge to drink. they have eyes like green beryls, and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract.” “swallow, swallow, little swallow,” said the prince, “far away across the city i see a young man in a garret. he is leaning over a desk covered with papers, and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of withered violets. his hair is brown and crisp, and his lips are red as a pomegranate, and he has large and dreamy eyes. he is trying to finish a play for the director of the theatre, but he is too cold to write any more. there is no fire in the grate, and hunger has made him faint.” “i will wait with you one night longer,” said the swallow, who really had a good heart. “shall i take him another ruby?” “alas! i have no ruby now,” said the prince; “my eyes are all that i have left. they are made of rare sapphires, which were brought out of india a thousand years ago. pluck out one of them and take it to him. he will sell it to the jeweller, and buy food and firewood, and finish his play.” “dear prince,” said the swallow, “i cannot do that”; and he began to weep. “swallow, swallow, little swallow,” said the prince, “do as i command you.” so the swallow plucked out the prince’s eye, and flew away to the student’s garret. it was easy enough to get in, as there was a hole in the roof. through this he darted, and came into the room. the young man had his head buried in his hands, so he did not hear the flutter of the bird’s wings, and when he looked up he found the beautiful sapphire lying on the withered violets. “i am beginning to be appreciated,” he cried; “this is from some great admirer. now i can finish my play,” and he looked quite happy. the next day the swallow flew down to the harbour. he sat on the mast of a large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the hold with ropes. “heave a-hoy!” they shouted as each chest came up. “i am going to egypt”! cried the swallow, but nobody minded, and when the moon rose he flew back to the happy prince. “i am come to bid you good-bye,” he cried. “swallow, swallow, little swallow,” said the prince, “will you not stay with me one night longer?” “it is winter,” answered the swallow, “and the chill snow will soon be here. in egypt the sun is warm on the green palm-trees, and the crocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them. my companions are building a nest in the temple of baalbec, and the pink and white doves are watching them, and cooing to each other. dear prince, i must leave you, but i will never forget you, and next spring i will bring you back two beautiful jewels in place of those you have given away. the ruby shall be redder than a red rose, and the sapphire shall be as blue as the great sea.” “in the square below,” said the happy prince, “there stands a little match-girl. she has let her matches fall in the gutter, and they are all spoiled. her father will beat her if she does not bring home some money, and she is crying. she has no shoes or stockings, and her little head is bare. pluck out my other eye, and give it to her, and her father will not beat her.” “i will stay with you one night longer,” said the swallow, “but i cannot pluck out your eye. you would be quite blind then.” “swallow, swallow, little swallow,” said the prince, “do as i command you.” so he plucked out the prince’s other eye, and darted down with it. he swooped past the match-girl, and slipped the jewel into the palm of her hand. “what a lovely bit of glass,” cried the little girl; and she ran home, laughing. then the swallow came back to the prince. “you are blind now,” he said, “so i will stay with you always.” “no, little swallow,” said the poor prince, “you must go away to egypt.” “i will stay with you always,” said the swallow, and he slept at the prince’s feet. all the next day he sat on the prince’s shoulder, and told him stories of what he had seen in strange lands. he told him of the red ibises, who stand in long rows on the banks of the nile, and catch gold-fish in their beaks; of the sphinx, who is as old as the world itself, and lives in the desert, and knows everything; of the merchants, who walk slowly by the side of their camels, and carry amber beads in their hands; of the king of the mountains of the moon, who is as black as ebony, and worships a large crystal; of the great green snake that sleeps in a palm-tree, and has twenty priests to feed it with honey-cakes; and of the pygmies who sail over a big lake on large flat leaves, and are always at war with the butterflies. “dear little swallow,” said the prince, “you tell me of marvellous things, but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and of women. there is no mystery so great as misery. fly over my city, little swallow, and tell me what you see there.” so the swallow flew over the great city, and saw the rich making merry in their beautiful houses, while the beggars were sitting at the gates. he flew into dark lanes, and saw the white faces of starving children looking out listlessly at the black streets. under the archway of a bridge two little boys were lying in one another’s arms to try and keep themselves warm. “how hungry we are!” they said. “you must not lie here,” shouted the watchman, and they wandered out into the rain. then he flew back and told the prince what he had seen. “i am covered with fine gold,” said the prince, “you must take it off, leaf by leaf, and give it to my poor; the living always think that gold can make them happy.” leaf after leaf of the fine gold the swallow picked off, till the happy prince looked quite dull and grey. leaf after leaf of the fine gold he brought to the poor, and the children’s faces grew rosier, and they laughed and played games in the street. “we have bread now!” they cried. then the snow came, and after the snow came the frost. the streets looked as if they were made of silver, they were so bright and glistening; long icicles like crystal daggers hung down from the eaves of the houses, everybody went about in furs, and the little boys wore scarlet caps and skated on the ice. the poor little swallow grew colder and colder, but he would not leave the prince, he loved him too well. he picked up crumbs outside the baker’s door when the baker was not looking and tried to keep himself warm by flapping his wings. but at last he knew that he was going to die. he had just strength to fly up to the prince’s shoulder once more. “good-bye, dear prince!” he murmured, “will you let me kiss your hand?” “i am glad that you are going to egypt at last, little swallow,” said the prince, “you have stayed too long here; but you must kiss me on the lips, for i love you.” “it is not to egypt that i am going,” said the swallow. “i am going to the house of death. death is the brother of sleep, is he not?” and he kissed the happy prince on the lips, and fell down dead at his feet. at that moment a curious crack sounded inside the statue, as if something had broken. the fact is that the leaden heart had snapped right in two. it certainly was a dreadfully hard frost. early the next morning the mayor was walking in the square below in company with the town councillors. as they passed the column he looked up at the statue: “dear me! how shabby the happy prince looks!” he said. “how shabby indeed!” cried the town councillors, who always agreed with the mayor; and they went up to look at it. “the ruby has fallen out of his sword, his eyes are gone, and he is golden no longer,” said the mayor in fact, “he is litttle better than a beggar!” “little better than a beggar,” said the town councillors. “and here is actually a dead bird at his feet!” continued the mayor. “we must really issue a proclamation that birds are not to be allowed to die here.” and the town clerk made a note of the suggestion. so they pulled down the statue of the happy prince. “as he is no longer beautiful he is no longer useful,” said the art professor at the university. then they melted the statue in a furnace, and the mayor held a meeting of the corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal. “we must have another statue, of course,” he said, “and it shall be a statue of myself.” “of myself,” said each of the town councillors, and they quarrelled. when i last heard of them they were quarrelling still. “what a strange thing!” said the overseer of the workmen at the foundry. “this broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace. we must throw it away.” so they threw it on a dust-heap where the dead swallow was also lying. “bring me the two most precious things in the city,” said god to one of his angels; and the angel brought him the leaden heart and the dead bird. “you have rightly chosen,” said god, “for in my garden of paradise this little bird shall sing for evermore, and in my city of gold the happy prince shall praise me.” [picture: decorative graphic of two birds] the nightingale and the rose. [picture: decorative graphic of young man lying on grass] “she said that she would dance with me if i brought her red roses,” cried the young student; “but in all my garden there is no red rose.” from her nest in the holm-oak tree the nightingale heard him, and she looked out through the leaves, and wondered. “no red rose in all my garden!” he cried, and his beautiful eyes filled with tears. “ah, on what little things does happiness depend! i have read all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets of philosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life made wretched.” “here at last is a true lover,” said the nightingale. “night after night have i sung of him, though i knew him not: night after night have i told his story to the stars, and now i see him. his hair is dark as the hyacinth-blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire; but passion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her seal upon his brow.” “the prince gives a ball to-morrow night,” murmured the young student, “and my love will be of the company. if i bring her a red rose she will dance with me till dawn. if i bring her a red rose, i shall hold her in my arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand will be clasped in mine. but there is no red rose in my garden, so i shall sit lonely, and she will pass me by. she will have no heed of me, and my heart will break.” “here indeed is the true lover,” said the nightingale. “what i sing of, he suffers—what is joy to me, to him is pain. surely love is a wonderful thing. it is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals. pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in the marketplace. it may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it be weighed out in the balance for gold.” “the musicians will sit in their gallery,” said the young student, “and play upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the sound of the harp and the violin. she will dance so lightly that her feet will not touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng round her. but with me she will not dance, for i have no red rose to give her”; and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face in his hands, and wept. “why is he weeping?” asked a little green lizard, as he ran past him with his tail in the air. “why, indeed?” said a butterfly, who was fluttering about after a sunbeam. “why, indeed?” whispered a daisy to his neighbour, in a soft, low voice. “he is weeping for a red rose,” said the nightingale. “for a red rose?” they cried; “how very ridiculous!” and the little lizard, who was something of a cynic, laughed outright. but the nightingale understood the secret of the student’s sorrow, and she sat silent in the oak-tree, and thought about the mystery of love. suddenly she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air. she passed through the grove like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed across the garden. in the centre of the grass-plot was standing a beautiful rose-tree, and when she saw it she flew over to it, and lit upon a spray. “give me a red rose,” she cried, “and i will sing you my sweetest song.” but the tree shook its head. “my roses are white,” it answered; “as white as the foam of the sea, and whiter than the snow upon the mountain. but go to my brother who grows round the old sun-dial, and perhaps he will give you what you want.” so the nightingale flew over to the rose-tree that was growing round the old sun-dial. “give me a red rose,” she cried, “and i will sing you my sweetest song.” but the tree shook its head. “my roses are yellow,” it answered; “as yellow as the hair of the mermaiden who sits upon an amber throne, and yellower than the daffodil that blooms in the meadow before the mower comes with his scythe. but go to my brother who grows beneath the student’s window, and perhaps he will give you what you want.” so the nightingale flew over to the rose-tree that was growing beneath the student’s window. “give me a red rose,” she cried, “and i will sing you my sweetest song.” but the tree shook its head. “my roses are red,” it answered, “as red as the feet of the dove, and redder than the great fans of coral that wave and wave in the ocean-cavern. but the winter has chilled my veins, and the frost has nipped my buds, and the storm has broken my branches, and i shall have no roses at all this year.” “one red rose is all i want,” cried the nightingale, “only one red rose! is there no way by which i can get it?” “there is a way,” answered the tree; “but it is so terrible that i dare not tell it to you.” “tell it to me,” said the nightingale, “i am not afraid.” “if you want a red rose,” said the tree, “you must build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with your own heart’s-blood. you must sing to me with your breast against a thorn. all night long you must sing to me, and the thorn must pierce your heart, and your life-blood must flow into my veins, and become mine.” “death is a great price to pay for a red rose,” cried the nightingale, “and life is very dear to all. it is pleasant to sit in the green wood, and to watch the sun in his chariot of gold, and the moon in her chariot of pearl. sweet is the scent of the hawthorn, and sweet are the bluebells that hide in the valley, and the heather that blows on the hill. yet love is better than life, and what is the heart of a bird compared to the heart of a man?” so she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air. she swept over the garden like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed through the grove. the young student was still lying on the grass, where she had left him, and the tears were not yet dry in his beautiful eyes. “be happy,” cried the nightingale, “be happy; you shall have your red rose. i will build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with my own heart’s-blood. all that i ask of you in return is that you will be a true lover, for love is wiser than philosophy, though she is wise, and mightier than power, though he is mighty. flame-coloured are his wings, and coloured like flame is his body. his lips are sweet as honey, and his breath is like frankincense.” the student looked up from the grass, and listened, but he could not understand what the nightingale was saying to him, for he only knew the things that are written down in books. but the oak-tree understood, and felt sad, for he was very fond of the little nightingale who had built her nest in his branches. “sing me one last song,” he whispered; “i shall feel very lonely when you are gone.” so the nightingale sang to the oak-tree, and her voice was like water bubbling from a silver jar. when she had finished her song the student got up, and pulled a note-book and a lead-pencil out of his pocket. “she has form,” he said to himself, as he walked away through the grove—“that cannot be denied to her; but has she got feeling? i am afraid not. in fact, she is like most artists; she is all style, without any sincerity. she would not sacrifice herself for others. she thinks merely of music, and everybody knows that the arts are selfish. still, it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice. what a pity it is that they do not mean anything, or do any practical good.” and he went into his room, and lay down on his little pallet-bed, and began to think of his love; and, after a time, he fell asleep. and when the moon shone in the heavens the nightingale flew to the rose-tree, and set her breast against the thorn. all night long she sang with her breast against the thorn, and the cold crystal moon leaned down and listened. all night long she sang, and the thorn went deeper and deeper into her breast, and her life-blood ebbed away from her. she sang first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl. and on the top-most spray of the rose-tree there blossomed a marvellous rose, petal following petal, as song followed song. pale was it, at first, as the mist that hangs over the river—pale as the feet of the morning, and silver as the wings of the dawn. as the shadow of a rose in a mirror of silver, as the shadow of a rose in a water-pool, so was the rose that blossomed on the topmost spray of the tree. but the tree cried to the nightingale to press closer against the thorn. “press closer, little nightingale,” cried the tree, “or the day will come before the rose is finished.” so the nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and louder and louder grew her song, for she sang of the birth of passion in the soul of a man and a maid. and a delicate flush of pink came into the leaves of the rose, like the flush in the face of the bridegroom when he kisses the lips of the bride. but the thorn had not yet reached her heart, so the rose’s heart remained white, for only a nightingale’s heart’s-blood can crimson the heart of a rose. and the tree cried to the nightingale to press closer against the thorn. “press closer, little nightingale,” cried the tree, “or the day will come before the rose is finished.” so the nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and the thorn touched her heart, and a fierce pang of pain shot through her. bitter, bitter was the pain, and wilder and wilder grew her song, for she sang of the love that is perfected by death, of the love that dies not in the tomb. and the marvellous rose became crimson, like the rose of the eastern sky. crimson was the girdle of petals, and crimson as a ruby was the heart. but the nightingale’s voice grew fainter, and her little wings began to beat, and a film came over her eyes. fainter and fainter grew her song, and she felt something choking her in her throat. then she gave one last burst of music. the white moon heard it, and she forgot the dawn, and lingered on in the sky. the red rose heard it, and it trembled all over with ecstasy, and opened its petals to the cold morning air. echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hills, and woke the sleeping shepherds from their dreams. it floated through the reeds of the river, and they carried its message to the sea. “look, look!” cried the tree, “the rose is finished now”; but the nightingale made no answer, for she was lying dead in the long grass, with the thorn in her heart. and at noon the student opened his window and looked out. “why, what a wonderful piece of luck!” he cried; “here is a red rose! i have never seen any rose like it in all my life. it is so beautiful that i am sure it has a long latin name”; and he leaned down and plucked it. then he put on his hat, and ran up to the professor’s house with the rose in his hand. the daughter of the professor was sitting in the doorway winding blue silk on a reel, and her little dog was lying at her feet. “you said that you would dance with me if i brought you a red rose,” cried the student. “here is the reddest rose in all the world. you will wear it to-night next your heart, and as we dance together it will tell you how i love you.” but the girl frowned. “i am afraid it will not go with my dress,” she answered; “and, besides, the chamberlain’s nephew has sent me some real jewels, and everybody knows that jewels cost far more than flowers.” “well, upon my word, you are very ungrateful,” said the student angrily; and he threw the rose into the street, where it fell into the gutter, and a cart-wheel went over it. “ungrateful!” said the girl. “i tell you what, you are very rude; and, after all, who are you? only a student. why, i don’t believe you have even got silver buckles to your shoes as the chamberlain’s nephew has”; and she got up from her chair and went into the house. “what a silly thing love is,” said the student as he walked away. “it is not half as useful as logic, for it does not prove anything, and it is always telling one of things that are not going to happen, and making one believe things that are not true. in fact, it is quite unpractical, and, as in this age to be practical is everything, i shall go back to philosophy and study metaphysics.” so he returned to his room and pulled out a great dusty book, and began to read. [picture: decorative graphic of nightingale and rose] the selfish giant. [picture: the selfish giant] every afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go and play in the giant’s garden. it was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass. here and there over the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit. the birds sat on the trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in order to listen to them. “how happy we are here!” they cried to each other. [picture: decorative graphic of children in garden] one day the giant came back. he had been to visit his friend the cornish ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years. after the seven years were over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation was limited, and he determined to return to his own castle. when he arrived he saw the children playing in the garden. “what are you doing here?” he cried in a very gruff voice, and the children ran away. “my own garden is my own garden,” said the giant; “any one can understand that, and i will allow nobody to play in it but myself.” so he built a high wall all round it, and put up a notice-board. trespassers will be prosecuted he was a very selfish giant. the poor children had now nowhere to play. they tried to play on the road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did not like it. they used to wander round the high wall when their lessons were over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside. “how happy we were there,” they said to each other. then the spring came, and all over the country there were little blossoms and little birds. only in the garden of the selfish giant it was still winter. the birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children, and the trees forgot to blossom. once a beautiful flower put its head out from the grass, but when it saw the notice-board it was so sorry for the children that it slipped back into the ground again, and went off to sleep. the only people who were pleased were the snow and the frost. “spring has forgotten this garden,” they cried, “so we will live here all the year round.” the snow covered up the grass with her great white cloak, and the frost painted all the trees silver. then they invited the north wind to stay with them, and he came. he was wrapped in furs, and he roared all day about the garden, and blew the chimney-pots down. “this is a delightful spot,” he said, “we must ask the hail on a visit.” so the hail came. every day for three hours he rattled on the roof of the castle till he broke most of the slates, and then he ran round and round the garden as fast as he could go. he was dressed in grey, and his breath was like ice. “i cannot understand why the spring is so late in coming,” said the selfish giant, as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold white garden; “i hope there will be a change in the weather.” but the spring never came, nor the summer. the autumn gave golden fruit to every garden, but to the giant’s garden she gave none. “he is too selfish,” she said. so it was always winter there, and the north wind, and the hail, and the frost, and the snow danced about through the trees. one morning the giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovely music. it sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the king’s musicians passing by. it was really only a little linnet singing outside his window, but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing in his garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in the world. then the hail stopped dancing over his head, and the north wind ceased roaring, and a delicious perfume came to him through the open casement. “i believe the spring has come at last,” said the giant; and he jumped out of bed and looked out. what did he see? he saw a most wonderful sight. through a little hole in the wall the children had crept in, and they were sitting in the branches of the trees. in every tree that he could see there was a little child. and the trees were so glad to have the children back again that they had covered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently above the children’s heads. the birds were flying about and twittering with delight, and the flowers were looking up through the green grass and laughing. it was a lovely scene, only in one corner it was still winter. it was the farthest corner of the garden, and in it was standing a little boy. he was so small that he could not reach up to the branches of the tree, and he was wandering all round it, crying bitterly. the poor tree was still quite covered with frost and snow, and the north wind was blowing and roaring above it. “climb up! little boy,” said the tree, and it bent its branches down as low as it could; but the boy was too tiny. and the giant’s heart melted as he looked out. “how selfish i have been!” he said; “now i know why the spring would not come here. i will put that poor little boy on the top of the tree, and then i will knock down the wall, and my garden shall be the children’s playground for ever and ever.” he was really very sorry for what he had done. so he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly, and went out into the garden. but when the children saw him they were so frightened that they all ran away, and the garden became winter again. only the little boy did not run, for his eyes were so full of tears that he did not see the giant coming. and the giant stole up behind him and took him gently in his hand, and put him up into the tree. and the tree broke at once into blossom, and the birds came and sang on it, and the little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the giant’s neck, and kissed him. and the other children, when they saw that the giant was not wicked any longer, came running back, and with them came the spring. “it is your garden now, little children,” said the giant, and he took a great axe and knocked down the wall. and when the people were going to market at twelve o’clock they found the giant playing with the children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen. all day long they played, and in the evening they came to the giant to bid him good-bye. “but where is your little companion?” he said: “the boy i put into the tree.” the giant loved him the best because he had kissed him. “we don’t know,” answered the children; “he has gone away.” “you must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow,” said the giant. but the children said that they did not know where he lived, and had never seen him before; and the giant felt very sad. every afternoon, when school was over, the children came and played with the giant. but the little boy whom the giant loved was never seen again. the giant was very kind to all the children, yet he longed for his first little friend, and often spoke of him. “how i would like to see him!” he used to say. years went over, and the giant grew very old and feeble. he could not play about any more, so he sat in a huge armchair, and watched the children at their games, and admired his garden. “i have many beautiful flowers,” he said; “but the children are the most beautiful flowers of all.” one winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing. he did not hate the winter now, for he knew that it was merely the spring asleep, and that the flowers were resting. suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked. it certainly was a marvellous sight. in the farthest corner of the garden was a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms. its branches were all golden, and silver fruit hung down from them, and underneath it stood the little boy he had loved. downstairs ran the giant in great joy, and out into the garden. he hastened across the grass, and came near to the child. and when he came quite close his face grew red with anger, and he said, “who hath dared to wound thee?” for on the palms of the child’s hands were the prints of two nails, and the prints of two nails were on the little feet. “who hath dared to wound thee?” cried the giant; “tell me, that i may take my big sword and slay him.” “nay!” answered the child; “but these are the wounds of love.” “who art thou?” said the giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and he knelt before the little child. and the child smiled on the giant, and said to him, “you let me play once in your garden, to-day you shall come with me to my garden, which is paradise.” and when the children ran in that afternoon, they found the giant lying dead under the tree, all covered with white blossoms. [picture: decorative graphic of wreath] the devoted friend. [picture: hans and the miller] one morning the old water-rat put his head out of his hole. he had bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a long bit of black india-rubber. the little ducks were swimming about in the pond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, who was pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand on their heads in the water. “you will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your heads,” she kept saying to them; and every now and then she showed them how it was done. but the little ducks paid no attention to her. they were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in society at all. “what disobedient children!” cried the old water-rat; “they really deserve to be drowned.” “nothing of the kind,” answered the duck, “every one must make a beginning, and parents cannot be too patient.” “ah! i know nothing about the feelings of parents,” said the water-rat; “i am not a family man. in fact, i have never been married, and i never intend to be. love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much higher. indeed, i know of nothing in the world that is either nobler or rarer than a devoted friendship.” “and what, pray, is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend?” asked a green linnet, who was sitting in a willow-tree hard by, and had overheard the conversation. “yes, that is just what i want to know,” said the duck; and she swam away to the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give her children a good example. “what a silly question!” cried the water-rat. “i should expect my devoted friend to be devoted to me, of course.” “and what would you do in return?” said the little bird, swinging upon a silver spray, and flapping his tiny wings. “i don’t understand you,” answered the water-rat. “let me tell you a story on the subject,” said the linnet. “is the story about me?” asked the water-rat. “if so, i will listen to it, for i am extremely fond of fiction.” “it is applicable to you,” answered the linnet; and he flew down, and alighting upon the bank, he told the story of the devoted friend. “once upon a time,” said the linnet, “there was an honest little fellow named hans.” “was he very distinguished?” asked the water-rat. “no,” answered the linnet, “i don’t think he was distinguished at all, except for his kind heart, and his funny round good-humoured face. he lived in a tiny cottage all by himself, and every day he worked in his garden. in all the country-side there was no garden so lovely as his. sweet-william grew there, and gilly-flowers, and shepherds’-purses, and fair-maids of france. there were damask roses, and yellow roses, lilac crocuses, and gold, purple violets and white. columbine and ladysmock, marjoram and wild basil, the cowslip and the flower-de-luce, the daffodil and the clove-pink bloomed or blossomed in their proper order as the months went by, one flower taking another flower’s place, so that there were always beautiful things to look at, and pleasant odours to smell. “little hans had a great many friends, but the most devoted friend of all was big hugh the miller. indeed, so devoted was the rich miller to little hans, that he would never go by his garden without leaning over the wall and plucking a large nosegay, or a handful of sweet herbs, or filling his pockets with plums and cherries if it was the fruit season. “‘real friends should have everything in common,’ the miller used to say, and little hans nodded and smiled, and felt very proud of having a friend with such noble ideas. “sometimes, indeed, the neighbours thought it strange that the rich miller never gave little hans anything in return, though he had a hundred sacks of flour stored away in his mill, and six milch cows, and a large flock of woolly sheep; but hans never troubled his head about these things, and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to listen to all the wonderful things the miller used to say about the unselfishness of true friendship. “so little hans worked away in his garden. during the spring, the summer, and the autumn he was very happy, but when the winter came, and he had no fruit or flowers to bring to the market, he suffered a good deal from cold and hunger, and often had to go to bed without any supper but a few dried pears or some hard nuts. in the winter, also, he was extremely lonely, as the miller never came to see him then. “‘there is no good in my going to see little hans as long as the snow lasts,’ the miller used to say to his wife, ‘for when people are in trouble they should be left alone, and not be bothered by visitors. that at least is my idea about friendship, and i am sure i am right. so i shall wait till the spring comes, and then i shall pay him a visit, and he will be able to give me a large basket of primroses and that will make him so happy.’ “‘you are certainly very thoughtful about others,’ answered the wife, as she sat in her comfortable armchair by the big pinewood fire; ‘very thoughtful indeed. it is quite a treat to hear you talk about friendship. i am sure the clergyman himself could not say such beautiful things as you do, though he does live in a three-storied house, and wear a gold ring on his little finger.’ “‘but could we not ask little hans up here?’ said the miller’s youngest son. ‘if poor hans is in trouble i will give him half my porridge, and show him my white rabbits.’ “‘what a silly boy you are!’ cried the miller; ‘i really don’t know what is the use of sending you to school. you seem not to learn anything. why, if little hans came up here, and saw our warm fire, and our good supper, and our great cask of red wine, he might get envious, and envy is a most terrible thing, and would spoil anybody’s nature. i certainly will not allow hans’ nature to be spoiled. i am his best friend, and i will always watch over him, and see that he is not led into any temptations. besides, if hans came here, he might ask me to let him have some flour on credit, and that i could not do. flour is one thing, and friendship is another, and they should not be confused. why, the words are spelt differently, and mean quite different things. everybody can see that.’ “‘how well you talk!’ said the miller’s wife, pouring herself out a large glass of warm ale; ‘really i feel quite drowsy. it is just like being in church.’ “‘lots of people act well,’ answered the miller; ‘but very few people talk well, which shows that talking is much the more difficult thing of the two, and much the finer thing also’; and he looked sternly across the table at his little son, who felt so ashamed of himself that he hung his head down, and grew quite scarlet, and began to cry into his tea. however, he was so young that you must excuse him.” “is that the end of the story?” asked the water-rat. “certainly not,” answered the linnet, “that is the beginning.” “then you are quite behind the age,” said the water-rat. “every good story-teller nowadays starts with the end, and then goes on to the beginning, and concludes with the middle. that is the new method. i heard all about it the other day from a critic who was walking round the pond with a young man. he spoke of the matter at great length, and i am sure he must have been right, for he had blue spectacles and a bald head, and whenever the young man made any remark, he always answered ‘pooh!’ but pray go on with your story. i like the miller immensely. i have all kinds of beautiful sentiments myself, so there is a great sympathy between us.” “well,” said the linnet, hopping now on one leg and now on the other, “as soon as the winter was over, and the primroses began to open their pale yellow stars, the miller said to his wife that he would go down and see little hans. “‘why, what a good heart you have!’ cried his wife; ‘you are always thinking of others. and mind you take the big basket with you for the flowers.’ “so the miller tied the sails of the windmill together with a strong iron chain, and went down the hill with the basket on his arm. “‘good morning, little hans,’ said the miller. “‘good morning,’ said hans, leaning on his spade, and smiling from ear to ear. “‘and how have you been all the winter?’ said the miller. “‘well, really,’ cried hans, ‘it is very good of you to ask, very good indeed. i am afraid i had rather a hard time of it, but now the spring has come, and i am quite happy, and all my flowers are doing well.’ “‘we often talked of you during the winter, hans,’ said the miller, ‘and wondered how you were getting on.’ “‘that was kind of you,’ said hans; ‘i was half afraid you had forgotten me.’ “‘hans, i am surprised at you,’ said the miller; ‘friendship never forgets. that is the wonderful thing about it, but i am afraid you don’t understand the poetry of life. how lovely your primroses are looking, by-the-bye!” “‘they are certainly very lovely,’ said hans, ‘and it is a most lucky thing for me that i have so many. i am going to bring them into the market and sell them to the burgomaster’s daughter, and buy back my wheelbarrow with the money.’ “‘buy back your wheelbarrow? you don’t mean to say you have sold it? what a very stupid thing to do!’ “‘well, the fact is,’ said hans, ‘that i was obliged to. you see the winter was a very bad time for me, and i really had no money at all to buy bread with. so i first sold the silver buttons off my sunday coat, and then i sold my silver chain, and then i sold my big pipe, and at last i sold my wheelbarrow. but i am going to buy them all back again now.’ “‘hans,’ said the miller, ‘i will give you my wheelbarrow. it is not in very good repair; indeed, one side is gone, and there is something wrong with the wheel-spokes; but in spite of that i will give it to you. i know it is very generous of me, and a great many people would think me extremely foolish for parting with it, but i am not like the rest of the world. i think that generosity is the essence of friendship, and, besides, i have got a new wheelbarrow for myself. yes, you may set your mind at ease, i will give you my wheelbarrow.’ “‘well, really, that is generous of you,’ said little hans, and his funny round face glowed all over with pleasure. ‘i can easily put it in repair, as i have a plank of wood in the house.’ “‘a plank of wood!’ said the miller; ‘why, that is just what i want for the roof of my barn. there is a very large hole in it, and the corn will all get damp if i don’t stop it up. how lucky you mentioned it! it is quite remarkable how one good action always breeds another. i have given you my wheelbarrow, and now you are going to give me your plank. of course, the wheelbarrow is worth far more than the plank, but true, friendship never notices things like that. pray get it at once, and i will set to work at my barn this very day.’ “‘certainly,’ cried little hans, and he ran into the shed and dragged the plank out. “‘it is not a very big plank,’ said the miller, looking at it, ‘and i am afraid that after i have mended my barn-roof there won’t be any left for you to mend the wheelbarrow with; but, of course, that is not my fault. and now, as i have given you my wheelbarrow, i am sure you would like to give me some flowers in return. here is the basket, and mind you fill it quite full.’ “‘quite full?’ said little hans, rather sorrowfully, for it was really a very big basket, and he knew that if he filled it he would have no flowers left for the market and he was very anxious to get his silver buttons back. “‘well, really,’ answered the miller, ‘as i have given you my wheelbarrow, i don’t think that it is much to ask you for a few flowers. i may be wrong, but i should have thought that friendship, true friendship, was quite free from selfishness of any kind.’ “‘my dear friend, my best friend,’ cried little hans, ‘you are welcome to all the flowers in my garden. i would much sooner have your good opinion than my silver buttons, any day’; and he ran and plucked all his pretty primroses, and filled the miller’s basket. “‘good-bye, little hans,’ said the miller, as he went up the hill with the plank on his shoulder, and the big basket in his hand. “‘good-bye,’ said little hans, and he began to dig away quite merrily, he was so pleased about the wheelbarrow. “the next day he was nailing up some honeysuckle against the porch, when he heard the miller’s voice calling to him from the road. so he jumped off the ladder, and ran down the garden, and looked over the wall. “there was the miller with a large sack of flour on his back. “‘dear little hans,’ said the miller, ‘would you mind carrying this sack of flour for me to market?’ “‘oh, i am so sorry,’ said hans, ‘but i am really very busy to-day. i have got all my creepers to nail up, and all my flowers to water, and all my grass to roll.’ “‘well, really,’ said the miller, ‘i think that, considering that i am going to give you my wheelbarrow, it is rather unfriendly of you to refuse.’ “‘oh, don’t say that,’ cried little hans, ‘i wouldn’t be unfriendly for the whole world’; and he ran in for his cap, and trudged off with the big sack on his shoulders. “it was a very hot day, and the road was terribly dusty, and before hans had reached the sixth milestone he was so tired that he had to sit down and rest. however, he went on bravely, and as last he reached the market. after he had waited there some time, he sold the sack of flour for a very good price, and then he returned home at once, for he was afraid that if he stopped too late he might meet some robbers on the way. “‘it has certainly been a hard day,’ said little hans to himself as he was going to bed, ‘but i am glad i did not refuse the miller, for he is my best friend, and, besides, he is going to give me his wheelbarrow.’ “early the next morning the miller came down to get the money for his sack of flour, but little hans was so tired that he was still in bed. “‘upon my word,’ said the miller, ‘you are very lazy. really, considering that i am going to give you my wheelbarrow, i think you might work harder. idleness is a great sin, and i certainly don’t like any of my friends to be idle or sluggish. you must not mind my speaking quite plainly to you. of course i should not dream of doing so if i were not your friend. but what is the good of friendship if one cannot say exactly what one means? anybody can say charming things and try to please and to flatter, but a true friend always says unpleasant things, and does not mind giving pain. indeed, if he is a really true friend he prefers it, for he knows that then he is doing good.’ “‘i am very sorry,’ said little hans, rubbing his eyes and pulling off his night-cap, ‘but i was so tired that i thought i would lie in bed for a little time, and listen to the birds singing. do you know that i always work better after hearing the birds sing?’ “‘well, i am glad of that,’ said the miller, clapping little hans on the back, ‘for i want you to come up to the mill as soon as you are dressed, and mend my barn-roof for me.’ “poor little hans was very anxious to go and work in his garden, for his flowers had not been watered for two days, but he did not like to refuse the miller, as he was such a good friend to him. “‘do you think it would be unfriendly of me if i said i was busy?’ he inquired in a shy and timid voice. “‘well, really,’ answered the miller, ‘i do not think it is much to ask of you, considering that i am going to give you my wheelbarrow; but of course if you refuse i will go and do it myself.’ “‘oh! on no account,’ cried little hans and he jumped out of bed, and dressed himself, and went up to the barn. “he worked there all day long, till sunset, and at sunset the miller came to see how he was getting on. “‘have you mended the hole in the roof yet, little hans?’ cried the miller in a cheery voice. “‘it is quite mended,’ answered little hans, coming down the ladder. “‘ah!’ said the miller, ‘there is no work so delightful as the work one does for others.’ “‘it is certainly a great privilege to hear you talk,’ answered little hans, sitting down, and wiping his forehead, ‘a very great privilege. but i am afraid i shall never have such beautiful ideas as you have.’ “‘oh! they will come to you,’ said the miller, ‘but you must take more pains. at present you have only the practice of friendship; some day you will have the theory also.’ “‘do you really think i shall?’ asked little hans. “‘i have no doubt of it,’ answered the miller, ‘but now that you have mended the roof, you had better go home and rest, for i want you to drive my sheep to the mountain to-morrow.’ “poor little hans was afraid to say anything to this, and early the next morning the miller brought his sheep round to the cottage, and hans started off with them to the mountain. it took him the whole day to get there and back; and when he returned he was so tired that he went off to sleep in his chair, and did not wake up till it was broad daylight. “‘what a delightful time i shall have in my garden,’ he said, and he went to work at once. “but somehow he was never able to look after his flowers at all, for his friend the miller was always coming round and sending him off on long errands, or getting him to help at the mill. little hans was very much distressed at times, as he was afraid his flowers would think he had forgotten them, but he consoled himself by the reflection that the miller was his best friend. ‘besides,’ he used to say, ‘he is going to give me his wheelbarrow, and that is an act of pure generosity.’ “so little hans worked away for the miller, and the miller said all kinds of beautiful things about friendship, which hans took down in a note-book, and used to read over at night, for he was a very good scholar. “now it happened that one evening little hans was sitting by his fireside when a loud rap came at the door. it was a very wild night, and the wind was blowing and roaring round the house so terribly that at first he thought it was merely the storm. but a second rap came, and then a third, louder than any of the others. “‘it is some poor traveller,’ said little hans to himself, and he ran to the door. “there stood the miller with a lantern in one hand and a big stick in the other. “‘dear little hans,’ cried the miller, ‘i am in great trouble. my little boy has fallen off a ladder and hurt himself, and i am going for the doctor. but he lives so far away, and it is such a bad night, that it has just occurred to me that it would be much better if you went instead of me. you know i am going to give you my wheelbarrow, and so, it is only fair that you should do something for me in return.’ “‘certainly,’ cried little hans, ‘i take it quite as a compliment your coming to me, and i will start off at once. but you must lend me your lantern, as the night is so dark that i am afraid i might fall into the ditch.’ “‘i am very sorry,’ answered the miller, ‘but it is my new lantern, and it would be a great loss to me if anything happened to it.’ “‘well, never mind, i will do without it,’ cried little hans, and he took down his great fur coat, and his warm scarlet cap, and tied a muffler round his throat, and started off. “what a dreadful storm it was! the night was so black that little hans could hardly see, and the wind was so strong that he could scarcely stand. however, he was very courageous, and after he had been walking about three hours, he arrived at the doctor’s house, and knocked at the door. “‘who is there?’ cried the doctor, putting his head out of his bedroom window. “‘little hans, doctor.’ “’what do you want, little hans?’ “‘the miller’s son has fallen from a ladder, and has hurt himself, and the miller wants you to come at once.’ “‘all right!’ said the doctor; and he ordered his horse, and his big boots, and his lantern, and came downstairs, and rode off in the direction of the miller’s house, little hans trudging behind him. “but the storm grew worse and worse, and the rain fell in torrents, and little hans could not see where he was going, or keep up with the horse. at last he lost his way, and wandered off on the moor, which was a very dangerous place, as it was full of deep holes, and there poor little hans was drowned. his body was found the next day by some goatherds, floating in a great pool of water, and was brought back by them to the cottage. “everybody went to little hans’ funeral, as he was so popular, and the miller was the chief mourner. “‘as i was his best friend,’ said the miller, ‘it is only fair that i should have the best place’; so he walked at the head of the procession in a long black cloak, and every now and then he wiped his eyes with a big pocket-handkerchief. “‘little hans is certainly a great loss to every one,’ said the blacksmith, when the funeral was over, and they were all seated comfortably in the inn, drinking spiced wine and eating sweet cakes. “‘a great loss to me at any rate,’ answered the miller; ‘why, i had as good as given him my wheelbarrow, and now i really don’t know what to do with it. it is very much in my way at home, and it is in such bad repair that i could not get anything for it if i sold it. i will certainly take care not to give away anything again. one always suffers for being generous.’” “well?” said the water-rat, after a long pause. “well, that is the end,” said the linnet. “but what became of the miller?” asked the water-rat. “oh! i really don’t know,” replied the linnet; “and i am sure that i don’t care.” “it is quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature,” said the water-rat. “i am afraid you don’t quite see the moral of the story,” remarked the linnet. “the what?” screamed the water-rat. “the moral.” “do you mean to say that the story has a moral?” “certainly,” said the linnet. “well, really,” said the water-rat, in a very angry manner, “i think you should have told me that before you began. if you had done so, i certainly would not have listened to you; in fact, i should have said ‘pooh,’ like the critic. however, i can say it now”; so he shouted out “pooh” at the top of his voice, gave a whisk with his tail, and went back into his hole. “and how do you like the water-rat?” asked the duck, who came paddling up some minutes afterwards. “he has a great many good points, but for my own part i have a mother’s feelings, and i can never look at a confirmed bachelor without the tears coming into my eyes.” “i am rather afraid that i have annoyed him,” answered the linnet. “the fact is, that i told him a story with a moral.” “ah! that is always a very dangerous thing to do,” said the duck. and i quite agree with her. [picture: decorative graphic of windmill and overturned barrow] the remarkable rocket. [picture: the remarkable rocket] the king’s son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings. he had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived. she was a russian princess, and had driven all the way from finland in a sledge drawn by six reindeer. the sledge was shaped like a great golden swan, and between the swan’s wings lay the little princess herself. her long ermine-cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tiny cap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the snow palace in which she had always lived. so pale was she that as she drove through the streets all the people wondered. “she is like a white rose!” they cried, and they threw down flowers on her from the balconies. [picture: decorative graphic of young man kissing the princess’ hand] at the gate of the castle the prince was waiting to receive her. he had dreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold. when he saw her he sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand. “your picture was beautiful,” he murmured, “but you are more beautiful than your picture”; and the little princess blushed. “she was like a white rose before,” said a young page to his neighbour, “but she is like a red rose now”; and the whole court was delighted. for the next three days everybody went about saying, “white rose, red rose, red rose, white rose”; and the king gave orders that the page’s salary was to be doubled. as he received no salary at all this was not of much use to him, but it was considered a great honour, and was duly published in the court gazette. when the three days were over the marriage was celebrated. it was a magnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls. then there was a state banquet, which lasted for five hours. the prince and princess sat at the top of the great hall and drank out of a cup of clear crystal. only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lips touched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy. “it’s quite clear that they love each other,” said the little page, “as clear as crystal!” and the king doubled his salary a second time. “what an honour!” cried all the courtiers. after the banquet there was to be a ball. the bride and bridegroom were to dance the rose-dance together, and the king had promised to play the flute. he played very badly, but no one had ever dared to tell him so, because he was the king. indeed, he knew only two airs, and was never quite certain which one he was playing; but it made no matter, for, whatever he did, everybody cried out, “charming! charming!” the last item on the programme was a grand display of fireworks, to be let off exactly at midnight. the little princess had never seen a firework in her life, so the king had given orders that the royal pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage. “what are fireworks like?” she had asked the prince, one morning, as she was walking on the terrace. “they are like the aurora borealis,” said the king, who always answered questions that were addressed to other people, “only much more natural. i prefer them to stars myself, as you always know when they are going to appear, and they are as delightful as my own flute-playing. you must certainly see them.” so at the end of the king’s garden a great stand had been set up, and as soon as the royal pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place, the fireworks began to talk to each other. “the world is certainly very beautiful,” cried a little squib. “just look at those yellow tulips. why! if they were real crackers they could not be lovelier. i am very glad i have travelled. travel improves the mind wonderfully, and does away with all one’s prejudices.” “the king’s garden is not the world, you foolish squib,” said a big roman candle; “the world is an enormous place, and it would take you three days to see it thoroughly.” “any place you love is the world to you,” exclaimed a pensive catherine wheel, who had been attached to an old deal box in early life, and prided herself on her broken heart; “but love is not fashionable any more, the poets have killed it. they wrote so much about it that nobody believed them, and i am not surprised. true love suffers, and is silent. i remember myself once—but it is no matter now. romance is a thing of the past.” “nonsense!” said the roman candle, “romance never dies. it is like the moon, and lives for ever. the bride and bridegroom, for instance, love each other very dearly. i heard all about them this morning from a brown-paper cartridge, who happened to be staying in the same drawer as myself, and knew the latest court news.” but the catherine wheel shook her head. “romance is dead, romance is dead, romance is dead,” she murmured. she was one of those people who think that, if you say the same thing over and over a great many times, it becomes true in the end. suddenly, a sharp, dry cough was heard, and they all looked round. it came from a tall, supercilious-looking rocket, who was tied to the end of a long stick. he always coughed before he made any observation, so as to attract attention. “ahem! ahem!” he said, and everybody listened except the poor catherine wheel, who was still shaking her head, and murmuring, “romance is dead.” “order! order!” cried out a cracker. he was something of a politician, and had always taken a prominent part in the local elections, so he knew the proper parliamentary expressions to use. “quite dead,” whispered the catherine wheel, and she went off to sleep. as soon as there was perfect silence, the rocket coughed a third time and began. he spoke with a very slow, distinct voice, as if he was dictating his memoirs, and always looked over the shoulder of the person to whom he was talking. in fact, he had a most distinguished manner. “how fortunate it is for the king’s son,” he remarked, “that he is to be married on the very day on which i am to be let off. really, if it had been arranged beforehand, it could not have turned out better for him; but, princes are always lucky.” “dear me!” said the little squib, “i thought it was quite the other way, and that we were to be let off in the prince’s honour.” “it may be so with you,” he answered; “indeed, i have no doubt that it is, but with me it is different. i am a very remarkable rocket, and come of remarkable parents. my mother was the most celebrated catherine wheel of her day, and was renowned for her graceful dancing. when she made her great public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she went out, and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pink stars. she was three feet and a half in diameter, and made of the very best gunpowder. my father was a rocket like myself, and of french extraction. he flew so high that the people were afraid that he would never come down again. he did, though, for he was of a kindly disposition, and he made a most brilliant descent in a shower of golden rain. the newspapers wrote about his performance in very flattering terms. indeed, the court gazette called him a triumph of pylotechnic art.” “pyrotechnic, pyrotechnic, you mean,” said a bengal light; “i know it is pyrotechnic, for i saw it written on my own canister.” “well, i said pylotechnic,” answered the rocket, in a severe tone of voice, and the bengal light felt so crushed that he began at once to bully the little squibs, in order to show that he was still a person of some importance. “i was saying,” continued the rocket, “i was saying—what was i saying?” “you were talking about yourself,” replied the roman candle. “of course; i knew i was discussing some interesting subject when i was so rudely interrupted. i hate rudeness and bad manners of every kind, for i am extremely sensitive. no one in the whole world is so sensitive as i am, i am quite sure of that.” “what is a sensitive person?” said the cracker to the roman candle. “a person who, because he has corns himself, always treads on other people’s toes,” answered the roman candle in a low whisper; and the cracker nearly exploded with laughter. “pray, what are you laughing at?” inquired the rocket; “i am not laughing.” “i am laughing because i am happy,” replied the cracker. “that is a very selfish reason,” said the rocket angrily. “what right have you to be happy? you should be thinking about others. in fact, you should be thinking about me. i am always thinking about myself, and i expect everybody else to do the same. that is what is called sympathy. it is a beautiful virtue, and i possess it in a high degree. suppose, for instance, anything happened to me to-night, what a misfortune that would be for every one! the prince and princess would never be happy again, their whole married life would be spoiled; and as for the king, i know he would not get over it. really, when i begin to reflect on the importance of my position, i am almost moved to tears.” “if you want to give pleasure to others,” cried the roman candle, “you had better keep yourself dry.” “certainly,” exclaimed the bengal light, who was now in better spirits; “that is only common sense.” “common sense, indeed!” said the rocket indignantly; “you forget that i am very uncommon, and very remarkable. why, anybody can have common sense, provided that they have no imagination. but i have imagination, for i never think of things as they really are; i always think of them as being quite different. as for keeping myself dry, there is evidently no one here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature. fortunately for myself, i don’t care. the only thing that sustains one through life is the consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else, and this is a feeling that i have always cultivated. but none of you have any hearts. here you are laughing and making merry just as if the prince and princess had not just been married.” “well, really,” exclaimed a small fire-balloon, “why not? it is a most joyful occasion, and when i soar up into the air i intend to tell the stars all about it. you will see them twinkle when i talk to them about the pretty bride.” “ah! what a trivial view of life!” said the rocket; “but it is only what i expected. there is nothing in you; you are hollow and empty. why, perhaps the prince and princess may go to live in a country where there is a deep river, and perhaps they may have one only son, a little fair-haired boy with violet eyes like the prince himself; and perhaps some day he may go out to walk with his nurse; and perhaps the nurse may go to sleep under a great elder-tree; and perhaps the little boy may fall into the deep river and be drowned. what a terrible misfortune! poor people, to lose their only son! it is really too dreadful! i shall never get over it.” “but they have not lost their only son,” said the roman candle; “no misfortune has happened to them at all.” “i never said that they had,” replied the rocket; “i said that they might. if they had lost their only son there would be no use in saying anything more about the matter. i hate people who cry over spilt milk. but when i think that they might lose their only son, i certainly am very much affected.” “you certainly are!” cried the bengal light. “in fact, you are the most affected person i ever met.” “you are the rudest person i ever met,” said the rocket, “and you cannot understand my friendship for the prince.” “why, you don’t even know him,” growled the roman candle. “i never said i knew him,” answered the rocket. “i dare say that if i knew him i should not be his friend at all. it is a very dangerous thing to know one’s friends.” “you had really better keep yourself dry,” said the fire-balloon. “that is the important thing.” “very important for you, i have no doubt,” answered the rocket, “but i shall weep if i choose”; and he actually burst into real tears, which flowed down his stick like rain-drops, and nearly drowned two little beetles, who were just thinking of setting up house together, and were looking for a nice dry spot to live in. “he must have a truly romantic nature,” said the catherine wheel, “for he weeps when there is nothing at all to weep about”; and she heaved a deep sigh, and thought about the deal box. but the roman candle and the bengal light were quite indignant, and kept saying, “humbug! humbug!” at the top of their voices. they were extremely practical, and whenever they objected to anything they called it humbug. then the moon rose like a wonderful silver shield; and the stars began to shine, and a sound of music came from the palace. the prince and princess were leading the dance. they danced so beautifully that the tall white lilies peeped in at the window and watched them, and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time. then ten o’clock struck, and then eleven, and then twelve, and at the last stroke of midnight every one came out on the terrace, and the king sent for the royal pyrotechnist. “let the fireworks begin,” said the king; and the royal pyrotechnist made a low bow, and marched down to the end of the garden. he had six attendants with him, each of whom carried a lighted torch at the end of a long pole. it was certainly a magnificent display. whizz! whizz! went the catherine wheel, as she spun round and round. boom! boom! went the roman candle. then the squibs danced all over the place, and the bengal lights made everything look scarlet. “good-bye,” cried the fire-balloon, as he soared away, dropping tiny blue sparks. bang! bang! answered the crackers, who were enjoying themselves immensely. every one was a great success except the remarkable rocket. he was so damp with crying that he could not go off at all. the best thing in him was the gunpowder, and that was so wet with tears that it was of no use. all his poor relations, to whom he would never speak, except with a sneer, shot up into the sky like wonderful golden flowers with blossoms of fire. huzza! huzza! cried the court; and the little princess laughed with pleasure. “i suppose they are reserving me for some grand occasion,” said the rocket; “no doubt that is what it means,” and he looked more supercilious than ever. the next day the workmen came to put everything tidy. “this is evidently a deputation,” said the rocket; “i will receive them with becoming dignity” so he put his nose in the air, and began to frown severely as if he were thinking about some very important subject. but they took no notice of him at all till they were just going away. then one of them caught sight of him. “hallo!” he cried, “what a bad rocket!” and he threw him over the wall into the ditch. “bad rocket? bad rocket?” he said, as he whirled through the air; “impossible! grand rocket, that is what the man said. bad and grand sound very much the same, indeed they often are the same”; and he fell into the mud. “it is not comfortable here,” he remarked, “but no doubt it is some fashionable watering-place, and they have sent me away to recruit my health. my nerves are certainly very much shattered, and i require rest.” then a little frog, with bright jewelled eyes, and a green mottled coat, swam up to him. “a new arrival, i see!” said the frog. “well, after all there is nothing like mud. give me rainy weather and a ditch, and i am quite happy. do you think it will be a wet afternoon? i am sure i hope so, but the sky is quite blue and cloudless. what a pity!” “ahem! ahem!” said the rocket, and he began to cough. “what a delightful voice you have!” cried the frog. “really it is quite like a croak, and croaking is of course the most musical sound in the world. you will hear our glee-club this evening. we sit in the old duck pond close by the farmer’s house, and as soon as the moon rises we begin. it is so entrancing that everybody lies awake to listen to us. in fact, it was only yesterday that i heard the farmer’s wife say to her mother that she could not get a wink of sleep at night on account of us. it is most gratifying to find oneself so popular.” “ahem! ahem!” said the rocket angrily. he was very much annoyed that he could not get a word in. “a delightful voice, certainly,” continued the frog; “i hope you will come over to the duck-pond. i am off to look for my daughters. i have six beautiful daughters, and i am so afraid the pike may meet them. he is a perfect monster, and would have no hesitation in breakfasting off them. well, good-bye: i have enjoyed our conversation very much, i assure you.” “conversation, indeed!” said the rocket. “you have talked the whole time yourself. that is not conversation.” “somebody must listen,” answered the frog, “and i like to do all the talking myself. it saves time, and prevents arguments.” “but i like arguments,” said the rocket. “i hope not,” said the frog complacently. “arguments are extremely vulgar, for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions. good-bye a second time; i see my daughters in the distance and the little frog swam away. “you are a very irritating person,” said the rocket, “and very ill-bred. i hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants to talk about oneself, as i do. it is what i call selfishness, and selfishness is a most detestable thing, especially to any one of my temperament, for i am well known for my sympathetic nature. in fact, you should take example by me; you could not possibly have a better model. now that you have the chance you had better avail yourself of it, for i am going back to court almost immediately. i am a great favourite at court; in fact, the prince and princess were married yesterday in my honour. of course you know nothing of these matters, for you are a provincial.” “there is no good talking to him,” said a dragon-fly, who was sitting on the top of a large brown bulrush; “no good at all, for he has gone away.” “well, that is his loss, not mine,” answered the rocket. “i am not going to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention. i like hearing myself talk. it is one of my greatest pleasures. i often have long conversations all by myself, and i am so clever that sometimes i don’t understand a single word of what i am saying.” “then you should certainly lecture on philosophy,” said the dragon-fly; and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky. “how very silly of him not to stay here!” said the rocket. “i am sure that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind. however, i don’t care a bit. genius like mine is sure to be appreciated some day”; and he sank down a little deeper into the mud. after some time a large white duck swam up to him. she had yellow legs, and webbed feet, and was considered a great beauty on account of her waddle. “quack, quack, quack,” she said. “what a curious shape you are! may i ask were you born like that, or is it the result of an accident?” “it is quite evident that you have always lived in the country,” answered the rocket, “otherwise you would know who i am. however, i excuse your ignorance. it would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable as oneself. you will no doubt be surprised to hear that i can fly up into the sky, and come down in a shower of golden rain.” “i don’t think much of that,” said the duck, “as i cannot see what use it is to any one. now, if you could plough the fields like the ox, or draw a cart like the horse, or look after the sheep like the collie-dog, that would be something.” “my good creature,” cried the rocket in a very haughty tone of voice, “i see that you belong to the lower orders. a person of my position is never useful. we have certain accomplishments, and that is more than sufficient. i have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind, least of all with such industries as you seem to recommend. indeed, i have always been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do.” “well, well,” said the duck, who was of a very peaceable disposition, and never quarrelled with any one, “everybody has different tastes. i hope, at any rate, that you are going to take up your residence here.” “oh! dear no,” cried the rocket. “i am merely a visitor, a distinguished visitor. the fact is that i find this place rather tedious. there is neither society here, nor solitude. in fact, it is essentially suburban. i shall probably go back to court, for i know that i am destined to make a sensation in the world.” “i had thoughts of entering public life once myself,” remarked the duck; “there are so many things that need reforming. indeed, i took the chair at a meeting some time ago, and we passed resolutions condemning everything that we did not like. however, they did not seem to have much effect. now i go in for domesticity, and look after my family.” “i am made for public life,” said the rocket, “and so are all my relations, even the humblest of them. whenever we appear we excite great attention. i have not actually appeared myself, but when i do so it will be a magnificent sight. as for domesticity, it ages one rapidly, and distracts one’s mind from higher things.” “ah! the higher things of life, how fine they are!” said the duck; “and that reminds me how hungry i feel”: and she swam away down the stream, saying, “quack, quack, quack.” “come back! come back!” screamed the rocket, “i have a great deal to say to you”; but the duck paid no attention to him. “i am glad that she has gone,” he said to himself, “she has a decidedly middle-class mind”; and he sank a little deeper still into the mud, and began to think about the loneliness of genius, when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came running down the bank, with a kettle and some faggots. “this must be the deputation,” said the rocket, and he tried to look very dignified. “hallo!” cried one of the boys, “look at this old stick! i wonder how it came here”; and he picked the rocket out of the ditch. “old stick!” said the rocket, “impossible! gold stick, that is what he said. gold stick is very complimentary. in fact, he mistakes me for one of the court dignitaries!” “let us put it into the fire!” said the other boy, “it will help to boil the kettle.” so they piled the faggots together, and put the rocket on top, and lit the fire. “this is magnificent,” cried the rocket, “they are going to let me off in broad day-light, so that every one can see me.” “we will go to sleep now,” they said, “and when we wake up the kettle will be boiled”; and they lay down on the grass, and shut their eyes. the rocket was very damp, so he took a long time to burn. at last, however, the fire caught him. “now i am going off!” he cried, and he made himself very stiff and straight. “i know i shall go much higher than the stars, much higher than the moon, much higher than the sun. in fact, i shall go so high that—” fizz! fizz! fizz! and he went straight up into the air. “delightful!” he cried, “i shall go on like this for ever. what a success i am!” but nobody saw him. then he began to feel a curious tingling sensation all over him. “now i am going to explode,” he cried. “i shall set the whole world on fire, and make such a noise that nobody will talk about anything else for a whole year.” and he certainly did explode. bang! bang! bang! went the gunpowder. there was no doubt about it. but nobody heard him, not even the two little boys, for they were sound asleep. then all that was left of him was the stick, and this fell down on the back of a goose who was taking a walk by the side of the ditch. “good heavens!” cried the goose. “it is going to rain sticks”; and she rushed into the water. “i knew i should create a great sensation,” gasped the rocket, and he went out.

<|EndOfText|>

i when mr. hiram b. otis, the american minister, bought canterville chase, every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing, as there was no doubt at all that the place was haunted. indeed, lord canterville himself, who was a man of the most punctilious honour, had felt it his duty to mention the fact to mr. otis when they came to discuss terms. "we have not cared to live in the place ourselves," said lord canterville, "since my grandaunt, the dowager duchess of bolton, was frightened into a fit, from which she never really recovered, by two skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for dinner, and i feel bound to tell you, mr. otis, that the ghost has been seen by several living members of my family, as well as by the rector of the parish, the rev. augustus dampier, who is a fellow of king's college, cambridge. after the unfortunate accident to the duchess, none of our younger servants would stay with us, and lady canterville often got very little sleep at night, in consequence of the mysterious noises that came from the corridor and the library." "my lord," answered the minister, "i will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation. i have come from a modern country, where we have everything that money can buy; and with all our spry young fellows painting the old world red, and carrying off your best actors and prima-donnas, i reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in europe, we'd have it at home in a very short time in one of our public museums, or on the road as a show." "i fear that the ghost exists," said lord canterville, smiling, "though it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios. it has been well known for three centuries, since <UNK> in fact, and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family." "well, so does the family doctor for that matter, lord canterville. but there is no such thing, sir, as a ghost, and i guess the laws of nature are not going to be suspended for the british aristocracy." "you are certainly very natural in america," answered lord canterville, who did not quite understand mr. otis's last observation, "and if you don't mind a ghost in the house, it is all right. only you must remember i warned you." [illustration: miss virginia e. otis] a few weeks after this, the purchase was concluded, and at the close of the season the minister and his family went down to canterville chase. mrs. otis, who, as miss lucretia r. tappan, of west <UNK> street, had been a celebrated new york belle, was now a very handsome, middle-aged woman, with fine eyes, and a superb profile. many american ladies on leaving their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health, under the impression that it is a form of european refinement, but mrs. otis had never fallen into this error. she had a magnificent constitution, and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits. indeed, in many respects, she was quite english, and was an excellent example of the fact that we have really everything in common with america nowadays, except, of course, language. her eldest son, christened washington by his parents in a moment of patriotism, which he never ceased to regret, was a fair-haired, rather good-looking young man, who had qualified himself for american diplomacy by leading the german at the newport casino for three successive seasons, and even in london was well known as an excellent dancer. gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses. otherwise he was extremely sensible. miss virginia e. otis was a little girl of fifteen, lithe and lovely as a fawn, and with a fine freedom in her large blue eyes. she was a wonderful amazon, and had once raced old lord bilton on her pony twice round the park, winning by a length and a half, just in front of the achilles statue, to the huge delight of the young duke of cheshire, who proposed for her on the spot, and was sent back to eton that very night by his guardians, in floods of tears. after virginia came the twins, who were usually called "the star and stripes," as they were always getting swished. they were delightful boys, and, with the exception of the worthy minister, the only true republicans of the family. [illustration: "had once raced old lord bilton on her pony"] as canterville chase is seven miles from ascot, the nearest railway station, mr. otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them, and they started on their drive in high spirits. it was a lovely july evening, and the air was delicate with the scent of the pinewoods. now and then they heard a wood-pigeon brooding over its own sweet voice, or saw, deep in the rustling fern, the burnished breast of the pheasant. little squirrels peered at them from the beech-trees as they went by, and the rabbits scudded away through the brushwood and over the mossy knolls, with their white tails in the air. as they entered the avenue of canterville chase, however, the sky became suddenly overcast with clouds, a curious stillness seemed to hold the atmosphere, a great flight of rooks passed silently over their heads, and, before they reached the house, some big drops of rain had fallen. standing on the steps to receive them was an old woman, neatly dressed in black silk, with a white cap and apron. this was mrs. umney, the housekeeper, whom mrs. otis, at lady canterville's earnest request, had consented to keep in her former position. she made them each a low curtsey as they alighted, and said in a quaint, old-fashioned manner, "i bid you welcome to canterville chase." following her, they passed through the fine tudor hall into the library, a long, low room, panelled in black oak, at the end of which was a large stained glass window. here they found tea laid out for them, and, after taking off their wraps, they sat down and began to look round, while mrs. umney waited on them. suddenly mrs. otis caught sight of a dull red stain on the floor just by the fireplace, and, quite unconscious of what it really signified, said to mrs. umney, "i am afraid something has been spilt there." "yes, madam," replied the old housekeeper in a low voice, "blood has been spilt on that spot." [illustration: "blood has been spilled on that spot"] "how horrid!" cried mrs. otis; "i don't at all care for blood-stains in a sitting-room. it must be removed at once." the old woman smiled, and answered in the same low, mysterious voice, "it is the blood of lady eleanore de canterville, who was murdered on that very spot by her own husband, sir simon de canterville, in <UNK> sir simon survived her nine years, and disappeared suddenly under very mysterious circumstances. his body has never been discovered, but his guilty spirit still haunts the chase. the blood-stain has been much admired by tourists and others, and cannot be removed." "that is all nonsense," cried washington otis; "pinkerton's champion stain remover and paragon detergent will clean it up in no time," and before the terrified housekeeper could interfere, he had fallen upon his knees, and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what looked like a black cosmetic. in a few moments no trace of the blood-stain could be seen. "i knew pinkerton would do it," he exclaimed, triumphantly, as he looked round at his admiring family; but no sooner had he said these words than a terrible flash of lightning lit up the sombre room, a fearful peal of thunder made them all start to their feet, and mrs. umney fainted. "what a monstrous climate!" said the american minister, calmly, as he lit a long cheroot. "i guess the old country is so overpopulated that they have not enough decent weather for everybody. i have always been of opinion that emigration is the only thing for england." "my dear hiram," cried mrs. otis, "what can we do with a woman who faints?" "charge it to her like breakages," answered the minister; "she won't faint after that;" and in a few moments mrs. umney certainly came to. there was no doubt, however, that she was extremely upset, and she sternly warned mr. otis to beware of some trouble coming to the house. "i have seen things with my own eyes, sir," she said, "that would make any christian's hair stand on end, and many and many a night i have not closed my eyes in sleep for the awful things that are done here." mr. otis, however, and his wife warmly assured the honest soul that they were not afraid of ghosts, and, after invoking the blessings of providence on her new master and mistress, and making arrangements for an increase of salary, the old housekeeper tottered off to her own room. ii the storm raged fiercely all that night, but nothing of particular note occurred. the next morning, however, when they came down to breakfast, they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor. "i don't think it can be the fault of the paragon detergent," said washington, "for i have tried it with everything. it must be the ghost." he accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time, but the second morning it appeared again. the third morning also it was there, though the library had been locked up at night by mr. otis himself, and the key carried up-stairs. the whole family were now quite interested; mr. otis began to suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the existence of ghosts, mrs. otis expressed her intention of joining the psychical society, and washington prepared a long letter to messrs. myers and podmore on the subject of the permanence of sanguineous stains when connected with crime. that night all doubts about the objective existence of phantasmata were removed for ever. the day had been warm and sunny; and, in the cool of the evening, the whole family went out to drive. they did not return home till nine o'clock, when they had a light supper. the conversation in no way turned upon ghosts, so there were not even those primary conditions of receptive expectations which so often precede the presentation of psychical phenomena. the subjects discussed, as i have since learned from mr. otis, were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of cultured americans of the better class, such as the immense superiority of miss fanny devonport over sarah bernhardt as an actress; the difficulty of obtaining green corn, buckwheat cakes, and hominy, even in the best english houses; the importance of boston in the development of the world-soul; the advantages of the baggage-check system in railway travelling; and the sweetness of the new york accent as compared to the london drawl. no mention at all was made of the supernatural, nor was sir simon de canterville alluded to in any way. at eleven o'clock the family retired, and by half-past all the lights were out. some time after, mr. otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor, outside his room. it sounded like the clank of metal, and seemed to be coming nearer every moment. he got up at once, struck a match, and looked at the time. it was exactly one o'clock. he was quite calm, and felt his pulse, which was not at all feverish. the strange noise still continued, and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps. he put on his slippers, took a small oblong phial out of his dressing-case, and opened the door. right in front of him he saw, in the wan moonlight, an old man of terrible aspect. his eyes were as red burning coals; long grey hair fell over his shoulders in matted coils; his garments, which were of antique cut, were soiled and ragged, and from his wrists and ankles hung heavy manacles and rusty gyves. "my dear sir," said mr. otis, "i really must insist on your oiling those chains, and have brought you for that purpose a small bottle of the tammany rising sun lubricator. it is said to be completely efficacious upon one application, and there are several testimonials to that effect on the wrapper from some of our most eminent native divines. i shall leave it here for you by the bedroom candles, and will be happy to supply you with more, should you require it." with these words the united states minister laid the bottle down on a marble table, and, closing his door, retired to rest. [illustration: "i really must insist on your oiling those chains"] for a moment the canterville ghost stood quite motionless in natural indignation; then, dashing the bottle violently upon the polished floor, he fled down the corridor, uttering hollow groans, and emitting a ghastly green light. just, however, as he reached the top of the great oak staircase, a door was flung open, two little white-robed figures appeared, and a large pillow whizzed past his head! there was evidently no time to be lost, so, hastily adopting the fourth dimension of space as a means of escape, he vanished through the wainscoting, and the house became quite quiet. on reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing, he leaned up against a moonbeam to recover his breath, and began to try and realize his position. never, in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three hundred years, had he been so grossly insulted. he thought of the dowager duchess, whom he had frightened into a fit as she stood before the glass in her lace and diamonds; of the four housemaids, who had gone into hysterics when he merely grinned at them through the curtains on one of the spare bedrooms; of the rector of the parish, whose candle he had blown out as he was coming late one night from the library, and who had been under the care of sir william gull ever since, a perfect martyr to nervous disorders; and of old madame de tremouillac, who, having wakened up one morning early and seen a skeleton seated in an armchair by the fire reading her diary, had been confined to her bed for six weeks with an attack of brain fever, and, on her recovery, had become reconciled to the church, and broken off her connection with that notorious sceptic, monsieur de voltaire. he remembered the terrible night when the wicked lord canterville was found choking in his dressing-room, with the knave of diamonds half-way down his throat, and confessed, just before he died, that he had cheated charles james fox out of <UNK> at crockford's by means of that very card, and swore that the ghost had made him swallow it. all his great achievements came back to him again, from the butler who had shot himself in the pantry because he had seen a green hand tapping at the window-pane, to the beautiful lady stutfield, who was always obliged to wear a black velvet band round her throat to hide the mark of five fingers burnt upon her white skin, and who drowned herself at last in the carp-pond at the end of the king's walk. with the enthusiastic egotism of the true artist, he went over his most celebrated performances, and smiled bitterly to himself as he recalled to mind his last appearance as "red reuben, or the strangled babe," his _début_ as "guant gibeon, the blood-sucker of bexley moor," and the _furore_ he had excited one lovely june evening by merely playing ninepins with his own bones upon the lawn-tennis ground. and after all this some wretched modern americans were to come and offer him the rising sun lubricator, and throw pillows at his head! it was quite unbearable. besides, no ghost in history had ever been treated in this manner. accordingly, he determined to have vengeance, and remained till daylight in an attitude of deep thought. iii the next morning, when the otis family met at breakfast, they discussed the ghost at some length. the united states minister was naturally a little annoyed to find that his present had not been accepted. "i have no wish," he said, "to do the ghost any personal injury, and i must say that, considering the length of time he has been in the house, i don't think it is at all polite to throw pillows at him,"--a very just remark, at which, i am sorry to say, the twins burst into shouts of laughter. "upon the other hand," he continued, "if he really declines to use the rising sun lubricator, we shall have to take his chains from him. it would be quite impossible to sleep, with such a noise going on outside the bedrooms." for the rest of the week, however, they were undisturbed, the only thing that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the blood-stain on the library floor. this certainly was very strange, as the door was always locked at night by mr. otis, and the windows kept closely barred. the chameleon-like colour, also, of the stain excited a good deal of comment. some mornings it was a dull (almost indian) red, then it would be vermilion, then a rich purple, and once when they came down for family prayers, according to the simple rites of the free american reformed episcopalian church, they found it a bright emerald-green. these kaleidoscopic changes naturally amused the party very much, and bets on the subject were freely made every evening. the only person who did not enter into the joke was little virginia, who, for some unexplained reason, was always a good deal distressed at the sight of the blood-stain, and very nearly cried the morning it was emerald-green. the second appearance of the ghost was on sunday night. shortly after they had gone to bed they were suddenly alarmed by a fearful crash in the hall. rushing down-stairs, they found that a large suit of old armour had become detached from its stand, and had fallen on the stone floor, while seated in a high-backed chair was the canterville ghost, rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face. the twins, having brought their pea-shooters with them, at once discharged two pellets on him, with that accuracy of aim which can only be attained by long and careful practice on a writing-master, while the united states minister covered him with his revolver, and called upon him, in accordance with californian etiquette, to hold up his hands! the ghost started up with a wild shriek of rage, and swept through them like a mist, extinguishing washington otis's candle as he passed, and so leaving them all in total darkness. on reaching the top of the staircase he recovered himself, and determined to give his celebrated peal of demoniac laughter. this he had on more than one occasion found extremely useful. it was said to have turned lord raker's wig grey in a single night, and had certainly made three of lady canterville's french governesses give warning before their month was up. he accordingly laughed his most horrible laugh, till the old vaulted roof rang and rang again, but hardly had the fearful echo died away when a door opened, and mrs. otis came out in a light blue dressing-gown. "i am afraid you are far from well," she said, "and have brought you a bottle of doctor dobell's tincture. if it is indigestion, you will find it a most excellent remedy." the ghost glared at her in fury, and began at once to make preparations for turning himself into a large black dog, an accomplishment for which he was justly renowned, and to which the family doctor always attributed the permanent idiocy of lord canterville's uncle, the hon. thomas horton. the sound of approaching footsteps, however, made him hesitate in his fell purpose, so he contented himself with becoming faintly phosphorescent, and vanished with a deep churchyard groan, just as the twins had come up to him. [illustration: "the twins ... at once discharged two pellets on him"] on reaching his room he entirely broke down, and became a prey to the most violent agitation. the vulgarity of the twins, and the gross materialism of mrs. otis, were naturally extremely annoying, but what really distressed him most was that he had been unable to wear the suit of mail. he had hoped that even modern americans would be thrilled by the sight of a spectre in armour, if for no more sensible reason, at least out of respect for their natural poet longfellow, over whose graceful and attractive poetry he himself had whiled away many a weary hour when the cantervilles were up in town. besides it was his own suit. he had worn it with great success at the kenilworth tournament, and had been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the virgin queen herself. yet when he had put it on, he had been completely overpowered by the weight of the huge breastplate and steel casque, and had fallen heavily on the stone pavement, barking both his knees severely, and bruising the knuckles of his right hand. for some days after this he was extremely ill, and hardly stirred out of his room at all, except to keep the blood-stain in proper repair. however, by taking great care of himself, he recovered, and resolved to make a third attempt to frighten the united states minister and his family. he selected friday, august <UNK> for his appearance, and spent most of that day in looking over his wardrobe, ultimately deciding in favour of a large slouched hat with a red feather, a winding-sheet frilled at the wrists and neck, and a rusty dagger. towards evening a violent storm of rain came on, and the wind was so high that all the windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled. in fact, it was just such weather as he loved. his plan of action was this. he was to make his way quietly to washington otis's room, gibber at him from the foot of the bed, and stab himself three times in the throat to the sound of low music. he bore washington a special grudge, being quite aware that it was he who was in the habit of removing the famous canterville blood-stain by means of pinkerton's paragon detergent. having reduced the reckless and foolhardy youth to a condition of abject terror, he was then to proceed to the room occupied by the united states minister and his wife, and there to place a clammy hand on mrs. otis's forehead, while he hissed into her trembling husband's ear the awful secrets of the charnel-house. with regard to little virginia, he had not quite made up his mind. she had never insulted him in any way, and was pretty and gentle. a few hollow groans from the wardrobe, he thought, would be more than sufficient, or, if that failed to wake her, he might grabble at the counterpane with palsy-twitching fingers. as for the twins, he was quite determined to teach them a lesson. the first thing to be done was, of course, to sit upon their chests, so as to produce the stifling sensation of nightmare. then, as their beds were quite close to each other, to stand between them in the form of a green, icy-cold corpse, till they became paralyzed with fear, and finally, to throw off the winding-sheet, and crawl round the room, with white, bleached bones and one rolling eyeball, in the character of "dumb daniel, or the suicide's skeleton," a _rôle_ in which he had on more than one occasion produced a great effect, and which he considered quite equal to his famous part of "martin the maniac, or the masked mystery." at half-past ten he heard the family going to bed. for some time he was disturbed by wild shrieks of laughter from the twins, who, with the light-hearted gaiety of schoolboys, were evidently amusing themselves before they retired to rest, but at a quarter-past eleven all was still, and, as midnight sounded, he sallied forth. the owl beat against the window-panes, the raven croaked from the old yew-tree, and the wind wandered moaning round the house like a lost soul; but the otis family slept unconscious of their doom, and high above the rain and storm he could hear the steady snoring of the minister for the united states. he stepped stealthily out of the wainscoting, with an evil smile on his cruel, wrinkled mouth, and the moon hid her face in a cloud as he stole past the great oriel window, where his own arms and those of his murdered wife were blazoned in azure and gold. on and on he glided, like an evil shadow, the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed. once he thought he heard something call, and stopped; but it was only the baying of a dog from the red farm, and he went on, muttering strange sixteenth-century curses, and ever and anon brandishing the rusty dagger in the midnight air. finally he reached the corner of the passage that led to luckless washington's room. for a moment he paused there, the wind blowing his long grey locks about his head, and twisting into grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man's shroud. then the clock struck the quarter, and he felt the time was come. he chuckled to himself, and turned the corner; but no sooner had he done so than, with a piteous wail of terror, he fell back, and hid his blanched face in his long, bony hands. right in front of him was standing a horrible spectre, motionless as a carven image, and monstrous as a madman's dream! its head was bald and burnished; its face round, and fat, and white; and hideous laughter seemed to have writhed its features into an eternal grin. from the eyes streamed rays of scarlet light, the mouth was a wide well of fire, and a hideous garment, like to his own, swathed with its silent snows the titan form. on its breast was a placard with strange writing in antique characters, some scroll of shame it seemed, some record of wild sins, some awful calendar of crime, and, with its right hand, it bore aloft a falchion of gleaming steel. [illustration: "its head was bald and burnished"] never having seen a ghost before, he naturally was terribly frightened, and, after a second hasty glance at the awful phantom, he fled back to his room, tripping up in his long winding-sheet as he sped down the corridor, and finally dropping the rusty dagger into the minister's jack-boots, where it was found in the morning by the butler. once in the privacy of his own apartment, he flung himself down on a small pallet-bed, and hid his face under the clothes. after a time, however, the brave old canterville spirit asserted itself, and he determined to go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight. accordingly, just as the dawn was touching the hills with silver, he returned towards the spot where he had first laid eyes on the grisly phantom, feeling that, after all, two ghosts were better than one, and that, by the aid of his new friend, he might safely grapple with the twins. on reaching the spot, however, a terrible sight met his gaze. something had evidently happened to the spectre, for the light had entirely faded from its hollow eyes, the gleaming falchion had fallen from its hand, and it was leaning up against the wall in a strained and uncomfortable attitude. he rushed forward and seized it in his arms, when, to his horror, the head slipped off and rolled on the floor, the body assumed a recumbent posture, and he found himself clasping a white dimity bed-curtain, with a sweeping-brush, a kitchen cleaver, and a hollow turnip lying at his feet! unable to understand this curious transformation, he clutched the placard with feverish haste, and there, in the grey morning light, he read these fearful words:-- +------------------------------------+ | ye otis ghoste | | ye onlie true and originale spook, | | beware of ye imitationes. | | all others are counterfeite. | +------------------------------------+ the whole thing flashed across him. he had been tricked, foiled, and out-witted! the old canterville look came into his eyes; he ground his toothless gums together; and, raising his withered hands high above his head, swore according to the picturesque phraseology of the antique school, that, when chanticleer had sounded twice his merry horn, deeds of blood would be wrought, and murder walk abroad with silent feet. hardly had he finished this awful oath when, from the red-tiled roof of a distant homestead, a cock crew. he laughed a long, low, bitter laugh, and waited. hour after hour he waited, but the cock, for some strange reason, did not crow again. finally, at half-past seven, the arrival of the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil, and he stalked back to his room, thinking of his vain oath and baffled purpose. there he consulted several books of ancient chivalry, of which he was exceedingly fond, and found that, on every occasion on which this oath had been used, chanticleer had always crowed a second time. "perdition seize the naughty fowl," he muttered, "i have seen the day when, with my stout spear, i would have run him through the gorge, and made him crow for me an 'twere in death!" he then retired to a comfortable lead coffin, and stayed there till evening. iv [illustration: "he met with a severe fall"] the next day the ghost was very weak and tired. the terrible excitement of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect. his nerves were completely shattered, and he started at the slightest noise. for five days he kept his room, and at last made up his mind to give up the point of the blood-stain on the library floor. if the otis family did not want it, they clearly did not deserve it. they were evidently people on a low, material plane of existence, and quite incapable of appreciating the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena. the question of phantasmic apparitions, and the development of astral bodies, was of course quite a different matter, and really not under his control. it was his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week, and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third wednesdays in every month, and he did not see how he could honourably escape from his obligations. it is quite true that his life had been very evil, but, upon the other hand, he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural. for the next three saturdays, accordingly, he traversed the corridor as usual between midnight and three o'clock, taking every possible precaution against being either heard or seen. he removed his boots, trod as lightly as possible on the old worm-eaten boards, wore a large black velvet cloak, and was careful to use the rising sun lubricator for oiling his chains. i am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection. however, one night, while the family were at dinner, he slipped into mr. otis's bedroom and carried off the bottle. he felt a little humiliated at first, but afterwards was sensible enough to see that there was a great deal to be said for the invention, and, to a certain degree, it served his purpose. still in spite of everything he was not left unmolested. strings were continually being stretched across the corridor, over which he tripped in the dark, and on one occasion, while dressed for the part of "black isaac, or the huntsman of hogley woods," he met with a severe fall, through treading on a butter-slide, which the twins had constructed from the entrance of the tapestry chamber to the top of the oak staircase. this last insult so enraged him, that he resolved to make one final effort to assert his dignity and social position, and determined to visit the insolent young etonians the next night in his celebrated character of "reckless rupert, or the headless earl." [illustration: "a heavy jug of water fell right down on him."] he had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years; in fact, not since he had so frightened pretty lady barbara modish by means of it, that she suddenly broke off her engagement with the present lord canterville's grandfather, and ran away to gretna green with handsome jack castletown, declaring that nothing in the world would induce her to marry into a family that allowed such a horrible phantom to walk up and down the terrace at twilight. poor jack was afterwards shot in a duel by lord canterville on wandsworth common, and lady barbara died of a broken heart at tunbridge wells before the year was out, so, in every way, it had been a great success. it was, however an extremely difficult "make-up," if i may use such a theatrical expression in connection with one of the greatest mysteries of the supernatural, or, to employ a more scientific term, the higher-natural world, and it took him fully three hours to make his preparations. at last everything was ready, and he was very pleased with his appearance. the big leather riding-boots that went with the dress were just a little too large for him, and he could only find one of the two horse-pistols, but, on the whole, he was quite satisfied, and at a quarter-past one he glided out of the wainscoting and crept down the corridor. on reaching the room occupied by the twins, which i should mention was called the blue bed chamber, on account of the colour of its hangings, he found the door just ajar. wishing to make an effective entrance, he flung it wide open, when a heavy jug of water fell right down on him, wetting him to the skin, and just missing his left shoulder by a couple of inches. at the same moment he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four-post bed. the shock to his nervous system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he could go, and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold. the only thing that at all consoled him in the whole affair was the fact that he had not brought his head with him, for, had he done so, the consequences might have been very serious. [illustration: "making satirical remarks on the photographs"] he now gave up all hope of ever frightening this rude american family, and contented himself, as a rule, with creeping about the passages in list slippers, with a thick red muffler round his throat for fear of draughts, and a small arquebuse, in case he should be attacked by the twins. the final blow he received occurred on the <UNK> of september. he had gone down-stairs to the great entrance-hall, feeling sure that there, at any rate, he would be quite unmolested, and was amusing himself by making satirical remarks on the large saroni photographs of the united states minister and his wife which had now taken the place of the canterville family pictures. he was simply but neatly clad in a long shroud, spotted with churchyard mould, had tied up his jaw with a strip of yellow linen, and carried a small lantern and a sexton's spade. in fact, he was dressed for the character of "jonas the graveless, or the corpse-snatcher of chertsey barn," one of his most remarkable impersonations, and one which the cantervilles had every reason to remember, as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their neighbour, lord rufford. it was about a quarter-past two o'clock in the morning, and, as far as he could ascertain, no one was stirring. as he was strolling towards the library, however, to see if there were any traces left of the blood-stain, suddenly there leaped out on him from a dark corner two figures, who waved their arms wildly above their heads, and shrieked out "boo!" in his ear. [illustration: "suddenly there leaped out two figures."] seized with a panic, which, under the circumstances, was only natural, he rushed for the staircase, but found washington otis waiting for him there with the big garden-syringe, and being thus hemmed in by his enemies on every side, and driven almost to bay, he vanished into the great iron stove, which, fortunately for him, was not lit, and had to make his way home through the flues and chimneys, arriving at his own room in a terrible state of dirt, disorder, and despair. after this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition. the twins lay in wait for him on several occasions, and strewed the passages with nutshells every night to the great annoyance of their parents and the servants, but it was of no avail. it was quite evident that his feelings were so wounded that he would not appear. mr. otis consequently resumed his great work on the history of the democratic party, on which he had been engaged for some years; mrs. otis organized a wonderful clam-bake, which amazed the whole county; the boys took to lacrosse euchre, poker, and other american national games, and virginia rode about the lanes on her pony, accompanied by the young duke of cheshire, who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at canterville chase. it was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away, and, in fact, mr. otis wrote a letter to that effect to lord canterville, who, in reply, expressed his great pleasure at the news, and sent his best congratulations to the minister's worthy wife. the otises, however, were deceived, for the ghost was still in the house, and though now almost an invalid, was by no means ready to let matters rest, particularly as he heard that among the guests was the young duke of cheshire, whose grand-uncle, lord francis stilton, had once bet a hundred guineas with colonel carbury that he would play dice with the canterville ghost, and was found the next morning lying on the floor of the card-room in such a helpless paralytic state that, though he lived on to a great age, he was never able to say anything again but "double sixes." the story was well known at the time, though, of course, out of respect to the feelings of the two noble families, every attempt was made to hush it up, and a full account of all the circumstances connected with it will be found in the third volume of lord tattle's _recollections of the prince regent and his friends_. the ghost, then, was naturally very anxious to show that he had not lost his influence over the stiltons, with whom, indeed, he was distantly connected, his own first cousin having been married _en secondes noces_ to the sieur de bulkeley, from whom, as every one knows, the dukes of cheshire are lineally descended. accordingly, he made arrangements for appearing to virginia's little lover in his celebrated impersonation of "the vampire monk, or the bloodless benedictine," a performance so horrible that when old lady startup saw it, which she did on one fatal new year's eve, in the year <UNK> she went off into the most piercing shrieks, which culminated in violent apoplexy, and died in three days, after disinheriting the cantervilles, who were her nearest relations, and leaving all her money to her london apothecary. at the last moment, however, his terror of the twins prevented his leaving his room, and the little duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the royal bedchamber, and dreamed of virginia. v a few days after this, virginia and her curly-haired cavalier went out riding on brockley meadows, where she tore her habit so badly in getting through a hedge that, on their return home, she made up her mind to go up by the back staircase so as not to be seen. as she was running past the tapestry chamber, the door of which happened to be open, she fancied she saw some one inside, and thinking it was her mother's maid, who sometimes used to bring her work there, looked in to ask her to mend her habit. to her immense surprise, however, it was the canterville ghost himself! he was sitting by the window, watching the ruined gold of the yellowing trees fly through the air, and the red leaves dancing madly down the long avenue. his head was leaning on his hand, and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression. indeed, so forlorn, and so much out of repair did he look, that little virginia, whose first idea had been to run away and lock herself in her room, was filled with pity, and determined to try and comfort him. so light was her footfall, and so deep his melancholy, that he was not aware of her presence till she spoke to him. "i am so sorry for you," she said, "but my brothers are going back to eton to-morrow, and then, if you behave yourself, no one will annoy you." "it is absurd asking me to behave myself," he answered, looking round in astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him, "quite absurd. i must rattle my chains, and groan through keyholes, and walk about at night, if that is what you mean. it is my only reason for existing." "it is no reason at all for existing, and you know you have been very wicked. mrs. umney told us, the first day we arrived here, that you had killed your wife." "well, i quite admit it," said the ghost, petulantly, "but it was a purely family matter, and concerned no one else." "it is very wrong to kill any one," said virginia, who at times had a sweet puritan gravity, caught from some old new england ancestor. "oh, i hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics! my wife was very plain, never had my ruffs properly starched, and knew nothing about cookery. why, there was a buck i had shot in hogley woods, a magnificent pricket, and do you know how she had it sent to table? however, it is no matter now, for it is all over, and i don't think it was very nice of her brothers to starve me to death, though i did kill her." "starve you to death? oh, mr. ghost--i mean sir simon, are you hungry? i have a sandwich in my case. would you like it?" "no, thank you, i never eat anything now; but it is very kind of you, all the same, and you are much nicer than the rest of your horrid, rude, vulgar, dishonest family." "stop!" cried virginia, stamping her foot, "it is you who are rude, and horrid, and vulgar, and as for dishonesty, you know you stole the paints out of my box to try and furbish up that ridiculous blood-stain in the library. first you took all my reds, including the vermilion, and i couldn't do any more sunsets, then you took the emerald-green and the chrome-yellow, and finally i had nothing left but indigo and chinese white, and could only do moonlight scenes, which are always depressing to look at, and not at all easy to paint. i never told on you, though i was very much annoyed, and it was most ridiculous, the whole thing; for who ever heard of emerald-green blood?" "well, really," said the ghost, rather meekly, "what was i to do? it is a very difficult thing to get real blood nowadays, and, as your brother began it all with his paragon detergent, i certainly saw no reason why i should not have your paints. as for colour, that is always a matter of taste: the cantervilles have blue blood, for instance, the very bluest in england; but i know you americans don't care for things of this kind." "you know nothing about it, and the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind. my father will be only too happy to give you a free passage, and though there is a heavy duty on spirits of every kind, there will be no difficulty about the custom house, as the officers are all democrats. once in new york, you are sure to be a great success. i know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather, and much more than that to have a family ghost." "i don't think i should like america." "i suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities," said virginia, satirically. "no ruins! no curiosities!" answered the ghost; "you have your navy and your manners." "good evening; i will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week's holiday." "please don't go, miss virginia," he cried; "i am so lonely and so unhappy, and i really don't know what to do. i want to go to sleep and i cannot." "that's quite absurd! you have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle. it is very difficult sometimes to keep awake, especially at church, but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping. why, even babies know how to do that, and they are not very clever." "i have not slept for three hundred years," he said sadly, and virginia's beautiful blue eyes opened in wonder; "for three hundred years i have not slept, and i am so tired." virginia grew quite grave, and her little lips trembled like rose-leaves. she came towards him, and kneeling down at his side, looked up into his old withered face. "poor, poor ghost," she murmured; "have you no place where you can sleep?" [illustration: "'poor, poor ghost,' she murmured; 'have you no place where you can sleep?'"] "far away beyond the pine-woods," he answered, in a low, dreamy voice, "there is a little garden. there the grass grows long and deep, there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower, there the nightingale sings all night long. all night long he sings, and the cold crystal moon looks down, and the yew-tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers." virginia's eyes grew dim with tears, and she hid her face in her hands. "you mean the garden of death," she whispered. "yes, death. death must be so beautiful. to lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence. to have no yesterday, and no to-morrow. to forget time, to forget life, to be at peace. you can help me. you can open for me the portals of death's house, for love is always with you, and love is stronger than death is." virginia trembled, a cold shudder ran through her, and for a few moments there was silence. she felt as if she was in a terrible dream. then the ghost spoke again, and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind. "have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window?" "oh, often," cried the little girl, looking up; "i know it quite well. it is painted in curious black letters, and is difficult to read. there are only six lines: "'when a golden girl can win prayer from out the lips of sin, when the barren almond bears, and a little child gives away its tears, then shall all the house be still and peace come to canterville.' "but i don't know what they mean." "they mean," he said, sadly, "that you must weep with me for my sins, because i have no tears, and pray with me for my soul, because i have no faith, and then, if you have always been sweet, and good, and gentle, the angel of death will have mercy on me. you will see fearful shapes in darkness, and wicked voices will whisper in your ear, but they will not harm you, for against the purity of a little child the powers of hell cannot prevail." virginia made no answer, and the ghost wrung his hands in wild despair as he looked down at her bowed golden head. suddenly she stood up, very pale, and with a strange light in her eyes. "i am not afraid," she said firmly, "and i will ask the angel to have mercy on you." he rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy, and taking her hand bent over it with old-fashioned grace and kissed it. his fingers were as cold as ice, and his lips burned like fire, but virginia did not falter, as he led her across the dusky room. on the faded green tapestry were broidered little huntsmen. they blew their tasselled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go back. "go back! little virginia," they cried, "go back!" but the ghost clutched her hand more tightly, and she shut her eyes against them. horrible animals with lizard tails and goggle eyes blinked at her from the carven chimneypiece, and murmured, "beware! little virginia, beware! we may never see you again," but the ghost glided on more swiftly, and virginia did not listen. when they reached the end of the room he stopped, and muttered some words she could not understand. she opened her eyes, and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist, and a great black cavern in front of her. a bitter cold wind swept round them, and she felt something pulling at her dress. "quick, quick," cried the ghost, "or it will be too late," and in a moment the wainscoting had closed behind them, and the tapestry chamber was empty. [illustration: "the ghost glided on more swiftly"] vi about ten minutes later, the bell rang for tea, and, as virginia did not come down, mrs. otis sent up one of the footmen to tell her. after a little time he returned and said that he could not find miss virginia anywhere. as she was in the habit of going out to the garden every evening to get flowers for the dinner-table, mrs. otis was not at all alarmed at first, but when six o'clock struck, and virginia did not appear, she became really agitated, and sent the boys out to look for her, while she herself and mr. otis searched every room in the house. at half-past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere. they were all now in the greatest state of excitement, and did not know what to do, when mr. otis suddenly remembered that, some few days before, he had given a band of gipsies permission to camp in the park. he accordingly at once set off for blackfell hollow, where he knew they were, accompanied by his eldest son and two of the farm-servants. the little duke of cheshire, who was perfectly frantic with anxiety, begged hard to be allowed to go too, but mr. otis would not allow him, as he was afraid there might be a scuffle. on arriving at the spot, however, he found that the gipsies had gone, and it was evident that their departure had been rather sudden, as the fire was still burning, and some plates were lying on the grass. having sent off washington and the two men to scour the district, he ran home, and despatched telegrams to all the police inspectors in the county, telling them to look out for a little girl who had been kidnapped by tramps or gipsies. he then ordered his horse to be brought round, and, after insisting on his wife and the three boys sitting down to dinner, rode off down the ascot road with a groom. he had hardly, however, gone a couple of miles, when he heard somebody galloping after him, and, looking round, saw the little duke coming up on his pony, with his face very flushed, and no hat. "i'm awfully sorry, mr. otis," gasped out the boy, "but i can't eat any dinner as long as virginia is lost. please don't be angry with me; if you had let us be engaged last year, there would never have been all this trouble. you won't send me back, will you? i can't go! i won't go!" [illustration: "he heard somebody galloping after him"] the minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace, and was a good deal touched at his devotion to virginia, so leaning down from his horse, he patted him kindly on the shoulders, and said, "well, cecil, if you won't go back, i suppose you must come with me, but i must get you a hat at ascot." "oh, bother my hat! i want virginia!" cried the little duke, laughing, and they galloped on to the railway station. there mr. otis inquired of the station-master if any one answering to the description of virginia had been seen on the platform, but could get no news of her. the station-master, however, wired up and down the line, and assured him that a strict watch would be kept for her, and, after having bought a hat for the little duke from a linen-draper, who was just putting up his shutters, mr. otis rode off to bexley, a village about four miles away, which he was told was a well-known haunt of the gipsies, as there was a large common next to it. here they roused up the rural policeman, but could get no information from him, and, after riding all over the common, they turned their horses' heads homewards, and reached the chase about eleven o'clock, dead-tired and almost heart-broken. they found washington and the twins waiting for them at the gate-house with lanterns, as the avenue was very dark. not the slightest trace of virginia had been discovered. the gipsies had been caught on brockley meadows, but she was not with them, and they had explained their sudden departure by saying that they had mistaken the date of chorton fair, and had gone off in a hurry for fear they should be late. indeed, they had been quite distressed at hearing of virginia's disappearance, as they were very grateful to mr. otis for having allowed them to camp in his park, and four of their number had stayed behind to help in the search. the carp-pond had been dragged, and the whole chase thoroughly gone over, but without any result. it was evident that, for that night at any rate, virginia was lost to them; and it was in a state of the deepest depression that mr. otis and the boys walked up to the house, the groom following behind with the two horses and the pony. in the hall they found a group of frightened servants, and lying on a sofa in the library was poor mrs. otis, almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety, and having her forehead bathed with eau de cologne by the old housekeeper. mr. otis at once insisted on her having something to eat, and ordered up supper for the whole party. it was a melancholy meal, as hardly any one spoke, and even the twins were awestruck and subdued, as they were very fond of their sister. when they had finished, mr. otis, in spite of the entreaties of the little duke, ordered them all to bed, saying that nothing more could be done that night, and that he would telegraph in the morning to scotland yard for some detectives to be sent down immediately. just as they were passing out of the dining-room, midnight began to boom from the clock tower, and when the last stroke sounded they heard a crash and a sudden shrill cry; a dreadful peal of thunder shook the house, a strain of unearthly music floated through the air, a panel at the top of the staircase flew back with a loud noise, and out on the landing, looking very pale and white, with a little casket in her hand, stepped virginia. in a moment they had all rushed up to her. mrs. otis clasped her passionately in her arms, the duke smothered her with violent kisses, and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group. [illustration: "out on the landing stepped virginia"] "good heavens! child, where have you been?" said mr. otis, rather angrily, thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them. "cecil and i have been riding all over the country looking for you, and your mother has been frightened to death. you must never play these practical jokes any more." "except on the ghost! except on the ghost!" shrieked the twins, as they capered about. "my own darling, thank god you are found; you must never leave my side again," murmured mrs. otis, as she kissed the trembling child, and smoothed the tangled gold of her hair. "papa," said virginia, quietly, "i have been with the ghost. he is dead, and you must come and see him. he had been very wicked, but he was really sorry for all that he had done, and he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died." the whole family gazed at her in mute amazement, but she was quite grave and serious; and, turning round, she led them through the opening in the wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor, washington following with a lighted candle, which he had caught up from the table. finally, they came to a great oak door, studded with rusty nails. when virginia touched it, it swung back on its heavy hinges, and they found themselves in a little low room, with a vaulted ceiling, and one tiny grated window. imbedded in the wall was a huge iron ring, and chained to it was a gaunt skeleton, that was stretched out at full length on the stone floor, and seemed to be trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers an old-fashioned trencher and ewer, that were placed just out of its reach. the jug had evidently been once filled with water, as it was covered inside with green mould. there was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust. virginia knelt down beside the skeleton, and, folding her little hands together, began to pray silently, while the rest of the party looked on in wonder at the terrible tragedy whose secret was now disclosed to them. [illustration: "chained to it was a gaunt skeleton"] "hallo!" suddenly exclaimed one of the twins, who had been looking out of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated. "hallo! the old withered almond-tree has blossomed. i can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight." "god has forgiven him," said virginia, gravely, as she rose to her feet, and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face. "what an angel you are!" cried the young duke, and he put his arm round her neck, and kissed her. vii [illustration: "by the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches"] four days after these curious incidents, a funeral started from canterville chase at about eleven o'clock at night. the hearse was drawn by eight black horses, each of which carried on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrich-plumes, and the leaden coffin was covered by a rich purple pall, on which was embroidered in gold the canterville coat-of-arms. by the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches, and the whole procession was wonderfully impressive. lord canterville was the chief mourner, having come up specially from wales to attend the funeral, and sat in the first carriage along with little virginia. then came the united states minister and his wife, then washington and the three boys, and in the last carriage was mrs. umney. it was generally felt that, as she had been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life, she had a right to see the last of him. a deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard, just under the old yew-tree, and the service was read in the most impressive manner by the rev. augustus dampier. when the ceremony was over, the servants, according to an old custom observed in the canterville family, extinguished their torches, and, as the coffin was being lowered into the grave, virginia stepped forward, and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almond-blossoms. as she did so, the moon came out from behind a cloud, and flooded with its silent silver the little churchyard, and from a distant copse a nightingale began to sing. she thought of the ghost's description of the garden of death, her eyes became dim with tears, and she hardly spoke a word during the drive home. [illustration: "the moon came out from behind a cloud"] the next morning, before lord canterville went up to town, mr. otis had an interview with him on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to virginia. they were perfectly magnificent, especially a certain ruby necklace with old venetian setting, which was really a superb specimen of sixteenth-century work, and their value was so great that mr. otis felt considerable scruples about allowing his daughter to accept them. "my lord," he said, "i know that in this country mortmain is held to apply to trinkets as well as to land, and it is quite clear to me that these jewels are, or should be, heirlooms in your family. i must beg you, accordingly, to take them to london with you, and to regard them simply as a portion of your property which has been restored to you under certain strange conditions. as for my daughter, she is merely a child, and has as yet, i am glad to say, but little interest in such appurtenances of idle luxury. i am also informed by mrs. otis, who, i may say, is no mean authority upon art,--having had the privilege of spending several winters in boston when she was a girl,--that these gems are of great monetary worth, and if offered for sale would fetch a tall price. under these circumstances, lord canterville, i feel sure that you will recognize how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain in the possession of any member of my family; and, indeed, all such vain gauds and toys, however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the british aristocracy, would be completely out of place among those who have been brought up on the severe, and i believe immortal, principles of republican simplicity. perhaps i should mention that virginia is very anxious that you should allow her to retain the box, as a memento of your unfortunate but misguided ancestor. as it is extremely old, and consequently a good deal out of repair, you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request. for my own part, i confess i am a good deal surprised to find a child of mine expressing sympathy with mediævalism in any form, and can only account for it by the fact that virginia was born in one of your london suburbs shortly after mrs. otis had returned from a trip to athens." lord canterville listened very gravely to the worthy minister's speech, pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile, and when mr. otis had ended, he shook him cordially by the hand, and said: "my dear sir, your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor, sir simon, a very important service, and i and my family are much indebted to her for her marvellous courage and pluck. the jewels are clearly hers, and, egad, i believe that if i were heartless enough to take them from her, the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave in a fortnight, leading me the devil of a life. as for their being heirlooms, nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or legal document, and the existence of these jewels has been quite unknown. i assure you i have no more claim on them than your butler, and when miss virginia grows up, i dare say she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear. besides, you forget, mr. otis, that you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation, and anything that belonged to the ghost passed at once into your possession, as, whatever activity sir simon may have shown in the corridor at night, in point of law he was really dead, and you acquired his property by purchase." mr. otis was a good deal distressed at lord canterville's refusal, and begged him to reconsider his decision, but the good-natured peer was quite firm, and finally induced the minister to allow his daughter to retain the present the ghost had given her, and when, in the spring of <UNK> the young duchess of cheshire was presented at the queen's first drawing-room on the occasion of her marriage, her jewels were the universal theme of admiration. for virginia received the coronet, which is the reward of all good little american girls, and was married to her boy-lover as soon as he came of age. they were both so charming, and they loved each other so much, that every one was delighted at the match, except the old marchioness of dumbleton, who had tried to catch the duke for one of her seven unmarried daughters, and had given no less than three expensive dinner-parties for that purpose, and, strange to say, mr. otis himself. mr. otis was extremely fond of the young duke personally, but, theoretically, he objected to titles, and, to use his own words, "was not without apprehension lest, amid the enervating influences of a pleasure-loving aristocracy, the true principles of republican simplicity should be forgotten." his objections, however, were completely overruled, and i believe that when he walked up the aisle of st. george's, hanover square, with his daughter leaning on his arm, there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of england. the duke and duchess, after the honeymoon was over, went down to canterville chase, and on the day after their arrival they walked over in the afternoon to the lonely churchyard by the pine-woods. there had been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on sir simon's tombstone, but finally it had been decided to engrave on it simply the initials of the old gentleman's name, and the verse from the library window. the duchess had brought with her some lovely roses, which she strewed upon the grave, and after they had stood by it for some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey. there the duchess sat down on a fallen pillar, while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes. suddenly he threw his cigarette away, took hold of her hand, and said to her, "virginia, a wife should have no secrets from her husband." "dear cecil! i have no secrets from you." "yes, you have," he answered, smiling, "you have never told me what happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost." "i have never told any one, cecil," said virginia, gravely. "i know that, but you might tell me." "please don't ask me, cecil, i cannot tell you. poor sir simon! i owe him a great deal. yes, don't laugh, cecil, i really do. he made me see what life is, and what death signifies, and why love is stronger than both." the duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly. "you can have your secret as long as i have your heart," he murmured. "you have always had that, cecil." "and you will tell our children some day, won't you?" virginia blushed.

<|EndOfText|>

chapter <UNK> the studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate perfume of the pink-flowering thorn. from the corner of the divan of persian saddle-bags on which he was lying, smoking, as was his custom, innumerable cigarettes, lord henry wotton could just catch the gleam of the honey-sweet and honey-coloured blossoms of a laburnum, whose tremulous branches seemed hardly able to bear the burden of a beauty so flamelike as theirs; and now and then the fantastic shadows of birds in flight flitted across the long tussore-silk curtains that were stretched in front of the huge window, producing a kind of momentary japanese effect, and making him think of those pallid, jade-faced painters of tokyo who, through the medium of an art that is necessarily immobile, seek to convey the sense of swiftness and motion. the sullen murmur of the bees shouldering their way through the long unmown grass, or circling with monotonous insistence round the dusty gilt horns of the straggling woodbine, seemed to make the stillness more oppressive. the dim roar of london was like the bourdon note of a distant organ. in the centre of the room, clamped to an upright easel, stood the full-length portrait of a young man of extraordinary personal beauty, and in front of it, some little distance away, was sitting the artist himself, basil hallward, whose sudden disappearance some years ago caused, at the time, such public excitement and gave rise to so many strange conjectures. as the painter looked at the gracious and comely form he had so skilfully mirrored in his art, a smile of pleasure passed across his face, and seemed about to linger there. but he suddenly started up, and closing his eyes, placed his fingers upon the lids, as though he sought to imprison within his brain some curious dream from which he feared he might awake. "it is your best work, basil, the best thing you have ever done," said lord henry languidly. "you must certainly send it next year to the grosvenor. the academy is too large and too vulgar. whenever i have gone there, there have been either so many people that i have not been able to see the pictures, which was dreadful, or so many pictures that i have not been able to see the people, which was worse. the grosvenor is really the only place." "i don't think i shall send it anywhere," he answered, tossing his head back in that odd way that used to make his friends laugh at him at oxford. "no, i won't send it anywhere." lord henry elevated his eyebrows and looked at him in amazement through the thin blue wreaths of smoke that curled up in such fanciful whorls from his heavy, opium-tainted cigarette. "not send it anywhere? my dear fellow, why? have you any reason? what odd chaps you painters are! you do anything in the world to gain a reputation. as soon as you have one, you seem to want to throw it away. it is silly of you, for there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about. a portrait like this would set you far above all the young men in england, and make the old men quite jealous, if old men are ever capable of any emotion." "i know you will laugh at me," he replied, "but i really can't exhibit it. i have put too much of myself into it." lord henry stretched himself out on the divan and laughed. "yes, i knew you would; but it is quite true, all the same." "too much of yourself in it! upon my word, basil, i didn't know you were so vain; and i really can't see any resemblance between you, with your rugged strong face and your coal-black hair, and this young adonis, who looks as if he was made out of ivory and rose-leaves. why, my dear basil, he is a narcissus, and you--well, of course you have an intellectual expression and all that. but beauty, real beauty, ends where an intellectual expression begins. intellect is in itself a mode of exaggeration, and destroys the harmony of any face. the moment one sits down to think, one becomes all nose, or all forehead, or something horrid. look at the successful men in any of the learned professions. how perfectly hideous they are! except, of course, in the church. but then in the church they don't think. a bishop keeps on saying at the age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen, and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful. your mysterious young friend, whose name you have never told me, but whose picture really fascinates me, never thinks. i feel quite sure of that. he is some brainless beautiful creature who should be always here in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer when we want something to chill our intelligence. don't flatter yourself, basil: you are not in the least like him." "you don't understand me, harry," answered the artist. "of course i am not like him. i know that perfectly well. indeed, i should be sorry to look like him. you shrug your shoulders? i am telling you the truth. there is a fatality about all physical and intellectual distinction, the sort of fatality that seems to dog through history the faltering steps of kings. it is better not to be different from one's fellows. the ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world. they can sit at their ease and gape at the play. if they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat. they live as we all should live--undisturbed, indifferent, and without disquiet. they neither bring ruin upon others, nor ever receive it from alien hands. your rank and wealth, harry; my brains, such as they are--my art, whatever it may be worth; dorian gray's good looks--we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly." "dorian gray? is that his name?" asked lord henry, walking across the studio towards basil hallward. "yes, that is his name. i didn't intend to tell it to you." "but why not?" "oh, i can't explain. when i like people immensely, i never tell their names to any one. it is like surrendering a part of them. i have grown to love secrecy. it seems to be the one thing that can make modern life mysterious or marvellous to us. the commonest thing is delightful if one only hides it. when i leave town now i never tell my people where i am going. if i did, i would lose all my pleasure. it is a silly habit, i dare say, but somehow it seems to bring a great deal of romance into one's life. i suppose you think me awfully foolish about it?" "not at all," answered lord henry, "not at all, my dear basil. you seem to forget that i am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. i never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what i am doing. when we meet--we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go down to the duke's--we tell each other the most absurd stories with the most serious faces. my wife is very good at it--much better, in fact, than i am. she never gets confused over her dates, and i always do. but when she does find me out, she makes no row at all. i sometimes wish she would; but she merely laughs at me." "i hate the way you talk about your married life, harry," said basil hallward, strolling towards the door that led into the garden. "i believe that you are really a very good husband, but that you are thoroughly ashamed of your own virtues. you are an extraordinary fellow. you never say a moral thing, and you never do a wrong thing. your cynicism is simply a pose." "being natural is simply a pose, and the most irritating pose i know," cried lord henry, laughing; and the two young men went out into the garden together and ensconced themselves on a long bamboo seat that stood in the shade of a tall laurel bush. the sunlight slipped over the polished leaves. in the grass, white daisies were tremulous. after a pause, lord henry pulled out his watch. "i am afraid i must be going, basil," he murmured, "and before i go, i insist on your answering a question i put to you some time ago." "what is that?" said the painter, keeping his eyes fixed on the ground. "you know quite well." "i do not, harry." "well, i will tell you what it is. i want you to explain to me why you won't exhibit dorian gray's picture. i want the real reason." "i told you the real reason." "no, you did not. you said it was because there was too much of yourself in it. now, that is childish." "harry," said basil hallward, looking him straight in the face, "every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter. the sitter is merely the accident, the occasion. it is not he who is revealed by the painter; it is rather the painter who, on the coloured canvas, reveals himself. the reason i will not exhibit this picture is that i am afraid that i have shown in it the secret of my own soul." lord henry laughed. "and what is that?" he asked. "i will tell you," said hallward; but an expression of perplexity came over his face. "i am all expectation, basil," continued his companion, glancing at him. "oh, there is really very little to tell, harry," answered the painter; "and i am afraid you will hardly understand it. perhaps you will hardly believe it." lord henry smiled, and leaning down, plucked a pink-petalled daisy from the grass and examined it. "i am quite sure i shall understand it," he replied, gazing intently at the little golden, white-feathered disk, "and as for believing things, i can believe anything, provided that it is quite incredible." the wind shook some blossoms from the trees, and the heavy lilac-blooms, with their clustering stars, moved to and fro in the languid air. a grasshopper began to chirrup by the wall, and like a blue thread a long thin dragon-fly floated past on its brown gauze wings. lord henry felt as if he could hear basil hallward's heart beating, and wondered what was coming. "the story is simply this," said the painter after some time. "two months ago i went to a crush at lady brandon's. you know we poor artists have to show ourselves in society from time to time, just to remind the public that we are not savages. with an evening coat and a white tie, as you told me once, anybody, even a stock-broker, can gain a reputation for being civilized. well, after i had been in the room about ten minutes, talking to huge overdressed dowagers and tedious academicians, i suddenly became conscious that some one was looking at me. i turned half-way round and saw dorian gray for the first time. when our eyes met, i felt that i was growing pale. a curious sensation of terror came over me. i knew that i had come face to face with some one whose mere personality was so fascinating that, if i allowed it to do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art itself. i did not want any external influence in my life. you know yourself, harry, how independent i am by nature. i have always been my own master; had at least always been so, till i met dorian gray. then--but i don't know how to explain it to you. something seemed to tell me that i was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life. i had a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys and exquisite sorrows. i grew afraid and turned to quit the room. it was not conscience that made me do so: it was a sort of cowardice. i take no credit to myself for trying to escape." "conscience and cowardice are really the same things, basil. conscience is the trade-name of the firm. that is all." "i don't believe that, harry, and i don't believe you do either. however, whatever was my motive--and it may have been pride, for i used to be very proud--i certainly struggled to the door. there, of course, i stumbled against lady brandon. 'you are not going to run away so soon, mr. hallward?' she screamed out. you know her curiously shrill voice?" "yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty," said lord henry, pulling the daisy to bits with his long nervous fingers. "i could not get rid of her. she brought me up to royalties, and people with stars and garters, and elderly ladies with gigantic tiaras and parrot noses. she spoke of me as her dearest friend. i had only met her once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me. i believe some picture of mine had made a great success at the time, at least had been chattered about in the penny newspapers, which is the nineteenth-century standard of immortality. suddenly i found myself face to face with the young man whose personality had so strangely stirred me. we were quite close, almost touching. our eyes met again. it was reckless of me, but i asked lady brandon to introduce me to him. perhaps it was not so reckless, after all. it was simply inevitable. we would have spoken to each other without any introduction. i am sure of that. dorian told me so afterwards. he, too, felt that we were destined to know each other." "and how did lady brandon describe this wonderful young man?" asked his companion. "i know she goes in for giving a rapid _precis_ of all her guests. i remember her bringing me up to a truculent and red-faced old gentleman covered all over with orders and ribbons, and hissing into my ear, in a tragic whisper which must have been perfectly audible to everybody in the room, the most astounding details. i simply fled. i like to find out people for myself. but lady brandon treats her guests exactly as an auctioneer treats his goods. she either explains them entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants to know." "poor lady brandon! you are hard on her, harry!" said hallward listlessly. "my dear fellow, she tried to found a _salon_, and only succeeded in opening a restaurant. how could i admire her? but tell me, what did she say about mr. dorian gray?" "oh, something like, 'charming boy--poor dear mother and i absolutely inseparable. quite forget what he does--afraid he--doesn't do anything--oh, yes, plays the piano--or is it the violin, dear mr. gray?' neither of us could help laughing, and we became friends at once." "laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far the best ending for one," said the young lord, plucking another daisy. hallward shook his head. "you don't understand what friendship is, harry," he murmured--"or what enmity is, for that matter. you like every one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one." "how horribly unjust of you!" cried lord henry, tilting his hat back and looking up at the little clouds that, like ravelled skeins of glossy white silk, were drifting across the hollowed turquoise of the summer sky. "yes; horribly unjust of you. i make a great difference between people. i choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good intellects. a man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies. i have not got one who is a fool. they are all men of some intellectual power, and consequently they all appreciate me. is that very vain of me? i think it is rather vain." "i should think it was, harry. but according to your category i must be merely an acquaintance." "my dear old basil, you are much more than an acquaintance." "and much less than a friend. a sort of brother, i suppose?" "oh, brothers! i don't care for brothers. my elder brother won't die, and my younger brothers seem never to do anything else." "harry!" exclaimed hallward, frowning. "my dear fellow, i am not quite serious. but i can't help detesting my relations. i suppose it comes from the fact that none of us can stand other people having the same faults as ourselves. i quite sympathize with the rage of the english democracy against what they call the vices of the upper orders. the masses feel that drunkenness, stupidity, and immorality should be their own special property, and that if any one of us makes an ass of himself, he is poaching on their preserves. when poor southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite magnificent. and yet i don't suppose that ten per cent of the proletariat live correctly." "i don't agree with a single word that you have said, and, what is more, harry, i feel sure you don't either." lord henry stroked his pointed brown beard and tapped the toe of his patent-leather boot with a tasselled ebony cane. "how english you are basil! that is the second time you have made that observation. if one puts forward an idea to a true englishman--always a rash thing to do--he never dreams of considering whether the idea is right or wrong. the only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it oneself. now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with the sincerity of the man who expresses it. indeed, the probabilities are that the more insincere the man is, the more purely intellectual will the idea be, as in that case it will not be coloured by either his wants, his desires, or his prejudices. however, i don't propose to discuss politics, sociology, or metaphysics with you. i like persons better than principles, and i like persons with no principles better than anything else in the world. tell me more about mr. dorian gray. how often do you see him?" "every day. i couldn't be happy if i didn't see him every day. he is absolutely necessary to me." "how extraordinary! i thought you would never care for anything but your art." "he is all my art to me now," said the painter gravely. "i sometimes think, harry, that there are only two eras of any importance in the world's history. the first is the appearance of a new medium for art, and the second is the appearance of a new personality for art also. what the invention of oil-painting was to the venetians, the face of antinous was to late greek sculpture, and the face of dorian gray will some day be to me. it is not merely that i paint from him, draw from him, sketch from him. of course, i have done all that. but he is much more to me than a model or a sitter. i won't tell you that i am dissatisfied with what i have done of him, or that his beauty is such that art cannot express it. there is nothing that art cannot express, and i know that the work i have done, since i met dorian gray, is good work, is the best work of my life. but in some curious way--i wonder will you understand me?--his personality has suggested to me an entirely new manner in art, an entirely new mode of style. i see things differently, i think of them differently. i can now recreate life in a way that was hidden from me before. 'a dream of form in days of thought'--who is it who says that? i forget; but it is what dorian gray has been to me. the merely visible presence of this lad--for he seems to me little more than a lad, though he is really over twenty--his merely visible presence--ah! i wonder can you realize all that that means? unconsciously he defines for me the lines of a fresh school, a school that is to have in it all the passion of the romantic spirit, all the perfection of the spirit that is greek. the harmony of soul and body--how much that is! we in our madness have separated the two, and have invented a realism that is vulgar, an ideality that is void. harry! if you only knew what dorian gray is to me! you remember that landscape of mine, for which agnew offered me such a huge price but which i would not part with? it is one of the best things i have ever done. and why is it so? because, while i was painting it, dorian gray sat beside me. some subtle influence passed from him to me, and for the first time in my life i saw in the plain woodland the wonder i had always looked for and always missed." "basil, this is extraordinary! i must see dorian gray." hallward got up from the seat and walked up and down the garden. after some time he came back. "harry," he said, "dorian gray is to me simply a motive in art. you might see nothing in him. i see everything in him. he is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there. he is a suggestion, as i have said, of a new manner. i find him in the curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain colours. that is all." "then why won't you exhibit his portrait?" asked lord henry. "because, without intending it, i have put into it some expression of all this curious artistic idolatry, of which, of course, i have never cared to speak to him. he knows nothing about it. he shall never know anything about it. but the world might guess it, and i will not bare my soul to their shallow prying eyes. my heart shall never be put under their microscope. there is too much of myself in the thing, harry--too much of myself!" "poets are not so scrupulous as you are. they know how useful passion is for publication. nowadays a broken heart will run to many editions." "i hate them for it," cried hallward. "an artist should create beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them. we live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of autobiography. we have lost the abstract sense of beauty. some day i will show the world what it is; and for that reason the world shall never see my portrait of dorian gray." "i think you are wrong, basil, but i won't argue with you. it is only the intellectually lost who ever argue. tell me, is dorian gray very fond of you?" the painter considered for a few moments. "he likes me," he answered after a pause; "i know he likes me. of course i flatter him dreadfully. i find a strange pleasure in saying things to him that i know i shall be sorry for having said. as a rule, he is charming to me, and we sit in the studio and talk of a thousand things. now and then, however, he is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me pain. then i feel, harry, that i have given away my whole soul to some one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer's day." "days in summer, basil, are apt to linger," murmured lord henry. "perhaps you will tire sooner than he will. it is a sad thing to think of, but there is no doubt that genius lasts longer than beauty. that accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate ourselves. in the wild struggle for existence, we want to have something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place. the thoroughly well-informed man--that is the modern ideal. and the mind of the thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing. it is like a _bric-a-brac_ shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced above its proper value. i think you will tire first, all the same. some day you will look at your friend, and he will seem to you to be a little out of drawing, or you won't like his tone of colour, or something. you will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and seriously think that he has behaved very badly to you. the next time he calls, you will be perfectly cold and indifferent. it will be a great pity, for it will alter you. what you have told me is quite a romance, a romance of art one might call it, and the worst of having a romance of any kind is that it leaves one so unromantic." "harry, don't talk like that. as long as i live, the personality of dorian gray will dominate me. you can't feel what i feel. you change too often." "ah, my dear basil, that is exactly why i can feel it. those who are faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the faithless who know love's tragedies." and lord henry struck a light on a dainty silver case and began to smoke a cigarette with a self-conscious and satisfied air, as if he had summed up the world in a phrase. there was a rustle of chirruping sparrows in the green lacquer leaves of the ivy, and the blue cloud-shadows chased themselves across the grass like swallows. how pleasant it was in the garden! and how delightful other people's emotions were!--much more delightful than their ideas, it seemed to him. one's own soul, and the passions of one's friends--those were the fascinating things in life. he pictured to himself with silent amusement the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long with basil hallward. had he gone to his aunt's, he would have been sure to have met lord goodbody there, and the whole conversation would have been about the feeding of the poor and the necessity for model lodging-houses. each class would have preached the importance of those virtues, for whose exercise there was no necessity in their own lives. the rich would have spoken on the value of thrift, and the idle grown eloquent over the dignity of labour. it was charming to have escaped all that! as he thought of his aunt, an idea seemed to strike him. he turned to hallward and said, "my dear fellow, i have just remembered." "remembered what, harry?" "where i heard the name of dorian gray." "where was it?" asked hallward, with a slight frown. "don't look so angry, basil. it was at my aunt, lady agatha's. she told me she had discovered a wonderful young man who was going to help her in the east end, and that his name was dorian gray. i am bound to state that she never told me he was good-looking. women have no appreciation of good looks; at least, good women have not. she said that he was very earnest and had a beautiful nature. i at once pictured to myself a creature with spectacles and lank hair, horribly freckled, and tramping about on huge feet. i wish i had known it was your friend." "i am very glad you didn't, harry." "why?" "i don't want you to meet him." "you don't want me to meet him?" "no." "mr. dorian gray is in the studio, sir," said the butler, coming into the garden. "you must introduce me now," cried lord henry, laughing. the painter turned to his servant, who stood blinking in the sunlight. "ask mr. gray to wait, parker: i shall be in in a few moments." the man bowed and went up the walk. then he looked at lord henry. "dorian gray is my dearest friend," he said. "he has a simple and a beautiful nature. your aunt was quite right in what she said of him. don't spoil him. don't try to influence him. your influence would be bad. the world is wide, and has many marvellous people in it. don't take away from me the one person who gives to my art whatever charm it possesses: my life as an artist depends on him. mind, harry, i trust you." he spoke very slowly, and the words seemed wrung out of him almost against his will. "what nonsense you talk!" said lord henry, smiling, and taking hallward by the arm, he almost led him into the house. chapter <UNK> as they entered they saw dorian gray. he was seated at the piano, with his back to them, turning over the pages of a volume of schumann's "forest scenes." "you must lend me these, basil," he cried. "i want to learn them. they are perfectly charming." "that entirely depends on how you sit to-day, dorian." "oh, i am tired of sitting, and i don't want a life-sized portrait of myself," answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool in a wilful, petulant manner. when he caught sight of lord henry, a faint blush coloured his cheeks for a moment, and he started up. "i beg your pardon, basil, but i didn't know you had any one with you." "this is lord henry wotton, dorian, an old oxford friend of mine. i have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you have spoiled everything." "you have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, mr. gray," said lord henry, stepping forward and extending his hand. "my aunt has often spoken to me about you. you are one of her favourites, and, i am afraid, one of her victims also." "i am in lady agatha's black books at present," answered dorian with a funny look of penitence. "i promised to go to a club in whitechapel with her last tuesday, and i really forgot all about it. we were to have played a duet together--three duets, i believe. i don't know what she will say to me. i am far too frightened to call." "oh, i will make your peace with my aunt. she is quite devoted to you. and i don't think it really matters about your not being there. the audience probably thought it was a duet. when aunt agatha sits down to the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two people." "that is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me," answered dorian, laughing. lord henry looked at him. yes, he was certainly wonderfully handsome, with his finely curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes, his crisp gold hair. there was something in his face that made one trust him at once. all the candour of youth was there, as well as all youth's passionate purity. one felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the world. no wonder basil hallward worshipped him. "you are too charming to go in for philanthropy, mr. gray--far too charming." and lord henry flung himself down on the divan and opened his cigarette-case. the painter had been busy mixing his colours and getting his brushes ready. he was looking worried, and when he heard lord henry's last remark, he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and then said, "harry, i want to finish this picture to-day. would you think it awfully rude of me if i asked you to go away?" lord henry smiled and looked at dorian gray. "am i to go, mr. gray?" he asked. "oh, please don't, lord henry. i see that basil is in one of his sulky moods, and i can't bear him when he sulks. besides, i want you to tell me why i should not go in for philanthropy." "i don't know that i shall tell you that, mr. gray. it is so tedious a subject that one would have to talk seriously about it. but i certainly shall not run away, now that you have asked me to stop. you don't really mind, basil, do you? you have often told me that you liked your sitters to have some one to chat to." hallward bit his lip. "if dorian wishes it, of course you must stay. dorian's whims are laws to everybody, except himself." lord henry took up his hat and gloves. "you are very pressing, basil, but i am afraid i must go. i have promised to meet a man at the orleans. good-bye, mr. gray. come and see me some afternoon in curzon street. i am nearly always at home at five o'clock. write to me when you are coming. i should be sorry to miss you." "basil," cried dorian gray, "if lord henry wotton goes, i shall go, too. you never open your lips while you are painting, and it is horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant. ask him to stay. i insist upon it." "stay, harry, to oblige dorian, and to oblige me," said hallward, gazing intently at his picture. "it is quite true, i never talk when i am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious for my unfortunate sitters. i beg you to stay." "but what about my man at the orleans?" the painter laughed. "i don't think there will be any difficulty about that. sit down again, harry. and now, dorian, get up on the platform, and don't move about too much, or pay any attention to what lord henry says. he has a very bad influence over all his friends, with the single exception of myself." dorian gray stepped up on the dais with the air of a young greek martyr, and made a little _moue_ of discontent to lord henry, to whom he had rather taken a fancy. he was so unlike basil. they made a delightful contrast. and he had such a beautiful voice. after a few moments he said to him, "have you really a very bad influence, lord henry? as bad as basil says?" "there is no such thing as a good influence, mr. gray. all influence is immoral--immoral from the scientific point of view." "why?" "because to influence a person is to give him one's own soul. he does not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. his virtues are not real to him. his sins, if there are such things as sins, are borrowed. he becomes an echo of some one else's music, an actor of a part that has not been written for him. the aim of life is self-development. to realize one's nature perfectly--that is what each of us is here for. people are afraid of themselves, nowadays. they have forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one's self. of course, they are charitable. they feed the hungry and clothe the beggar. but their own souls starve, and are naked. courage has gone out of our race. perhaps we never really had it. the terror of society, which is the basis of morals, the terror of god, which is the secret of religion--these are the two things that govern us. and yet--" "just turn your head a little more to the right, dorian, like a good boy," said the painter, deep in his work and conscious only that a look had come into the lad's face that he had never seen there before. "and yet," continued lord henry, in his low, musical voice, and with that graceful wave of the hand that was always so characteristic of him, and that he had even in his eton days, "i believe that if one man were to live out his life fully and completely, were to give form to every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream--i believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we would forget all the maladies of mediaevalism, and return to the hellenic ideal--to something finer, richer than the hellenic ideal, it may be. but the bravest man amongst us is afraid of himself. the mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial that mars our lives. we are punished for our refusals. every impulse that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us. the body sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of purification. nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure, or the luxury of a regret. the only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful. it has been said that the great events of the world take place in the brain. it is in the brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place also. you, mr. gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid, thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame--" "stop!" faltered dorian gray, "stop! you bewilder me. i don't know what to say. there is some answer to you, but i cannot find it. don't speak. let me think. or, rather, let me try not to think." for nearly ten minutes he stood there, motionless, with parted lips and eyes strangely bright. he was dimly conscious that entirely fresh influences were at work within him. yet they seemed to him to have come really from himself. the few words that basil's friend had said to him--words spoken by chance, no doubt, and with wilful paradox in them--had touched some secret chord that had never been touched before, but that he felt was now vibrating and throbbing to curious pulses. music had stirred him like that. music had troubled him many times. but music was not articulate. it was not a new world, but rather another chaos, that it created in us. words! mere words! how terrible they were! how clear, and vivid, and cruel! one could not escape from them. and yet what a subtle magic there was in them! they seemed to be able to give a plastic form to formless things, and to have a music of their own as sweet as that of viol or of lute. mere words! was there anything so real as words? yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not understood. he understood them now. life suddenly became fiery-coloured to him. it seemed to him that he had been walking in fire. why had he not known it? with his subtle smile, lord henry watched him. he knew the precise psychological moment when to say nothing. he felt intensely interested. he was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced, and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he wondered whether dorian gray was passing through a similar experience. he had merely shot an arrow into the air. had it hit the mark? how fascinating the lad was! hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate comes only from strength. he was unconscious of the silence. "basil, i am tired of standing," cried dorian gray suddenly. "i must go out and sit in the garden. the air is stifling here." "my dear fellow, i am so sorry. when i am painting, i can't think of anything else. but you never sat better. you were perfectly still. and i have caught the effect i wanted--the half-parted lips and the bright look in the eyes. i don't know what harry has been saying to you, but he has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression. i suppose he has been paying you compliments. you mustn't believe a word that he says." "he has certainly not been paying me compliments. perhaps that is the reason that i don't believe anything he has told me." "you know you believe it all," said lord henry, looking at him with his dreamy languorous eyes. "i will go out to the garden with you. it is horribly hot in the studio. basil, let us have something iced to drink, something with strawberries in it." "certainly, harry. just touch the bell, and when parker comes i will tell him what you want. i have got to work up this background, so i will join you later on. don't keep dorian too long. i have never been in better form for painting than i am to-day. this is going to be my masterpiece. it is my masterpiece as it stands." lord henry went out to the garden and found dorian gray burying his face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in their perfume as if it had been wine. he came close to him and put his hand upon his shoulder. "you are quite right to do that," he murmured. "nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul." the lad started and drew back. he was bareheaded, and the leaves had tossed his rebellious curls and tangled all their gilded threads. there was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are suddenly awakened. his finely chiselled nostrils quivered, and some hidden nerve shook the scarlet of his lips and left them trembling. "yes," continued lord henry, "that is one of the great secrets of life--to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul. you are a wonderful creation. you know more than you think you know, just as you know less than you want to know." dorian gray frowned and turned his head away. he could not help liking the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him. his romantic, olive-coloured face and worn expression interested him. there was something in his low languid voice that was absolutely fascinating. his cool, white, flowerlike hands, even, had a curious charm. they moved, as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a language of their own. but he felt afraid of him, and ashamed of being afraid. why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to himself? he had known basil hallward for months, but the friendship between them had never altered him. suddenly there had come some one across his life who seemed to have disclosed to him life's mystery. and, yet, what was there to be afraid of? he was not a schoolboy or a girl. it was absurd to be frightened. "let us go and sit in the shade," said lord henry. "parker has brought out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare, you will be quite spoiled, and basil will never paint you again. you really must not allow yourself to become sunburnt. it would be unbecoming." "what can it matter?" cried dorian gray, laughing, as he sat down on the seat at the end of the garden. "it should matter everything to you, mr. gray." "why?" "because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing worth having." "i don't feel that, lord henry." "no, you don't feel it now. some day, when you are old and wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will feel it terribly. now, wherever you go, you charm the world. will it always be so? ... you have a wonderfully beautiful face, mr. gray. don't frown. you have. and beauty is a form of genius--is higher, indeed, than genius, as it needs no explanation. it is of the great facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon. it cannot be questioned. it has its divine right of sovereignty. it makes princes of those who have it. you smile? ah! when you have lost it you won't smile.... people say sometimes that beauty is only superficial. that may be so, but at least it is not so superficial as thought is. to me, beauty is the wonder of wonders. it is only shallow people who do not judge by appearances. the true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible.... yes, mr. gray, the gods have been good to you. but what the gods give they quickly take away. you have only a few years in which to live really, perfectly, and fully. when your youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than defeats. every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something dreadful. time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your roses. you will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. you will suffer horribly.... ah! realize your youth while you have it. don't squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the ignorant, the common, and the vulgar. these are the sickly aims, the false ideals, of our age. live! live the wonderful life that is in you! let nothing be lost upon you. be always searching for new sensations. be afraid of nothing.... a new hedonism--that is what our century wants. you might be its visible symbol. with your personality there is nothing you could not do. the world belongs to you for a season.... the moment i met you i saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are, of what you really might be. there was so much in you that charmed me that i felt i must tell you something about yourself. i thought how tragic it would be if you were wasted. for there is such a little time that your youth will last--such a little time. the common hill-flowers wither, but they blossom again. the laburnum will be as yellow next june as it is now. in a month there will be purple stars on the clematis, and year after year the green night of its leaves will hold its purple stars. but we never get back our youth. the pulse of joy that beats in us at twenty becomes sluggish. our limbs fail, our senses rot. we degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the passions of which we were too much afraid, and the exquisite temptations that we had not the courage to yield to. youth! youth! there is absolutely nothing in the world but youth!" dorian gray listened, open-eyed and wondering. the spray of lilac fell from his hand upon the gravel. a furry bee came and buzzed round it for a moment. then it began to scramble all over the oval stellated globe of the tiny blossoms. he watched it with that strange interest in trivial things that we try to develop when things of high import make us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion for which we cannot find expression, or when some thought that terrifies us lays sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield. after a time the bee flew away. he saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a tyrian convolvulus. the flower seemed to quiver, and then swayed gently to and fro. suddenly the painter appeared at the door of the studio and made staccato signs for them to come in. they turned to each other and smiled. "i am waiting," he cried. "do come in. the light is quite perfect, and you can bring your drinks." they rose up and sauntered down the walk together. two green-and-white butterflies fluttered past them, and in the pear-tree at the corner of the garden a thrush began to sing. "you are glad you have met me, mr. gray," said lord henry, looking at him. "yes, i am glad now. i wonder shall i always be glad?" "always! that is a dreadful word. it makes me shudder when i hear it. women are so fond of using it. they spoil every romance by trying to make it last for ever. it is a meaningless word, too. the only difference between a caprice and a lifelong passion is that the caprice lasts a little longer." as they entered the studio, dorian gray put his hand upon lord henry's arm. "in that case, let our friendship be a caprice," he murmured, flushing at his own boldness, then stepped up on the platform and resumed his pose. lord henry flung himself into a large wicker arm-chair and watched him. the sweep and dash of the brush on the canvas made the only sound that broke the stillness, except when, now and then, hallward stepped back to look at his work from a distance. in the slanting beams that streamed through the open doorway the dust danced and was golden. the heavy scent of the roses seemed to brood over everything. after about a quarter of an hour hallward stopped painting, looked for a long time at dorian gray, and then for a long time at the picture, biting the end of one of his huge brushes and frowning. "it is quite finished," he cried at last, and stooping down he wrote his name in long vermilion letters on the left-hand corner of the canvas. lord henry came over and examined the picture. it was certainly a wonderful work of art, and a wonderful likeness as well. "my dear fellow, i congratulate you most warmly," he said. "it is the finest portrait of modern times. mr. gray, come over and look at yourself." the lad started, as if awakened from some dream. "is it really finished?" he murmured, stepping down from the platform. "quite finished," said the painter. "and you have sat splendidly to-day. i am awfully obliged to you." "that is entirely due to me," broke in lord henry. "isn't it, mr. gray?" dorian made no answer, but passed listlessly in front of his picture and turned towards it. when he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks flushed for a moment with pleasure. a look of joy came into his eyes, as if he had recognized himself for the first time. he stood there motionless and in wonder, dimly conscious that hallward was speaking to him, but not catching the meaning of his words. the sense of his own beauty came on him like a revelation. he had never felt it before. basil hallward's compliments had seemed to him to be merely the charming exaggeration of friendship. he had listened to them, laughed at them, forgotten them. they had not influenced his nature. then had come lord henry wotton with his strange panegyric on youth, his terrible warning of its brevity. that had stirred him at the time, and now, as he stood gazing at the shadow of his own loveliness, the full reality of the description flashed across him. yes, there would be a day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and colourless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed. the scarlet would pass away from his lips and the gold steal from his hair. the life that was to make his soul would mar his body. he would become dreadful, hideous, and uncouth. as he thought of it, a sharp pang of pain struck through him like a knife and made each delicate fibre of his nature quiver. his eyes deepened into amethyst, and across them came a mist of tears. he felt as if a hand of ice had been laid upon his heart. "don't you like it?" cried hallward at last, stung a little by the lad's silence, not understanding what it meant. "of course he likes it," said lord henry. "who wouldn't like it? it is one of the greatest things in modern art. i will give you anything you like to ask for it. i must have it." "it is not my property, harry." "whose property is it?" "dorian's, of course," answered the painter. "he is a very lucky fellow." "how sad it is!" murmured dorian gray with his eyes still fixed upon his own portrait. "how sad it is! i shall grow old, and horrible, and dreadful. but this picture will remain always young. it will never be older than this particular day of june.... if it were only the other way! if it were i who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old! for that--for that--i would give everything! yes, there is nothing in the whole world i would not give! i would give my soul for that!" "you would hardly care for such an arrangement, basil," cried lord henry, laughing. "it would be rather hard lines on your work." "i should object very strongly, harry," said hallward. dorian gray turned and looked at him. "i believe you would, basil. you like your art better than your friends. i am no more to you than a green bronze figure. hardly as much, i dare say." the painter stared in amazement. it was so unlike dorian to speak like that. what had happened? he seemed quite angry. his face was flushed and his cheeks burning. "yes," he continued, "i am less to you than your ivory hermes or your silver faun. you will like them always. how long will you like me? till i have my first wrinkle, i suppose. i know, now, that when one loses one's good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything. your picture has taught me that. lord henry wotton is perfectly right. youth is the only thing worth having. when i find that i am growing old, i shall kill myself." hallward turned pale and caught his hand. "dorian! dorian!" he cried, "don't talk like that. i have never had such a friend as you, and i shall never have such another. you are not jealous of material things, are you?--you who are finer than any of them!" "i am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. i am jealous of the portrait you have painted of me. why should it keep what i must lose? every moment that passes takes something from me and gives something to it. oh, if it were only the other way! if the picture could change, and i could be always what i am now! why did you paint it? it will mock me some day--mock me horribly!" the hot tears welled into his eyes; he tore his hand away and, flinging himself on the divan, he buried his face in the cushions, as though he was praying. "this is your doing, harry," said the painter bitterly. lord henry shrugged his shoulders. "it is the real dorian gray--that is all." "it is not." "if it is not, what have i to do with it?" "you should have gone away when i asked you," he muttered. "i stayed when you asked me," was lord henry's answer. "harry, i can't quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work i have ever done, and i will destroy it. what is it but canvas and colour? i will not let it come across our three lives and mar them." dorian gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and with pallid face and tear-stained eyes, looked at him as he walked over to the deal painting-table that was set beneath the high curtained window. what was he doing there? his fingers were straying about among the litter of tin tubes and dry brushes, seeking for something. yes, it was for the long palette-knife, with its thin blade of lithe steel. he had found it at last. he was going to rip up the canvas. with a stifled sob the lad leaped from the couch, and, rushing over to hallward, tore the knife out of his hand, and flung it to the end of the studio. "don't, basil, don't!" he cried. "it would be murder!" "i am glad you appreciate my work at last, dorian," said the painter coldly when he had recovered from his surprise. "i never thought you would." "appreciate it? i am in love with it, basil. it is part of myself. i feel that." "well, as soon as you are dry, you shall be varnished, and framed, and sent home. then you can do what you like with yourself." and he walked across the room and rang the bell for tea. "you will have tea, of course, dorian? and so will you, harry? or do you object to such simple pleasures?" "i adore simple pleasures," said lord henry. "they are the last refuge of the complex. but i don't like scenes, except on the stage. what absurd fellows you are, both of you! i wonder who it was defined man as a rational animal. it was the most premature definition ever given. man is many things, but he is not rational. i am glad he is not, after all--though i wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture. you had much better let me have it, basil. this silly boy doesn't really want it, and i really do." "if you let any one have it but me, basil, i shall never forgive you!" cried dorian gray; "and i don't allow people to call me a silly boy." "you know the picture is yours, dorian. i gave it to you before it existed." "and you know you have been a little silly, mr. gray, and that you don't really object to being reminded that you are extremely young." "i should have objected very strongly this morning, lord henry." "ah! this morning! you have lived since then." there came a knock at the door, and the butler entered with a laden tea-tray and set it down upon a small japanese table. there was a rattle of cups and saucers and the hissing of a fluted georgian urn. two globe-shaped china dishes were brought in by a page. dorian gray went over and poured out the tea. the two men sauntered languidly to the table and examined what was under the covers. "let us go to the theatre to-night," said lord henry. "there is sure to be something on, somewhere. i have promised to dine at white's, but it is only with an old friend, so i can send him a wire to say that i am ill, or that i am prevented from coming in consequence of a subsequent engagement. i think that would be a rather nice excuse: it would have all the surprise of candour." "it is such a bore putting on one's dress-clothes," muttered hallward. "and, when one has them on, they are so horrid." "yes," answered lord henry dreamily, "the costume of the nineteenth century is detestable. it is so sombre, so depressing. sin is the only real colour-element left in modern life." "you really must not say things like that before dorian, harry." "before which dorian? the one who is pouring out tea for us, or the one in the picture?" "before either." "i should like to come to the theatre with you, lord henry," said the lad. "then you shall come; and you will come, too, basil, won't you?" "i can't, really. i would sooner not. i have a lot of work to do." "well, then, you and i will go alone, mr. gray." "i should like that awfully." the painter bit his lip and walked over, cup in hand, to the picture. "i shall stay with the real dorian," he said, sadly. "is it the real dorian?" cried the original of the portrait, strolling across to him. "am i really like that?" "yes; you are just like that." "how wonderful, basil!" "at least you are like it in appearance. but it will never alter," sighed hallward. "that is something." "what a fuss people make about fidelity!" exclaimed lord henry. "why, even in love it is purely a question for physiology. it has nothing to do with our own will. young men want to be faithful, and are not; old men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say." "don't go to the theatre to-night, dorian," said hallward. "stop and dine with me." "i can't, basil." "why?" "because i have promised lord henry wotton to go with him." "he won't like you the better for keeping your promises. he always breaks his own. i beg you not to go." dorian gray laughed and shook his head. "i entreat you." the lad hesitated, and looked over at lord henry, who was watching them from the tea-table with an amused smile. "i must go, basil," he answered. "very well," said hallward, and he went over and laid down his cup on the tray. "it is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better lose no time. good-bye, harry. good-bye, dorian. come and see me soon. come to-morrow." "certainly." "you won't forget?" "no, of course not," cried dorian. "and ... harry!" "yes, basil?" "remember what i asked you, when we were in the garden this morning." "i have forgotten it." "i trust you." "i wish i could trust myself," said lord henry, laughing. "come, mr. gray, my hansom is outside, and i can drop you at your own place. good-bye, basil. it has been a most interesting afternoon." as the door closed behind them, the painter flung himself down on a sofa, and a look of pain came into his face. chapter <UNK> at half-past twelve next day lord henry wotton strolled from curzon street over to the albany to call on his uncle, lord fermor, a genial if somewhat rough-mannered old bachelor, whom the outside world called selfish because it derived no particular benefit from him, but who was considered generous by society as he fed the people who amused him. his father had been our ambassador at madrid when isabella was young and prim unthought of, but had retired from the diplomatic service in a capricious moment of annoyance on not being offered the embassy at paris, a post to which he considered that he was fully entitled by reason of his birth, his indolence, the good english of his dispatches, and his inordinate passion for pleasure. the son, who had been his father's secretary, had resigned along with his chief, somewhat foolishly as was thought at the time, and on succeeding some months later to the title, had set himself to the serious study of the great aristocratic art of doing absolutely nothing. he had two large town houses, but preferred to live in chambers as it was less trouble, and took most of his meals at his club. he paid some attention to the management of his collieries in the midland counties, excusing himself for this taint of industry on the ground that the one advantage of having coal was that it enabled a gentleman to afford the decency of burning wood on his own hearth. in politics he was a tory, except when the tories were in office, during which period he roundly abused them for being a pack of radicals. he was a hero to his valet, who bullied him, and a terror to most of his relations, whom he bullied in turn. only england could have produced him, and he always said that the country was going to the dogs. his principles were out of date, but there was a good deal to be said for his prejudices. when lord henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over _the times_. "well, harry," said the old gentleman, "what brings you out so early? i thought you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till five." "pure family affection, i assure you, uncle george. i want to get something out of you." "money, i suppose," said lord fermor, making a wry face. "well, sit down and tell me all about it. young people, nowadays, imagine that money is everything." "yes," murmured lord henry, settling his button-hole in his coat; "and when they grow older they know it. but i don't want money. it is only people who pay their bills who want that, uncle george, and i never pay mine. credit is the capital of a younger son, and one lives charmingly upon it. besides, i always deal with dartmoor's tradesmen, and consequently they never bother me. what i want is information: not useful information, of course; useless information." "well, i can tell you anything that is in an english blue book, harry, although those fellows nowadays write a lot of nonsense. when i was in the diplomatic, things were much better. but i hear they let them in now by examination. what can you expect? examinations, sir, are pure humbug from beginning to end. if a man is a gentleman, he knows quite enough, and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for him." "mr. dorian gray does not belong to blue books, uncle george," said lord henry languidly. "mr. dorian gray? who is he?" asked lord fermor, knitting his bushy white eyebrows. "that is what i have come to learn, uncle george. or rather, i know who he is. he is the last lord kelso's grandson. his mother was a devereux, lady margaret devereux. i want you to tell me about his mother. what was she like? whom did she marry? you have known nearly everybody in your time, so you might have known her. i am very much interested in mr. gray at present. i have only just met him." "kelso's grandson!" echoed the old gentleman. "kelso's grandson! ... of course.... i knew his mother intimately. i believe i was at her christening. she was an extraordinarily beautiful girl, margaret devereux, and made all the men frantic by running away with a penniless young fellow--a mere nobody, sir, a subaltern in a foot regiment, or something of that kind. certainly. i remember the whole thing as if it happened yesterday. the poor chap was killed in a duel at spa a few months after the marriage. there was an ugly story about it. they said kelso got some rascally adventurer, some belgian brute, to insult his son-in-law in public--paid him, sir, to do it, paid him--and that the fellow spitted his man as if he had been a pigeon. the thing was hushed up, but, egad, kelso ate his chop alone at the club for some time afterwards. he brought his daughter back with him, i was told, and she never spoke to him again. oh, yes; it was a bad business. the girl died, too, died within a year. so she left a son, did she? i had forgotten that. what sort of boy is he? if he is like his mother, he must be a good-looking chap." "he is very good-looking," assented lord henry. "i hope he will fall into proper hands," continued the old man. "he should have a pot of money waiting for him if kelso did the right thing by him. his mother had money, too. all the selby property came to her, through her grandfather. her grandfather hated kelso, thought him a mean dog. he was, too. came to madrid once when i was there. egad, i was ashamed of him. the queen used to ask me about the english noble who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. they made quite a story of it. i didn't dare show my face at court for a month. i hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies." "i don't know," answered lord henry. "i fancy that the boy will be well off. he is not of age yet. he has selby, i know. he told me so. and ... his mother was very beautiful?" "margaret devereux was one of the loveliest creatures i ever saw, harry. what on earth induced her to behave as she did, i never could understand. she could have married anybody she chose. carlington was mad after her. she was romantic, though. all the women of that family were. the men were a poor lot, but, egad! the women were wonderful. carlington went on his knees to her. told me so himself. she laughed at him, and there wasn't a girl in london at the time who wasn't after him. and by the way, harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this humbug your father tells me about dartmoor wanting to marry an american? ain't english girls good enough for him?" "it is rather fashionable to marry americans just now, uncle george." "i'll back english women against the world, harry," said lord fermor, striking the table with his fist. "the betting is on the americans." "they don't last, i am told," muttered his uncle. "a long engagement exhausts them, but they are capital at a steeplechase. they take things flying. i don't think dartmoor has a chance." "who are her people?" grumbled the old gentleman. "has she got any?" lord henry shook his head. "american girls are as clever at concealing their parents, as english women are at concealing their past," he said, rising to go. "they are pork-packers, i suppose?" "i hope so, uncle george, for dartmoor's sake. i am told that pork-packing is the most lucrative profession in america, after politics." "is she pretty?" "she behaves as if she was beautiful. most american women do. it is the secret of their charm." "why can't these american women stay in their own country? they are always telling us that it is the paradise for women." "it is. that is the reason why, like eve, they are so excessively anxious to get out of it," said lord henry. "good-bye, uncle george. i shall be late for lunch, if i stop any longer. thanks for giving me the information i wanted. i always like to know everything about my new friends, and nothing about my old ones." "where are you lunching, harry?" "at aunt agatha's. i have asked myself and mr. gray. he is her latest _protege_." "humph! tell your aunt agatha, harry, not to bother me any more with her charity appeals. i am sick of them. why, the good woman thinks that i have nothing to do but to write cheques for her silly fads." "all right, uncle george, i'll tell her, but it won't have any effect. philanthropic people lose all sense of humanity. it is their distinguishing characteristic." the old gentleman growled approvingly and rang the bell for his servant. lord henry passed up the low arcade into burlington street and turned his steps in the direction of berkeley square. so that was the story of dorian gray's parentage. crudely as it had been told to him, it had yet stirred him by its suggestion of a strange, almost modern romance. a beautiful woman risking everything for a mad passion. a few wild weeks of happiness cut short by a hideous, treacherous crime. months of voiceless agony, and then a child born in pain. the mother snatched away by death, the boy left to solitude and the tyranny of an old and loveless man. yes; it was an interesting background. it posed the lad, made him more perfect, as it were. behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something tragic. worlds had to be in travail, that the meanest flower might blow.... and how charming he had been at dinner the night before, as with startled eyes and lips parted in frightened pleasure he had sat opposite to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer rose the wakening wonder of his face. talking to him was like playing upon an exquisite violin. he answered to every touch and thrill of the bow.... there was something terribly enthralling in the exercise of influence. no other activity was like it. to project one's soul into some gracious form, and let it tarry there for a moment; to hear one's own intellectual views echoed back to one with all the added music of passion and youth; to convey one's temperament into another as though it were a subtle fluid or a strange perfume: there was a real joy in that--perhaps the most satisfying joy left to us in an age so limited and vulgar as our own, an age grossly carnal in its pleasures, and grossly common in its aims.... he was a marvellous type, too, this lad, whom by so curious a chance he had met in basil's studio, or could be fashioned into a marvellous type, at any rate. grace was his, and the white purity of boyhood, and beauty such as old greek marbles kept for us. there was nothing that one could not do with him. he could be made a titan or a toy. what a pity it was that such beauty was destined to fade! ... and basil? from a psychological point of view, how interesting he was! the new manner in art, the fresh mode of looking at life, suggested so strangely by the merely visible presence of one who was unconscious of it all; the silent spirit that dwelt in dim woodland, and walked unseen in open field, suddenly showing herself, dryadlike and not afraid, because in his soul who sought for her there had been wakened that wonderful vision to which alone are wonderful things revealed; the mere shapes and patterns of things becoming, as it were, refined, and gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they were themselves patterns of some other and more perfect form whose shadow they made real: how strange it all was! he remembered something like it in history. was it not plato, that artist in thought, who had first analyzed it? was it not buonarotti who had carved it in the coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence? but in our own century it was strange.... yes; he would try to be to dorian gray what, without knowing it, the lad was to the painter who had fashioned the wonderful portrait. he would seek to dominate him--had already, indeed, half done so. he would make that wonderful spirit his own. there was something fascinating in this son of love and death. suddenly he stopped and glanced up at the houses. he found that he had passed his aunt's some distance, and, smiling to himself, turned back. when he entered the somewhat sombre hall, the butler told him that they had gone in to lunch. he gave one of the footmen his hat and stick and passed into the dining-room. "late as usual, harry," cried his aunt, shaking her head at him. he invented a facile excuse, and having taken the vacant seat next to her, looked round to see who was there. dorian bowed to him shyly from the end of the table, a flush of pleasure stealing into his cheek. opposite was the duchess of harley, a lady of admirable good-nature and good temper, much liked by every one who knew her, and of those ample architectural proportions that in women who are not duchesses are described by contemporary historians as stoutness. next to her sat, on her right, sir thomas burdon, a radical member of parliament, who followed his leader in public life and in private life followed the best cooks, dining with the tories and thinking with the liberals, in accordance with a wise and well-known rule. the post on her left was occupied by mr. erskine of treadley, an old gentleman of considerable charm and culture, who had fallen, however, into bad habits of silence, having, as he explained once to lady agatha, said everything that he had to say before he was thirty. his own neighbour was mrs. vandeleur, one of his aunt's oldest friends, a perfect saint amongst women, but so dreadfully dowdy that she reminded one of a badly bound hymn-book. fortunately for him she had on the other side lord faudel, a most intelligent middle-aged mediocrity, as bald as a ministerial statement in the house of commons, with whom she was conversing in that intensely earnest manner which is the one unpardonable error, as he remarked once himself, that all really good people fall into, and from which none of them ever quite escape. "we are talking about poor dartmoor, lord henry," cried the duchess, nodding pleasantly to him across the table. "do you think he will really marry this fascinating young person?" "i believe she has made up her mind to propose to him, duchess." "how dreadful!" exclaimed lady agatha. "really, some one should interfere." "i am told, on excellent authority, that her father keeps an american dry-goods store," said sir thomas burdon, looking supercilious. "my uncle has already suggested pork-packing, sir thomas." "dry-goods! what are american dry-goods?" asked the duchess, raising her large hands in wonder and accentuating the verb. "american novels," answered lord henry, helping himself to some quail. the duchess looked puzzled. "don't mind him, my dear," whispered lady agatha. "he never means anything that he says." "when america was discovered," said the radical member--and he began to give some wearisome facts. like all people who try to exhaust a subject, he exhausted his listeners. the duchess sighed and exercised her privilege of interruption. "i wish to goodness it never had been discovered at all!" she exclaimed. "really, our girls have no chance nowadays. it is most unfair." "perhaps, after all, america never has been discovered," said mr. erskine; "i myself would say that it had merely been detected." "oh! but i have seen specimens of the inhabitants," answered the duchess vaguely. "i must confess that most of them are extremely pretty. and they dress well, too. they get all their dresses in paris. i wish i could afford to do the same." "they say that when good americans die they go to paris," chuckled sir thomas, who had a large wardrobe of humour's cast-off clothes. "really! and where do bad americans go to when they die?" inquired the duchess. "they go to america," murmured lord henry. sir thomas frowned. "i am afraid that your nephew is prejudiced against that great country," he said to lady agatha. "i have travelled all over it in cars provided by the directors, who, in such matters, are extremely civil. i assure you that it is an education to visit it." "but must we really see chicago in order to be educated?" asked mr. erskine plaintively. "i don't feel up to the journey." sir thomas waved his hand. "mr. erskine of treadley has the world on his shelves. we practical men like to see things, not to read about them. the americans are an extremely interesting people. they are absolutely reasonable. i think that is their distinguishing characteristic. yes, mr. erskine, an absolutely reasonable people. i assure you there is no nonsense about the americans." "how dreadful!" cried lord henry. "i can stand brute force, but brute reason is quite unbearable. there is something unfair about its use. it is hitting below the intellect." "i do not understand you," said sir thomas, growing rather red. "i do, lord henry," murmured mr. erskine, with a smile. "paradoxes are all very well in their way...." rejoined the baronet. "was that a paradox?" asked mr. erskine. "i did not think so. perhaps it was. well, the way of paradoxes is the way of truth. to test reality we must see it on the tight rope. when the verities become acrobats, we can judge them." "dear me!" said lady agatha, "how you men argue! i am sure i never can make out what you are talking about. oh! harry, i am quite vexed with you. why do you try to persuade our nice mr. dorian gray to give up the east end? i assure you he would be quite invaluable. they would love his playing." "i want him to play to me," cried lord henry, smiling, and he looked down the table and caught a bright answering glance. "but they are so unhappy in whitechapel," continued lady agatha. "i can sympathize with everything except suffering," said lord henry, shrugging his shoulders. "i cannot sympathize with that. it is too ugly, too horrible, too distressing. there is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain. one should sympathize with the colour, the beauty, the joy of life. the less said about life's sores, the better." "still, the east end is a very important problem," remarked sir thomas with a grave shake of the head. "quite so," answered the young lord. "it is the problem of slavery, and we try to solve it by amusing the slaves." the politician looked at him keenly. "what change do you propose, then?" he asked. lord henry laughed. "i don't desire to change anything in england except the weather," he answered. "i am quite content with philosophic contemplation. but, as the nineteenth century has gone bankrupt through an over-expenditure of sympathy, i would suggest that we should appeal to science to put us straight. the advantage of the emotions is that they lead us astray, and the advantage of science is that it is not emotional." "but we have such grave responsibilities," ventured mrs. vandeleur timidly. "terribly grave," echoed lady agatha. lord henry looked over at mr. erskine. "humanity takes itself too seriously. it is the world's original sin. if the caveman had known how to laugh, history would have been different." "you are really very comforting," warbled the duchess. "i have always felt rather guilty when i came to see your dear aunt, for i take no interest at all in the east end. for the future i shall be able to look her in the face without a blush." "a blush is very becoming, duchess," remarked lord henry. "only when one is young," she answered. "when an old woman like myself blushes, it is a very bad sign. ah! lord henry, i wish you would tell me how to become young again." he thought for a moment. "can you remember any great error that you committed in your early days, duchess?" he asked, looking at her across the table. "a great many, i fear," she cried. "then commit them over again," he said gravely. "to get back one's youth, one has merely to repeat one's follies." "a delightful theory!" she exclaimed. "i must put it into practice." "a dangerous theory!" came from sir thomas's tight lips. lady agatha shook her head, but could not help being amused. mr. erskine listened. "yes," he continued, "that is one of the great secrets of life. nowadays most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes." a laugh ran round the table. he played with the idea and grew wilful; tossed it into the air and transformed it; let it escape and recaptured it; made it iridescent with fancy and winged it with paradox. the praise of folly, as he went on, soared into a philosophy, and philosophy herself became young, and catching the mad music of pleasure, wearing, one might fancy, her wine-stained robe and wreath of ivy, danced like a bacchante over the hills of life, and mocked the slow silenus for being sober. facts fled before her like frightened forest things. her white feet trod the huge press at which wise omar sits, till the seething grape-juice rose round her bare limbs in waves of purple bubbles, or crawled in red foam over the vat's black, dripping, sloping sides. it was an extraordinary improvisation. he felt that the eyes of dorian gray were fixed on him, and the consciousness that amongst his audience there was one whose temperament he wished to fascinate seemed to give his wit keenness and to lend colour to his imagination. he was brilliant, fantastic, irresponsible. he charmed his listeners out of themselves, and they followed his pipe, laughing. dorian gray never took his gaze off him, but sat like one under a spell, smiles chasing each other over his lips and wonder growing grave in his darkening eyes. at last, liveried in the costume of the age, reality entered the room in the shape of a servant to tell the duchess that her carriage was waiting. she wrung her hands in mock despair. "how annoying!" she cried. "i must go. i have to call for my husband at the club, to take him to some absurd meeting at willis's rooms, where he is going to be in the chair. if i am late he is sure to be furious, and i couldn't have a scene in this bonnet. it is far too fragile. a harsh word would ruin it. no, i must go, dear agatha. good-bye, lord henry, you are quite delightful and dreadfully demoralizing. i am sure i don't know what to say about your views. you must come and dine with us some night. tuesday? are you disengaged tuesday?" "for you i would throw over anybody, duchess," said lord henry with a bow. "ah! that is very nice, and very wrong of you," she cried; "so mind you come"; and she swept out of the room, followed by lady agatha and the other ladies. when lord henry had sat down again, mr. erskine moved round, and taking a chair close to him, placed his hand upon his arm. "you talk books away," he said; "why don't you write one?" "i am too fond of reading books to care to write them, mr. erskine. i should like to write a novel certainly, a novel that would be as lovely as a persian carpet and as unreal. but there is no literary public in england for anything except newspapers, primers, and encyclopaedias. of all people in the world the english have the least sense of the beauty of literature." "i fear you are right," answered mr. erskine. "i myself used to have literary ambitions, but i gave them up long ago. and now, my dear young friend, if you will allow me to call you so, may i ask if you really meant all that you said to us at lunch?" "i quite forget what i said," smiled lord henry. "was it all very bad?" "very bad indeed. in fact i consider you extremely dangerous, and if anything happens to our good duchess, we shall all look on you as being primarily responsible. but i should like to talk to you about life. the generation into which i was born was tedious. some day, when you are tired of london, come down to treadley and expound to me your philosophy of pleasure over some admirable burgundy i am fortunate enough to possess." "i shall be charmed. a visit to treadley would be a great privilege. it has a perfect host, and a perfect library." "you will complete it," answered the old gentleman with a courteous bow. "and now i must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt. i am due at the athenaeum. it is the hour when we sleep there." "all of you, mr. erskine?" "forty of us, in forty arm-chairs. we are practising for an english academy of letters." lord henry laughed and rose. "i am going to the park," he cried. as he was passing out of the door, dorian gray touched him on the arm. "let me come with you," he murmured. "but i thought you had promised basil hallward to go and see him," answered lord henry. "i would sooner come with you; yes, i feel i must come with you. do let me. and you will promise to talk to me all the time? no one talks so wonderfully as you do." "ah! i have talked quite enough for to-day," said lord henry, smiling. "all i want now is to look at life. you may come and look at it with me, if you care to." chapter <UNK> one afternoon, a month later, dorian gray was reclining in a luxurious arm-chair, in the little library of lord henry's house in mayfair. it was, in its way, a very charming room, with its high panelled wainscoting of olive-stained oak, its cream-coloured frieze and ceiling of raised plasterwork, and its brickdust felt carpet strewn with silk, long-fringed persian rugs. on a tiny satinwood table stood a statuette by clodion, and beside it lay a copy of les cent nouvelles, bound for margaret of valois by clovis eve and powdered with the gilt daisies that queen had selected for her device. some large blue china jars and parrot-tulips were ranged on the mantelshelf, and through the small leaded panes of the window streamed the apricot-coloured light of a summer day in london. lord henry had not yet come in. he was always late on principle, his principle being that punctuality is the thief of time. so the lad was looking rather sulky, as with listless fingers he turned over the pages of an elaborately illustrated edition of manon lescaut that he had found in one of the book-cases. the formal monotonous ticking of the louis quatorze clock annoyed him. once or twice he thought of going away. at last he heard a step outside, and the door opened. "how late you are, harry!" he murmured. "i am afraid it is not harry, mr. gray," answered a shrill voice. he glanced quickly round and rose to his feet. "i beg your pardon. i thought--" "you thought it was my husband. it is only his wife. you must let me introduce myself. i know you quite well by your photographs. i think my husband has got seventeen of them." "not seventeen, lady henry?" "well, eighteen, then. and i saw you with him the other night at the opera." she laughed nervously as she spoke, and watched him with her vague forget-me-not eyes. she was a curious woman, whose dresses always looked as if they had been designed in a rage and put on in a tempest. she was usually in love with somebody, and, as her passion was never returned, she had kept all her illusions. she tried to look picturesque, but only succeeded in being untidy. her name was victoria, and she had a perfect mania for going to church. "that was at lohengrin, lady henry, i think?" "yes; it was at dear lohengrin. i like wagner's music better than anybody's. it is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other people hearing what one says. that is a great advantage, don't you think so, mr. gray?" the same nervous staccato laugh broke from her thin lips, and her fingers began to play with a long tortoise-shell paper-knife. dorian smiled and shook his head: "i am afraid i don't think so, lady henry. i never talk during music--at least, during good music. if one hears bad music, it is one's duty to drown it in conversation." "ah! that is one of harry's views, isn't it, mr. gray? i always hear harry's views from his friends. it is the only way i get to know of them. but you must not think i don't like good music. i adore it, but i am afraid of it. it makes me too romantic. i have simply worshipped pianists--two at a time, sometimes, harry tells me. i don't know what it is about them. perhaps it is that they are foreigners. they all are, ain't they? even those that are born in england become foreigners after a time, don't they? it is so clever of them, and such a compliment to art. makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn't it? you have never been to any of my parties, have you, mr. gray? you must come. i can't afford orchids, but i spare no expense in foreigners. they make one's rooms look so picturesque. but here is harry! harry, i came in to look for you, to ask you something--i forget what it was--and i found mr. gray here. we have had such a pleasant chat about music. we have quite the same ideas. no; i think our ideas are quite different. but he has been most pleasant. i am so glad i've seen him." "i am charmed, my love, quite charmed," said lord henry, elevating his dark, crescent-shaped eyebrows and looking at them both with an amused smile. "so sorry i am late, dorian. i went to look after a piece of old brocade in wardour street and had to bargain for hours for it. nowadays people know the price of everything and the value of nothing." "i am afraid i must be going," exclaimed lady henry, breaking an awkward silence with her silly sudden laugh. "i have promised to drive with the duchess. good-bye, mr. gray. good-bye, harry. you are dining out, i suppose? so am i. perhaps i shall see you at lady thornbury's." "i dare say, my dear," said lord henry, shutting the door behind her as, looking like a bird of paradise that had been out all night in the rain, she flitted out of the room, leaving a faint odour of frangipanni. then he lit a cigarette and flung himself down on the sofa. "never marry a woman with straw-coloured hair, dorian," he said after a few puffs. "why, harry?" "because they are so sentimental." "but i like sentimental people." "never marry at all, dorian. men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious: both are disappointed." "i don't think i am likely to marry, harry. i am too much in love. that is one of your aphorisms. i am putting it into practice, as i do everything that you say." "who are you in love with?" asked lord henry after a pause. "with an actress," said dorian gray, blushing. lord henry shrugged his shoulders. "that is a rather commonplace _debut_." "you would not say so if you saw her, harry." "who is she?" "her name is sibyl vane." "never heard of her." "no one has. people will some day, however. she is a genius." "my dear boy, no woman is a genius. women are a decorative sex. they never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. women represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of mind over morals." "harry, how can you?" "my dear dorian, it is quite true. i am analysing women at present, so i ought to know. the subject is not so abstruse as i thought it was. i find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain and the coloured. the plain women are very useful. if you want to gain a reputation for respectability, you have merely to take them down to supper. the other women are very charming. they commit one mistake, however. they paint in order to try and look young. our grandmothers painted in order to try and talk brilliantly. _rouge_ and _esprit_ used to go together. that is all over now. as long as a woman can look ten years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. as for conversation, there are only five women in london worth talking to, and two of these can't be admitted into decent society. however, tell me about your genius. how long have you known her?" "ah! harry, your views terrify me." "never mind that. how long have you known her?" "about three weeks." "and where did you come across her?" "i will tell you, harry, but you mustn't be unsympathetic about it. after all, it never would have happened if i had not met you. you filled me with a wild desire to know everything about life. for days after i met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. as i lounged in the park, or strolled down piccadilly, i used to look at every one who passed me and wonder, with a mad curiosity, what sort of lives they led. some of them fascinated me. others filled me with terror. there was an exquisite poison in the air. i had a passion for sensations.... well, one evening about seven o'clock, i determined to go out in search of some adventure. i felt that this grey monstrous london of ours, with its myriads of people, its sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as you once phrased it, must have something in store for me. i fancied a thousand things. the mere danger gave me a sense of delight. i remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful evening when we first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret of life. i don't know what i expected, but i went out and wandered eastward, soon losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black grassless squares. about half-past eight i passed by an absurd little theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills. a hideous jew, in the most amazing waistcoat i ever beheld in my life, was standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar. he had greasy ringlets, and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt. 'have a box, my lord?' he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an air of gorgeous servility. there was something about him, harry, that amused me. he was such a monster. you will laugh at me, i know, but i really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. to the present day i can't make out why i did so; and yet if i hadn't--my dear harry, if i hadn't--i should have missed the greatest romance of my life. i see you are laughing. it is horrid of you!" "i am not laughing, dorian; at least i am not laughing at you. but you should not say the greatest romance of your life. you should say the first romance of your life. you will always be loved, and you will always be in love with love. a _grande passion_ is the privilege of people who have nothing to do. that is the one use of the idle classes of a country. don't be afraid. there are exquisite things in store for you. this is merely the beginning." "do you think my nature so shallow?" cried dorian gray angrily. "no; i think your nature so deep." "how do you mean?" "my dear boy, the people who love only once in their lives are really the shallow people. what they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, i call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination. faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life of the intellect--simply a confession of failure. faithfulness! i must analyse it some day. the passion for property is in it. there are many things that we would throw away if we were not afraid that others might pick them up. but i don't want to interrupt you. go on with your story." "well, i found myself seated in a horrid little private box, with a vulgar drop-scene staring me in the face. i looked out from behind the curtain and surveyed the house. it was a tawdry affair, all cupids and cornucopias, like a third-rate wedding-cake. the gallery and pit were fairly full, but the two rows of dingy stalls were quite empty, and there was hardly a person in what i suppose they called the dress-circle. women went about with oranges and ginger-beer, and there was a terrible consumption of nuts going on." "it must have been just like the palmy days of the british drama." "just like, i should fancy, and very depressing. i began to wonder what on earth i should do when i caught sight of the play-bill. what do you think the play was, harry?" "i should think 'the idiot boy', or 'dumb but innocent'. our fathers used to like that sort of piece, i believe. the longer i live, dorian, the more keenly i feel that whatever was good enough for our fathers is not good enough for us. in art, as in politics, _les grandperes ont toujours tort_." "this play was good enough for us, harry. it was romeo and juliet. i must admit that i was rather annoyed at the idea of seeing shakespeare done in such a wretched hole of a place. still, i felt interested, in a sort of way. at any rate, i determined to wait for the first act. there was a dreadful orchestra, presided over by a young hebrew who sat at a cracked piano, that nearly drove me away, but at last the drop-scene was drawn up and the play began. romeo was a stout elderly gentleman, with corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a beer-barrel. mercutio was almost as bad. he was played by the low-comedian, who had introduced gags of his own and was on most friendly terms with the pit. they were both as grotesque as the scenery, and that looked as if it had come out of a country-booth. but juliet! harry, imagine a girl, hardly seventeen years of age, with a little, flowerlike face, a small greek head with plaited coils of dark-brown hair, eyes that were violet wells of passion, lips that were like the petals of a rose. she was the loveliest thing i had ever seen in my life. you said to me once that pathos left you unmoved, but that beauty, mere beauty, could fill your eyes with tears. i tell you, harry, i could hardly see this girl for the mist of tears that came across me. and her voice--i never heard such a voice. it was very low at first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one's ear. then it became a little louder, and sounded like a flute or a distant hautboy. in the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing. there were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins. you know how a voice can stir one. your voice and the voice of sibyl vane are two things that i shall never forget. when i close my eyes, i hear them, and each of them says something different. i don't know which to follow. why should i not love her? harry, i do love her. she is everything to me in life. night after night i go to see her play. one evening she is rosalind, and the next evening she is imogen. i have seen her die in the gloom of an italian tomb, sucking the poison from her lover's lips. i have watched her wandering through the forest of arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap. she has been mad, and has come into the presence of a guilty king, and given him rue to wear and bitter herbs to taste of. she has been innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reedlike throat. i have seen her in every age and in every costume. ordinary women never appeal to one's imagination. they are limited to their century. no glamour ever transfigures them. one knows their minds as easily as one knows their bonnets. one can always find them. there is no mystery in any of them. they ride in the park in the morning and chatter at tea-parties in the afternoon. they have their stereotyped smile and their fashionable manner. they are quite obvious. but an actress! how different an actress is! harry! why didn't you tell me that the only thing worth loving is an actress?" "because i have loved so many of them, dorian." "oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces." "don't run down dyed hair and painted faces. there is an extraordinary charm in them, sometimes," said lord henry. "i wish now i had not told you about sibyl vane." "you could not have helped telling me, dorian. all through your life you will tell me everything you do." "yes, harry, i believe that is true. i cannot help telling you things. you have a curious influence over me. if i ever did a crime, i would come and confess it to you. you would understand me." "people like you--the wilful sunbeams of life--don't commit crimes, dorian. but i am much obliged for the compliment, all the same. and now tell me--reach me the matches, like a good boy--thanks--what are your actual relations with sibyl vane?" dorian gray leaped to his feet, with flushed cheeks and burning eyes. "harry! sibyl vane is sacred!" "it is only the sacred things that are worth touching, dorian," said lord henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice. "but why should you be annoyed? i suppose she will belong to you some day. when one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one's self, and one always ends by deceiving others. that is what the world calls a romance. you know her, at any rate, i suppose?" "of course i know her. on the first night i was at the theatre, the horrid old jew came round to the box after the performance was over and offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her. i was furious with him, and told him that juliet had been dead for hundreds of years and that her body was lying in a marble tomb in verona. i think, from his blank look of amazement, that he was under the impression that i had taken too much champagne, or something." "i am not surprised." "then he asked me if i wrote for any of the newspapers. i told him i never even read them. he seemed terribly disappointed at that, and confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy against him, and that they were every one of them to be bought." "i should not wonder if he was quite right there. but, on the other hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be at all expensive." "well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means," laughed dorian. "by this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre, and i had to go. he wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly recommended. i declined. the next night, of course, i arrived at the place again. when he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that i was a munificent patron of art. he was a most offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for shakespeare. he told me once, with an air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to 'the bard,' as he insisted on calling him. he seemed to think it a distinction." "it was a distinction, my dear dorian--a great distinction. most people become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of life. to have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour. but when did you first speak to miss sibyl vane?" "the third night. she had been playing rosalind. i could not help going round. i had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me--at least i fancied that she had. the old jew was persistent. he seemed determined to take me behind, so i consented. it was curious my not wanting to know her, wasn't it?" "no; i don't think so." "my dear harry, why?" "i will tell you some other time. now i want to know about the girl." "sibyl? oh, she was so shy and so gentle. there is something of a child about her. her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when i told her what i thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power. i think we were both rather nervous. the old jew stood grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like children. he would insist on calling me 'my lord,' so i had to assure sibyl that i was not anything of the kind. she said quite simply to me, 'you look more like a prince. i must call you prince charming.'" "upon my word, dorian, miss sibyl knows how to pay compliments." "you don't understand her, harry. she regarded me merely as a person in a play. she knows nothing of life. she lives with her mother, a faded tired woman who played lady capulet in a sort of magenta dressing-wrapper on the first night, and looks as if she had seen better days." "i know that look. it depresses me," murmured lord henry, examining his rings. "the jew wanted to tell me her history, but i said it did not interest me." "you were quite right. there is always something infinitely mean about other people's tragedies." "sibyl is the only thing i care about. what is it to me where she came from? from her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and entirely divine. every night of my life i go to see her act, and every night she is more marvellous." "that is the reason, i suppose, that you never dine with me now. i thought you must have some curious romance on hand. you have; but it is not quite what i expected." "my dear harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and i have been to the opera with you several times," said dorian, opening his blue eyes in wonder. "you always come dreadfully late." "well, i can't help going to see sibyl play," he cried, "even if it is only for a single act. i get hungry for her presence; and when i think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, i am filled with awe." "you can dine with me to-night, dorian, can't you?" he shook his head. "to-night she is imogen," he answered, "and to-morrow night she will be juliet." "when is she sibyl vane?" "never." "i congratulate you." "how horrid you are! she is all the great heroines of the world in one. she is more than an individual. you laugh, but i tell you she has genius. i love her, and i must make her love me. you, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm sibyl vane to love me! i want to make romeo jealous. i want the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter and grow sad. i want a breath of our passion to stir their dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain. my god, harry, how i worship her!" he was walking up and down the room as he spoke. hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks. he was terribly excited. lord henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure. how different he was now from the shy frightened boy he had met in basil hallward's studio! his nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame. out of its secret hiding-place had crept his soul, and desire had come to meet it on the way. "and what do you propose to do?" said lord henry at last. "i want you and basil to come with me some night and see her act. i have not the slightest fear of the result. you are certain to acknowledge her genius. then we must get her out of the jew's hands. she is bound to him for three years--at least for two years and eight months--from the present time. i shall have to pay him something, of course. when all that is settled, i shall take a west end theatre and bring her out properly. she will make the world as mad as she has made me." "that would be impossible, my dear boy." "yes, she will. she has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in her, but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it is personalities, not principles, that move the age." "well, what night shall we go?" "let me see. to-day is tuesday. let us fix to-morrow. she plays juliet to-morrow." "all right. the bristol at eight o'clock; and i will get basil." "not eight, harry, please. half-past six. we must be there before the curtain rises. you must see her in the first act, where she meets romeo." "half-past six! what an hour! it will be like having a meat-tea, or reading an english novel. it must be seven. no gentleman dines before seven. shall you see basil between this and then? or shall i write to him?" "dear basil! i have not laid eyes on him for a week. it is rather horrid of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful frame, specially designed by himself, and, though i am a little jealous of the picture for being a whole month younger than i am, i must admit that i delight in it. perhaps you had better write to him. i don't want to see him alone. he says things that annoy me. he gives me good advice." lord henry smiled. "people are very fond of giving away what they need most themselves. it is what i call the depth of generosity." "oh, basil is the best of fellows, but he seems to me to be just a bit of a philistine. since i have known you, harry, i have discovered that." "basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his work. the consequence is that he has nothing left for life but his prejudices, his principles, and his common sense. the only artists i have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists. good artists exist simply in what they make, and consequently are perfectly uninteresting in what they are. a great poet, a really great poet, is the most unpoetical of all creatures. but inferior poets are absolutely fascinating. the worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they look. the mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets makes a man quite irresistible. he lives the poetry that he cannot write. the others write the poetry that they dare not realize." "i wonder is that really so, harry?" said dorian gray, putting some perfume on his handkerchief out of a large, gold-topped bottle that stood on the table. "it must be, if you say it. and now i am off. imogen is waiting for me. don't forget about to-morrow. good-bye." as he left the room, lord henry's heavy eyelids drooped, and he began to think. certainly few people had ever interested him so much as dorian gray, and yet the lad's mad adoration of some one else caused him not the slightest pang of annoyance or jealousy. he was pleased by it. it made him a more interesting study. he had been always enthralled by the methods of natural science, but the ordinary subject-matter of that science had seemed to him trivial and of no import. and so he had begun by vivisecting himself, as he had ended by vivisecting others. human life--that appeared to him the one thing worth investigating. compared to it there was nothing else of any value. it was true that as one watched life in its curious crucible of pain and pleasure, one could not wear over one's face a mask of glass, nor keep the sulphurous fumes from troubling the brain and making the imagination turbid with monstrous fancies and misshapen dreams. there were poisons so subtle that to know their properties one had to sicken of them. there were maladies so strange that one had to pass through them if one sought to understand their nature. and, yet, what a great reward one received! how wonderful the whole world became to one! to note the curious hard logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect--to observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they were in unison, and at what point they were at discord--there was a delight in that! what matter what the cost was? one could never pay too high a price for any sensation. he was conscious--and the thought brought a gleam of pleasure into his brown agate eyes--that it was through certain words of his, musical words said with musical utterance, that dorian gray's soul had turned to this white girl and bowed in worship before her. to a large extent the lad was his own creation. he had made him premature. that was something. ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its secrets, but to the few, to the elect, the mysteries of life were revealed before the veil was drawn away. sometimes this was the effect of art, and chiefly of the art of literature, which dealt immediately with the passions and the intellect. but now and then a complex personality took the place and assumed the office of art, was indeed, in its way, a real work of art, life having its elaborate masterpieces, just as poetry has, or sculpture, or painting. yes, the lad was premature. he was gathering his harvest while it was yet spring. the pulse and passion of youth were in him, but he was becoming self-conscious. it was delightful to watch him. with his beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at. it was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end. he was like one of those gracious figures in a pageant or a play, whose joys seem to be remote from one, but whose sorrows stir one's sense of beauty, and whose wounds are like red roses. soul and body, body and soul--how mysterious they were! there was animalism in the soul, and the body had its moments of spirituality. the senses could refine, and the intellect could degrade. who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began? how shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! and yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools! was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin? or was the body really in the soul, as giordano bruno thought? the separation of spirit from matter was a mystery, and the union of spirit with matter was a mystery also. he began to wonder whether we could ever make psychology so absolute a science that each little spring of life would be revealed to us. as it was, we always misunderstood ourselves and rarely understood others. experience was of no ethical value. it was merely the name men gave to their mistakes. moralists had, as a rule, regarded it as a mode of warning, had claimed for it a certain ethical efficacy in the formation of character, had praised it as something that taught us what to follow and showed us what to avoid. but there was no motive power in experience. it was as little of an active cause as conscience itself. all that it really demonstrated was that our future would be the same as our past, and that the sin we had done once, and with loathing, we would do many times, and with joy. it was clear to him that the experimental method was the only method by which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and certainly dorian gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to promise rich and fruitful results. his sudden mad love for sibyl vane was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest. there was no doubt that curiosity had much to do with it, curiosity and the desire for new experiences, yet it was not a simple, but rather a very complex passion. what there was in it of the purely sensuous instinct of boyhood had been transformed by the workings of the imagination, changed into something that seemed to the lad himself to be remote from sense, and was for that very reason all the more dangerous. it was the passions about whose origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannized most strongly over us. our weakest motives were those of whose nature we were conscious. it often happened that when we thought we were experimenting on others we were really experimenting on ourselves. while lord henry sat dreaming on these things, a knock came to the door, and his valet entered and reminded him it was time to dress for dinner. he got up and looked out into the street. the sunset had smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite. the panes glowed like plates of heated metal. the sky above was like a faded rose. he thought of his friend's young fiery-coloured life and wondered how it was all going to end. when he arrived home, about half-past twelve o'clock, he saw a telegram lying on the hall table. he opened it and found it was from dorian gray. it was to tell him that he was engaged to be married to sibyl vane. chapter <UNK> "mother, mother, i am so happy!" whispered the girl, burying her face in the lap of the faded, tired-looking woman who, with back turned to the shrill intrusive light, was sitting in the one arm-chair that their dingy sitting-room contained. "i am so happy!" she repeated, "and you must be happy, too!" mrs. vane winced and put her thin, bismuth-whitened hands on her daughter's head. "happy!" she echoed, "i am only happy, sibyl, when i see you act. you must not think of anything but your acting. mr. isaacs has been very good to us, and we owe him money." the girl looked up and pouted. "money, mother?" she cried, "what does money matter? love is more than money." "mr. isaacs has advanced us fifty pounds to pay off our debts and to get a proper outfit for james. you must not forget that, sibyl. fifty pounds is a very large sum. mr. isaacs has been most considerate." "he is not a gentleman, mother, and i hate the way he talks to me," said the girl, rising to her feet and going over to the window. "i don't know how we could manage without him," answered the elder woman querulously. sibyl vane tossed her head and laughed. "we don't want him any more, mother. prince charming rules life for us now." then she paused. a rose shook in her blood and shadowed her cheeks. quick breath parted the petals of her lips. they trembled. some southern wind of passion swept over her and stirred the dainty folds of her dress. "i love him," she said simply. "foolish child! foolish child!" was the parrot-phrase flung in answer. the waving of crooked, false-jewelled fingers gave grotesqueness to the words. the girl laughed again. the joy of a caged bird was in her voice. her eyes caught the melody and echoed it in radiance, then closed for a moment, as though to hide their secret. when they opened, the mist of a dream had passed across them. thin-lipped wisdom spoke at her from the worn chair, hinted at prudence, quoted from that book of cowardice whose author apes the name of common sense. she did not listen. she was free in her prison of passion. her prince, prince charming, was with her. she had called on memory to remake him. she had sent her soul to search for him, and it had brought him back. his kiss burned again upon her mouth. her eyelids were warm with his breath. then wisdom altered its method and spoke of espial and discovery. this young man might be rich. if so, marriage should be thought of. against the shell of her ear broke the waves of worldly cunning. the arrows of craft shot by her. she saw the thin lips moving, and smiled. suddenly she felt the need to speak. the wordy silence troubled her. "mother, mother," she cried, "why does he love me so much? i know why i love him. i love him because he is like what love himself should be. but what does he see in me? i am not worthy of him. and yet--why, i cannot tell--though i feel so much beneath him, i don't feel humble. i feel proud, terribly proud. mother, did you love my father as i love prince charming?" the elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed her cheeks, and her dry lips twitched with a spasm of pain. sybil rushed to her, flung her arms round her neck, and kissed her. "forgive me, mother. i know it pains you to talk about our father. but it only pains you because you loved him so much. don't look so sad. i am as happy to-day as you were twenty years ago. ah! let me be happy for ever!" "my child, you are far too young to think of falling in love. besides, what do you know of this young man? you don't even know his name. the whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when james is going away to australia, and i have so much to think of, i must say that you should have shown more consideration. however, as i said before, if he is rich ..." "ah! mother, mother, let me be happy!" mrs. vane glanced at her, and with one of those false theatrical gestures that so often become a mode of second nature to a stage-player, clasped her in her arms. at this moment, the door opened and a young lad with rough brown hair came into the room. he was thick-set of figure, and his hands and feet were large and somewhat clumsy in movement. he was not so finely bred as his sister. one would hardly have guessed the close relationship that existed between them. mrs. vane fixed her eyes on him and intensified her smile. she mentally elevated her son to the dignity of an audience. she felt sure that the _tableau_ was interesting. "you might keep some of your kisses for me, sibyl, i think," said the lad with a good-natured grumble. "ah! but you don't like being kissed, jim," she cried. "you are a dreadful old bear." and she ran across the room and hugged him. james vane looked into his sister's face with tenderness. "i want you to come out with me for a walk, sibyl. i don't suppose i shall ever see this horrid london again. i am sure i don't want to." "my son, don't say such dreadful things," murmured mrs. vane, taking up a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it. she felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group. it would have increased the theatrical picturesqueness of the situation. "why not, mother? i mean it." "you pain me, my son. i trust you will return from australia in a position of affluence. i believe there is no society of any kind in the colonies--nothing that i would call society--so when you have made your fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in london." "society!" muttered the lad. "i don't want to know anything about that. i should like to make some money to take you and sibyl off the stage. i hate it." "oh, jim!" said sibyl, laughing, "how unkind of you! but are you really going for a walk with me? that will be nice! i was afraid you were going to say good-bye to some of your friends--to tom hardy, who gave you that hideous pipe, or ned langton, who makes fun of you for smoking it. it is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon. where shall we go? let us go to the park." "i am too shabby," he answered, frowning. "only swell people go to the park." "nonsense, jim," she whispered, stroking the sleeve of his coat. he hesitated for a moment. "very well," he said at last, "but don't be too long dressing." she danced out of the door. one could hear her singing as she ran upstairs. her little feet pattered overhead. he walked up and down the room two or three times. then he turned to the still figure in the chair. "mother, are my things ready?" he asked. "quite ready, james," she answered, keeping her eyes on her work. for some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this rough stern son of hers. her shallow secret nature was troubled when their eyes met. she used to wonder if he suspected anything. the silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her. she began to complain. women defend themselves by attacking, just as they attack by sudden and strange surrenders. "i hope you will be contented, james, with your sea-faring life," she said. "you must remember that it is your own choice. you might have entered a solicitor's office. solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the country often dine with the best families." "i hate offices, and i hate clerks," he replied. "but you are quite right. i have chosen my own life. all i say is, watch over sibyl. don't let her come to any harm. mother, you must watch over her." "james, you really talk very strangely. of course i watch over sibyl." "i hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre and goes behind to talk to her. is that right? what about that?" "you are speaking about things you don't understand, james. in the profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying attention. i myself used to receive many bouquets at one time. that was when acting was really understood. as for sibyl, i do not know at present whether her attachment is serious or not. but there is no doubt that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman. he is always most polite to me. besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and the flowers he sends are lovely." "you don't know his name, though," said the lad harshly. "no," answered his mother with a placid expression in her face. "he has not yet revealed his real name. i think it is quite romantic of him. he is probably a member of the aristocracy." james vane bit his lip. "watch over sibyl, mother," he cried, "watch over her." "my son, you distress me very much. sibyl is always under my special care. of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why she should not contract an alliance with him. i trust he is one of the aristocracy. he has all the appearance of it, i must say. it might be a most brilliant marriage for sibyl. they would make a charming couple. his good looks are really quite remarkable; everybody notices them." the lad muttered something to himself and drummed on the window-pane with his coarse fingers. he had just turned round to say something when the door opened and sibyl ran in. "how serious you both are!" she cried. "what is the matter?" "nothing," he answered. "i suppose one must be serious sometimes. good-bye, mother; i will have my dinner at five o'clock. everything is packed, except my shirts, so you need not trouble." "good-bye, my son," she answered with a bow of strained stateliness. she was extremely annoyed at the tone he had adopted with her, and there was something in his look that had made her feel afraid. "kiss me, mother," said the girl. her flowerlike lips touched the withered cheek and warmed its frost. "my child! my child!" cried mrs. vane, looking up to the ceiling in search of an imaginary gallery. "come, sibyl," said her brother impatiently. he hated his mother's affectations. they went out into the flickering, wind-blown sunlight and strolled down the dreary euston road. the passersby glanced in wonder at the sullen heavy youth who, in coarse, ill-fitting clothes, was in the company of such a graceful, refined-looking girl. he was like a common gardener walking with a rose. jim frowned from time to time when he caught the inquisitive glance of some stranger. he had that dislike of being stared at, which comes on geniuses late in life and never leaves the commonplace. sibyl, however, was quite unconscious of the effect she was producing. her love was trembling in laughter on her lips. she was thinking of prince charming, and, that she might think of him all the more, she did not talk of him, but prattled on about the ship in which jim was going to sail, about the gold he was certain to find, about the wonderful heiress whose life he was to save from the wicked, red-shirted bushrangers. for he was not to remain a sailor, or a supercargo, or whatever he was going to be. oh, no! a sailor's existence was dreadful. fancy being cooped up in a horrid ship, with the hoarse, hump-backed waves trying to get in, and a black wind blowing the masts down and tearing the sails into long screaming ribands! he was to leave the vessel at melbourne, bid a polite good-bye to the captain, and go off at once to the gold-fields. before a week was over he was to come across a large nugget of pure gold, the largest nugget that had ever been discovered, and bring it down to the coast in a waggon guarded by six mounted policemen. the bushrangers were to attack them three times, and be defeated with immense slaughter. or, no. he was not to go to the gold-fields at all. they were horrid places, where men got intoxicated, and shot each other in bar-rooms, and used bad language. he was to be a nice sheep-farmer, and one evening, as he was riding home, he was to see the beautiful heiress being carried off by a robber on a black horse, and give chase, and rescue her. of course, she would fall in love with him, and he with her, and they would get married, and come home, and live in an immense house in london. yes, there were delightful things in store for him. but he must be very good, and not lose his temper, or spend his money foolishly. she was only a year older than he was, but she knew so much more of life. he must be sure, also, to write to her by every mail, and to say his prayers each night before he went to sleep. god was very good, and would watch over him. she would pray for him, too, and in a few years he would come back quite rich and happy. the lad listened sulkily to her and made no answer. he was heart-sick at leaving home. yet it was not this alone that made him gloomy and morose. inexperienced though he was, he had still a strong sense of the danger of sibyl's position. this young dandy who was making love to her could mean her no good. he was a gentleman, and he hated him for that, hated him through some curious race-instinct for which he could not account, and which for that reason was all the more dominant within him. he was conscious also of the shallowness and vanity of his mother's nature, and in that saw infinite peril for sibyl and sibyl's happiness. children begin by loving their parents; as they grow older they judge them; sometimes they forgive them. his mother! he had something on his mind to ask of her, something that he had brooded on for many months of silence. a chance phrase that he had heard at the theatre, a whispered sneer that had reached his ears one night as he waited at the stage-door, had set loose a train of horrible thoughts. he remembered it as if it had been the lash of a hunting-crop across his face. his brows knit together into a wedge-like furrow, and with a twitch of pain he bit his underlip. "you are not listening to a word i am saying, jim," cried sibyl, "and i am making the most delightful plans for your future. do say something." "what do you want me to say?" "oh! that you will be a good boy and not forget us," she answered, smiling at him. he shrugged his shoulders. "you are more likely to forget me than i am to forget you, sibyl." she flushed. "what do you mean, jim?" she asked. "you have a new friend, i hear. who is he? why have you not told me about him? he means you no good." "stop, jim!" she exclaimed. "you must not say anything against him. i love him." "why, you don't even know his name," answered the lad. "who is he? i have a right to know." "he is called prince charming. don't you like the name. oh! you silly boy! you should never forget it. if you only saw him, you would think him the most wonderful person in the world. some day you will meet him--when you come back from australia. you will like him so much. everybody likes him, and i ... love him. i wish you could come to the theatre to-night. he is going to be there, and i am to play juliet. oh! how i shall play it! fancy, jim, to be in love and play juliet! to have him sitting there! to play for his delight! i am afraid i may frighten the company, frighten or enthrall them. to be in love is to surpass one's self. poor dreadful mr. isaacs will be shouting 'genius' to his loafers at the bar. he has preached me as a dogma; to-night he will announce me as a revelation. i feel it. and it is all his, his only, prince charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces. but i am poor beside him. poor? what does that matter? when poverty creeps in at the door, love flies in through the window. our proverbs want rewriting. they were made in winter, and it is summer now; spring-time for me, i think, a very dance of blossoms in blue skies." "he is a gentleman," said the lad sullenly. "a prince!" she cried musically. "what more do you want?" "he wants to enslave you." "i shudder at the thought of being free." "i want you to beware of him." "to see him is to worship him; to know him is to trust him." "sibyl, you are mad about him." she laughed and took his arm. "you dear old jim, you talk as if you were a hundred. some day you will be in love yourself. then you will know what it is. don't look so sulky. surely you should be glad to think that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than i have ever been before. life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and difficult. but it will be different now. you are going to a new world, and i have found one. here are two chairs; let us sit down and see the smart people go by." they took their seats amidst a crowd of watchers. the tulip-beds across the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire. a white dust--tremulous cloud of orris-root it seemed--hung in the panting air. the brightly coloured parasols danced and dipped like monstrous butterflies. she made her brother talk of himself, his hopes, his prospects. he spoke slowly and with effort. they passed words to each other as players at a game pass counters. sibyl felt oppressed. she could not communicate her joy. a faint smile curving that sullen mouth was all the echo she could win. after some time she became silent. suddenly she caught a glimpse of golden hair and laughing lips, and in an open carriage with two ladies dorian gray drove past. she started to her feet. "there he is!" she cried. "who?" said jim vane. "prince charming," she answered, looking after the victoria. he jumped up and seized her roughly by the arm. "show him to me. which is he? point him out. i must see him!" he exclaimed; but at that moment the duke of berwick's four-in-hand came between, and when it had left the space clear, the carriage had swept out of the park. "he is gone," murmured sibyl sadly. "i wish you had seen him." "i wish i had, for as sure as there is a god in heaven, if he ever does you any wrong, i shall kill him." she looked at him in horror. he repeated his words. they cut the air like a dagger. the people round began to gape. a lady standing close to her tittered. "come away, jim; come away," she whispered. he followed her doggedly as she passed through the crowd. he felt glad at what he had said. when they reached the achilles statue, she turned round. there was pity in her eyes that became laughter on her lips. she shook her head at him. "you are foolish, jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that is all. how can you say such horrible things? you don't know what you are talking about. you are simply jealous and unkind. ah! i wish you would fall in love. love makes people good, and what you said was wicked." "i am sixteen," he answered, "and i know what i am about. mother is no help to you. she doesn't understand how to look after you. i wish now that i was not going to australia at all. i have a great mind to chuck the whole thing up. i would, if my articles hadn't been signed." "oh, don't be so serious, jim. you are like one of the heroes of those silly melodramas mother used to be so fond of acting in. i am not going to quarrel with you. i have seen him, and oh! to see him is perfect happiness. we won't quarrel. i know you would never harm any one i love, would you?" "not as long as you love him, i suppose," was the sullen answer. "i shall love him for ever!" she cried. "and he?" "for ever, too!" "he had better." she shrank from him. then she laughed and put her hand on his arm. he was merely a boy. at the marble arch they hailed an omnibus, which left them close to their shabby home in the euston road. it was after five o'clock, and sibyl had to lie down for a couple of hours before acting. jim insisted that she should do so. he said that he would sooner part with her when their mother was not present. she would be sure to make a scene, and he detested scenes of every kind. in sybil's own room they parted. there was jealousy in the lad's heart, and a fierce murderous hatred of the stranger who, as it seemed to him, had come between them. yet, when her arms were flung round his neck, and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened and kissed her with real affection. there were tears in his eyes as he went downstairs. his mother was waiting for him below. she grumbled at his unpunctuality, as he entered. he made no answer, but sat down to his meagre meal. the flies buzzed round the table and crawled over the stained cloth. through the rumble of omnibuses, and the clatter of street-cabs, he could hear the droning voice devouring each minute that was left to him. after some time, he thrust away his plate and put his head in his hands. he felt that he had a right to know. it should have been told to him before, if it was as he suspected. leaden with fear, his mother watched him. words dropped mechanically from her lips. a tattered lace handkerchief twitched in her fingers. when the clock struck six, he got up and went to the door. then he turned back and looked at her. their eyes met. in hers he saw a wild appeal for mercy. it enraged him. "mother, i have something to ask you," he said. her eyes wandered vaguely about the room. she made no answer. "tell me the truth. i have a right to know. were you married to my father?" she heaved a deep sigh. it was a sigh of relief. the terrible moment, the moment that night and day, for weeks and months, she had dreaded, had come at last, and yet she felt no terror. indeed, in some measure it was a disappointment to her. the vulgar directness of the question called for a direct answer. the situation had not been gradually led up to. it was crude. it reminded her of a bad rehearsal. "no," she answered, wondering at the harsh simplicity of life. "my father was a scoundrel then!" cried the lad, clenching his fists. she shook her head. "i knew he was not free. we loved each other very much. if he had lived, he would have made provision for us. don't speak against him, my son. he was your father, and a gentleman. indeed, he was highly connected." an oath broke from his lips. "i don't care for myself," he exclaimed, "but don't let sibyl.... it is a gentleman, isn't it, who is in love with her, or says he is? highly connected, too, i suppose." for a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman. her head drooped. she wiped her eyes with shaking hands. "sibyl has a mother," she murmured; "i had none." the lad was touched. he went towards her, and stooping down, he kissed her. "i am sorry if i have pained you by asking about my father," he said, "but i could not help it. i must go now. good-bye. don't forget that you will have only one child now to look after, and believe me that if this man wrongs my sister, i will find out who he is, track him down, and kill him like a dog. i swear it." the exaggerated folly of the threat, the passionate gesture that accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more vivid to her. she was familiar with the atmosphere. she breathed more freely, and for the first time for many months she really admired her son. she would have liked to have continued the scene on the same emotional scale, but he cut her short. trunks had to be carried down and mufflers looked for. the lodging-house drudge bustled in and out. there was the bargaining with the cabman. the moment was lost in vulgar details. it was with a renewed feeling of disappointment that she waved the tattered lace handkerchief from the window, as her son drove away. she was conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted. she consoled herself by telling sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she had only one child to look after. she remembered the phrase. it had pleased her. of the threat she said nothing. it was vividly and dramatically expressed. she felt that they would all laugh at it some day. chapter <UNK> "i suppose you have heard the news, basil?" said lord henry that evening as hallward was shown into a little private room at the bristol where dinner had been laid for three. "no, harry," answered the artist, giving his hat and coat to the bowing waiter. "what is it? nothing about politics, i hope! they don't interest me. there is hardly a single person in the house of commons worth painting, though many of them would be the better for a little whitewashing." "dorian gray is engaged to be married," said lord henry, watching him as he spoke. hallward started and then frowned. "dorian engaged to be married!" he cried. "impossible!" "it is perfectly true." "to whom?" "to some little actress or other." "i can't believe it. dorian is far too sensible." "dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now and then, my dear basil." "marriage is hardly a thing that one can do now and then, harry." "except in america," rejoined lord henry languidly. "but i didn't say he was married. i said he was engaged to be married. there is a great difference. i have a distinct remembrance of being married, but i have no recollection at all of being engaged. i am inclined to think that i never was engaged." "but think of dorian's birth, and position, and wealth. it would be absurd for him to marry so much beneath him." "if you want to make him marry this girl, tell him that, basil. he is sure to do it, then. whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives." "i hope the girl is good, harry. i don't want to see dorian tied to some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his intellect." "oh, she is better than good--she is beautiful," murmured lord henry, sipping a glass of vermouth and orange-bitters. "dorian says she is beautiful, and he is not often wrong about things of that kind. your portrait of him has quickened his appreciation of the personal appearance of other people. it has had that excellent effect, amongst others. we are to see her to-night, if that boy doesn't forget his appointment." "are you serious?" "quite serious, basil. i should be miserable if i thought i should ever be more serious than i am at the present moment." "but do you approve of it, harry?" asked the painter, walking up and down the room and biting his lip. "you can't approve of it, possibly. it is some silly infatuation." "i never approve, or disapprove, of anything now. it is an absurd attitude to take towards life. we are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices. i never take any notice of what common people say, and i never interfere with what charming people do. if a personality fascinates me, whatever mode of expression that personality selects is absolutely delightful to me. dorian gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts juliet, and proposes to marry her. why not? if he wedded messalina, he would be none the less interesting. you know i am not a champion of marriage. the real drawback to marriage is that it makes one unselfish. and unselfish people are colourless. they lack individuality. still, there are certain temperaments that marriage makes more complex. they retain their egotism, and add to it many other egos. they are forced to have more than one life. they become more highly organized, and to be highly organized is, i should fancy, the object of man's existence. besides, every experience is of value, and whatever one may say against marriage, it is certainly an experience. i hope that dorian gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one else. he would be a wonderful study." "you don't mean a single word of all that, harry; you know you don't. if dorian gray's life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than yourself. you are much better than you pretend to be." lord henry laughed. "the reason we all like to think so well of others is that we are all afraid for ourselves. the basis of optimism is sheer terror. we think that we are generous because we credit our neighbour with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to us. we praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our pockets. i mean everything that i have said. i have the greatest contempt for optimism. as for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested. if you want to mar a nature, you have merely to reform it. as for marriage, of course that would be silly, but there are other and more interesting bonds between men and women. i will certainly encourage them. they have the charm of being fashionable. but here is dorian himself. he will tell you more than i can." "my dear harry, my dear basil, you must both congratulate me!" said the lad, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined wings and shaking each of his friends by the hand in turn. "i have never been so happy. of course, it is sudden--all really delightful things are. and yet it seems to me to be the one thing i have been looking for all my life." he was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and looked extraordinarily handsome. "i hope you will always be very happy, dorian," said hallward, "but i don't quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement. you let harry know." "and i don't forgive you for being late for dinner," broke in lord henry, putting his hand on the lad's shoulder and smiling as he spoke. "come, let us sit down and try what the new _chef_ here is like, and then you will tell us how it all came about." "there is really not much to tell," cried dorian as they took their seats at the small round table. "what happened was simply this. after i left you yesterday evening, harry, i dressed, had some dinner at that little italian restaurant in rupert street you introduced me to, and went down at eight o'clock to the theatre. sibyl was playing rosalind. of course, the scenery was dreadful and the orlando absurd. but sibyl! you should have seen her! when she came on in her boy's clothes, she was perfectly wonderful. she wore a moss-coloured velvet jerkin with cinnamon sleeves, slim, brown, cross-gartered hose, a dainty little green cap with a hawk's feather caught in a jewel, and a hooded cloak lined with dull red. she had never seemed to me more exquisite. she had all the delicate grace of that tanagra figurine that you have in your studio, basil. her hair clustered round her face like dark leaves round a pale rose. as for her acting--well, you shall see her to-night. she is simply a born artist. i sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled. i forgot that i was in london and in the nineteenth century. i was away with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. after the performance was over, i went behind and spoke to her. as we were sitting together, suddenly there came into her eyes a look that i had never seen there before. my lips moved towards hers. we kissed each other. i can't describe to you what i felt at that moment. it seemed to me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of rose-coloured joy. she trembled all over and shook like a white narcissus. then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands. i feel that i should not tell you all this, but i can't help it. of course, our engagement is a dead secret. she has not even told her own mother. i don't know what my guardians will say. lord radley is sure to be furious. i don't care. i shall be of age in less than a year, and then i can do what i like. i have been right, basil, haven't i, to take my love out of poetry and to find my wife in shakespeare's plays? lips that shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear. i have had the arms of rosalind around me, and kissed juliet on the mouth." "yes, dorian, i suppose you were right," said hallward slowly. "have you seen her to-day?" asked lord henry. dorian gray shook his head. "i left her in the forest of arden; i shall find her in an orchard in verona." lord henry sipped his champagne in a meditative manner. "at what particular point did you mention the word marriage, dorian? and what did she say in answer? perhaps you forgot all about it." "my dear harry, i did not treat it as a business transaction, and i did not make any formal proposal. i told her that i loved her, and she said she was not worthy to be my wife. not worthy! why, the whole world is nothing to me compared with her." "women are wonderfully practical," murmured lord henry, "much more practical than we are. in situations of that kind we often forget to say anything about marriage, and they always remind us." hallward laid his hand upon his arm. "don't, harry. you have annoyed dorian. he is not like other men. he would never bring misery upon any one. his nature is too fine for that." lord henry looked across the table. "dorian is never annoyed with me," he answered. "i asked the question for the best reason possible, for the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any question--simple curiosity. i have a theory that it is always the women who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women. except, of course, in middle-class life. but then the middle classes are not modern." dorian gray laughed, and tossed his head. "you are quite incorrigible, harry; but i don't mind. it is impossible to be angry with you. when you see sibyl vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her would be a beast, a beast without a heart. i cannot understand how any one can wish to shame the thing he loves. i love sibyl vane. i want to place her on a pedestal of gold and to see the world worship the woman who is mine. what is marriage? an irrevocable vow. you mock at it for that. ah! don't mock. it is an irrevocable vow that i want to take. her trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good. when i am with her, i regret all that you have taught me. i become different from what you have known me to be. i am changed, and the mere touch of sibyl vane's hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous, delightful theories." "and those are ...?" asked lord henry, helping himself to some salad. "oh, your theories about life, your theories about love, your theories about pleasure. all your theories, in fact, harry." "pleasure is the only thing worth having a theory about," he answered in his slow melodious voice. "but i am afraid i cannot claim my theory as my own. it belongs to nature, not to me. pleasure is nature's test, her sign of approval. when we are happy, we are always good, but when we are good, we are not always happy." "ah! but what do you mean by good?" cried basil hallward. "yes," echoed dorian, leaning back in his chair and looking at lord henry over the heavy clusters of purple-lipped irises that stood in the centre of the table, "what do you mean by good, harry?" "to be good is to be in harmony with one's self," he replied, touching the thin stem of his glass with his pale, fine-pointed fingers. "discord is to be forced to be in harmony with others. one's own life--that is the important thing. as for the lives of one's neighbours, if one wishes to be a prig or a puritan, one can flaunt one's moral views about them, but they are not one's concern. besides, individualism has really the higher aim. modern morality consists in accepting the standard of one's age. i consider that for any man of culture to accept the standard of his age is a form of the grossest immorality." "but, surely, if one lives merely for one's self, harry, one pays a terrible price for doing so?" suggested the painter. "yes, we are overcharged for everything nowadays. i should fancy that the real tragedy of the poor is that they can afford nothing but self-denial. beautiful sins, like beautiful things, are the privilege of the rich." "one has to pay in other ways but money." "what sort of ways, basil?" "oh! i should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in ... well, in the consciousness of degradation." lord henry shrugged his shoulders. "my dear fellow, mediaeval art is charming, but mediaeval emotions are out of date. one can use them in fiction, of course. but then the only things that one can use in fiction are the things that one has ceased to use in fact. believe me, no civilized man ever regrets a pleasure, and no uncivilized man ever knows what a pleasure is." "i know what pleasure is," cried dorian gray. "it is to adore some one." "that is certainly better than being adored," he answered, toying with some fruits. "being adored is a nuisance. women treat us just as humanity treats its gods. they worship us, and are always bothering us to do something for them." "i should have said that whatever they ask for they had first given to us," murmured the lad gravely. "they create love in our natures. they have a right to demand it back." "that is quite true, dorian," cried hallward. "nothing is ever quite true," said lord henry. "this is," interrupted dorian. "you must admit, harry, that women give to men the very gold of their lives." "possibly," he sighed, "but they invariably want it back in such very small change. that is the worry. women, as some witty frenchman once put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always prevent us from carrying them out." "harry, you are dreadful! i don't know why i like you so much." "you will always like me, dorian," he replied. "will you have some coffee, you fellows? waiter, bring coffee, and _fine-champagne_, and some cigarettes. no, don't mind the cigarettes--i have some. basil, i can't allow you to smoke cigars. you must have a cigarette. a cigarette is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. it is exquisite, and it leaves one unsatisfied. what more can one want? yes, dorian, you will always be fond of me. i represent to you all the sins you have never had the courage to commit." "what nonsense you talk, harry!" cried the lad, taking a light from a fire-breathing silver dragon that the waiter had placed on the table. "let us go down to the theatre. when sibyl comes on the stage you will have a new ideal of life. she will represent something to you that you have never known." "i have known everything," said lord henry, with a tired look in his eyes, "but i am always ready for a new emotion. i am afraid, however, that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing. still, your wonderful girl may thrill me. i love acting. it is so much more real than life. let us go. dorian, you will come with me. i am so sorry, basil, but there is only room for two in the brougham. you must follow us in a hansom." they got up and put on their coats, sipping their coffee standing. the painter was silent and preoccupied. there was a gloom over him. he could not bear this marriage, and yet it seemed to him to be better than many other things that might have happened. after a few minutes, they all passed downstairs. he drove off by himself, as had been arranged, and watched the flashing lights of the little brougham in front of him. a strange sense of loss came over him. he felt that dorian gray would never again be to him all that he had been in the past. life had come between them.... his eyes darkened, and the crowded flaring streets became blurred to his eyes. when the cab drew up at the theatre, it seemed to him that he had grown years older. chapter <UNK> for some reason or other, the house was crowded that night, and the fat jew manager who met them at the door was beaming from ear to ear with an oily tremulous smile. he escorted them to their box with a sort of pompous humility, waving his fat jewelled hands and talking at the top of his voice. dorian gray loathed him more than ever. he felt as if he had come to look for miranda and had been met by caliban. lord henry, upon the other hand, rather liked him. at least he declared he did, and insisted on shaking him by the hand and assuring him that he was proud to meet a man who had discovered a real genius and gone bankrupt over a poet. hallward amused himself with watching the faces in the pit. the heat was terribly oppressive, and the huge sunlight flamed like a monstrous dahlia with petals of yellow fire. the youths in the gallery had taken off their coats and waistcoats and hung them over the side. they talked to each other across the theatre and shared their oranges with the tawdry girls who sat beside them. some women were laughing in the pit. their voices were horribly shrill and discordant. the sound of the popping of corks came from the bar. "what a place to find one's divinity in!" said lord henry. "yes!" answered dorian gray. "it was here i found her, and she is divine beyond all living things. when she acts, you will forget everything. these common rough people, with their coarse faces and brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage. they sit silently and watch her. they weep and laugh as she wills them to do. she makes them as responsive as a violin. she spiritualizes them, and one feels that they are of the same flesh and blood as one's self." "the same flesh and blood as one's self! oh, i hope not!" exclaimed lord henry, who was scanning the occupants of the gallery through his opera-glass. "don't pay any attention to him, dorian," said the painter. "i understand what you mean, and i believe in this girl. any one you love must be marvellous, and any girl who has the effect you describe must be fine and noble. to spiritualize one's age--that is something worth doing. if this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without one, if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have been sordid and ugly, if she can strip them of their selfishness and lend them tears for sorrows that are not their own, she is worthy of all your adoration, worthy of the adoration of the world. this marriage is quite right. i did not think so at first, but i admit it now. the gods made sibyl vane for you. without her you would have been incomplete." "thanks, basil," answered dorian gray, pressing his hand. "i knew that you would understand me. harry is so cynical, he terrifies me. but here is the orchestra. it is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about five minutes. then the curtain rises, and you will see the girl to whom i am going to give all my life, to whom i have given everything that is good in me." a quarter of an hour afterwards, amidst an extraordinary turmoil of applause, sibyl vane stepped on to the stage. yes, she was certainly lovely to look at--one of the loveliest creatures, lord henry thought, that he had ever seen. there was something of the fawn in her shy grace and startled eyes. a faint blush, like the shadow of a rose in a mirror of silver, came to her cheeks as she glanced at the crowded enthusiastic house. she stepped back a few paces and her lips seemed to tremble. basil hallward leaped to his feet and began to applaud. motionless, and as one in a dream, sat dorian gray, gazing at her. lord henry peered through his glasses, murmuring, "charming! charming!" the scene was the hall of capulet's house, and romeo in his pilgrim's dress had entered with mercutio and his other friends. the band, such as it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the dance began. through the crowd of ungainly, shabbily dressed actors, sibyl vane moved like a creature from a finer world. her body swayed, while she danced, as a plant sways in the water. the curves of her throat were the curves of a white lily. her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory. yet she was curiously listless. she showed no sign of joy when her eyes rested on romeo. the few words she had to speak-- good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, which mannerly devotion shows in this; for saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch, and palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss-- with the brief dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly artificial manner. the voice was exquisite, but from the point of view of tone it was absolutely false. it was wrong in colour. it took away all the life from the verse. it made the passion unreal. dorian gray grew pale as he watched her. he was puzzled and anxious. neither of his friends dared to say anything to him. she seemed to them to be absolutely incompetent. they were horribly disappointed. yet they felt that the true test of any juliet is the balcony scene of the second act. they waited for that. if she failed there, there was nothing in her. she looked charming as she came out in the moonlight. that could not be denied. but the staginess of her acting was unbearable, and grew worse as she went on. her gestures became absurdly artificial. she overemphasized everything that she had to say. the beautiful passage-- thou knowest the mask of night is on my face, else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek for that which thou hast heard me speak to-night-- was declaimed with the painful precision of a schoolgirl who has been taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution. when she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines-- although i joy in thee, i have no joy of this contract to-night: it is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden; too like the lightning, which doth cease to be ere one can say, "it lightens." sweet, good-night! this bud of love by summer's ripening breath may prove a beauteous flower when next we meet-- she spoke the words as though they conveyed no meaning to her. it was not nervousness. indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely self-contained. it was simply bad art. she was a complete failure. even the common uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost their interest in the play. they got restless, and began to talk loudly and to whistle. the jew manager, who was standing at the back of the dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage. the only person unmoved was the girl herself. when the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and lord henry got up from his chair and put on his coat. "she is quite beautiful, dorian," he said, "but she can't act. let us go." "i am going to see the play through," answered the lad, in a hard bitter voice. "i am awfully sorry that i have made you waste an evening, harry. i apologize to you both." "my dear dorian, i should think miss vane was ill," interrupted hallward. "we will come some other night." "i wish she were ill," he rejoined. "but she seems to me to be simply callous and cold. she has entirely altered. last night she was a great artist. this evening she is merely a commonplace mediocre actress." "don't talk like that about any one you love, dorian. love is a more wonderful thing than art." "they are both simply forms of imitation," remarked lord henry. "but do let us go. dorian, you must not stay here any longer. it is not good for one's morals to see bad acting. besides, i don't suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays juliet like a wooden doll? she is very lovely, and if she knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience. there are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating--people who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing. good heavens, my dear boy, don't look so tragic! the secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming. come to the club with basil and myself. we will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of sibyl vane. she is beautiful. what more can you want?" "go away, harry," cried the lad. "i want to be alone. basil, you must go. ah! can't you see that my heart is breaking?" the hot tears came to his eyes. his lips trembled, and rushing to the back of the box, he leaned up against the wall, hiding his face in his hands. "let us go, basil," said lord henry with a strange tenderness in his voice, and the two young men passed out together. a few moments afterwards the footlights flared up and the curtain rose on the third act. dorian gray went back to his seat. he looked pale, and proud, and indifferent. the play dragged on, and seemed interminable. half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots and laughing. the whole thing was a _fiasco_. the last act was played to almost empty benches. the curtain went down on a titter and some groans. as soon as it was over, dorian gray rushed behind the scenes into the greenroom. the girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on her face. her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire. there was a radiance about her. her parted lips were smiling over some secret of their own. when he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy came over her. "how badly i acted to-night, dorian!" she cried. "horribly!" he answered, gazing at her in amazement. "horribly! it was dreadful. are you ill? you have no idea what it was. you have no idea what i suffered." the girl smiled. "dorian," she answered, lingering over his name with long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to the red petals of her mouth. "dorian, you should have understood. but you understand now, don't you?" "understand what?" he asked, angrily. "why i was so bad to-night. why i shall always be bad. why i shall never act well again." he shrugged his shoulders. "you are ill, i suppose. when you are ill you shouldn't act. you make yourself ridiculous. my friends were bored. i was bored." she seemed not to listen to him. she was transfigured with joy. an ecstasy of happiness dominated her. "dorian, dorian," she cried, "before i knew you, acting was the one reality of my life. it was only in the theatre that i lived. i thought that it was all true. i was rosalind one night and portia the other. the joy of beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of cordelia were mine also. i believed in everything. the common people who acted with me seemed to me to be godlike. the painted scenes were my world. i knew nothing but shadows, and i thought them real. you came--oh, my beautiful love!--and you freed my soul from prison. you taught me what reality really is. to-night, for the first time in my life, i saw through the hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which i had always played. to-night, for the first time, i became conscious that the romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words i had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what i wanted to say. you had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but a reflection. you had made me understand what love really is. my love! my love! prince charming! prince of life! i have grown sick of shadows. you are more to me than all art can ever be. what have i to do with the puppets of a play? when i came on to-night, i could not understand how it was that everything had gone from me. i thought that i was going to be wonderful. i found that i could do nothing. suddenly it dawned on my soul what it all meant. the knowledge was exquisite to me. i heard them hissing, and i smiled. what could they know of love such as ours? take me away, dorian--take me away with you, where we can be quite alone. i hate the stage. i might mimic a passion that i do not feel, but i cannot mimic one that burns me like fire. oh, dorian, dorian, you understand now what it signifies? even if i could do it, it would be profanation for me to play at being in love. you have made me see that." he flung himself down on the sofa and turned away his face. "you have killed my love," he muttered. she looked at him in wonder and laughed. he made no answer. she came across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair. she knelt down and pressed his hands to her lips. he drew them away, and a shudder ran through him. then he leaped up and went to the door. "yes," he cried, "you have killed my love. you used to stir my imagination. now you don't even stir my curiosity. you simply produce no effect. i loved you because you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the shadows of art. you have thrown it all away. you are shallow and stupid. my god! how mad i was to love you! what a fool i have been! you are nothing to me now. i will never see you again. i will never think of you. i will never mention your name. you don't know what you were to me, once. why, once ... oh, i can't bear to think of it! i wish i had never laid eyes upon you! you have spoiled the romance of my life. how little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! without your art, you are nothing. i would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent. the world would have worshipped you, and you would have borne my name. what are you now? a third-rate actress with a pretty face." the girl grew white, and trembled. she clenched her hands together, and her voice seemed to catch in her throat. "you are not serious, dorian?" she murmured. "you are acting." "acting! i leave that to you. you do it so well," he answered bitterly. she rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain in her face, came across the room to him. she put her hand upon his arm and looked into his eyes. he thrust her back. "don't touch me!" he cried. a low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet and lay there like a trampled flower. "dorian, dorian, don't leave me!" she whispered. "i am so sorry i didn't act well. i was thinking of you all the time. but i will try--indeed, i will try. it came so suddenly across me, my love for you. i think i should never have known it if you had not kissed me--if we had not kissed each other. kiss me again, my love. don't go away from me. i couldn't bear it. oh! don't go away from me. my brother ... no; never mind. he didn't mean it. he was in jest.... but you, oh! can't you forgive me for to-night? i will work so hard and try to improve. don't be cruel to me, because i love you better than anything in the world. after all, it is only once that i have not pleased you. but you are quite right, dorian. i should have shown myself more of an artist. it was foolish of me, and yet i couldn't help it. oh, don't leave me, don't leave me." a fit of passionate sobbing choked her. she crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and dorian gray, with his beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled lips curled in exquisite disdain. there is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. sibyl vane seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic. her tears and sobs annoyed him. "i am going," he said at last in his calm clear voice. "i don't wish to be unkind, but i can't see you again. you have disappointed me." she wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer. her little hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for him. he turned on his heel and left the room. in a few moments he was out of the theatre. where he went to he hardly knew. he remembered wandering through dimly lit streets, past gaunt, black-shadowed archways and evil-looking houses. women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter had called after him. drunkards had reeled by, cursing and chattering to themselves like monstrous apes. he had seen grotesque children huddled upon door-steps, and heard shrieks and oaths from gloomy courts. as the dawn was just breaking, he found himself close to covent garden. the darkness lifted, and, flushed with faint fires, the sky hollowed itself into a perfect pearl. huge carts filled with nodding lilies rumbled slowly down the polished empty street. the air was heavy with the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty seemed to bring him an anodyne for his pain. he followed into the market and watched the men unloading their waggons. a white-smocked carter offered him some cherries. he thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money for them, and began to eat them listlessly. they had been plucked at midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them. a long line of boys carrying crates of striped tulips, and of yellow and red roses, defiled in front of him, threading their way through the huge, jade-green piles of vegetables. under the portico, with its grey, sun-bleached pillars, loitered a troop of draggled bareheaded girls, waiting for the auction to be over. others crowded round the swinging doors of the coffee-house in the piazza. the heavy cart-horses slipped and stamped upon the rough stones, shaking their bells and trappings. some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks. iris-necked and pink-footed, the pigeons ran about picking up seeds. after a little while, he hailed a hansom and drove home. for a few moments he loitered upon the doorstep, looking round at the silent square, with its blank, close-shuttered windows and its staring blinds. the sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like silver against it. from some chimney opposite a thin wreath of smoke was rising. it curled, a violet riband, through the nacre-coloured air. in the huge gilt venetian lantern, spoil of some doge's barge, that hung from the ceiling of the great, oak-panelled hall of entrance, lights were still burning from three flickering jets: thin blue petals of flame they seemed, rimmed with white fire. he turned them out and, having thrown his hat and cape on the table, passed through the library towards the door of his bedroom, a large octagonal chamber on the ground floor that, in his new-born feeling for luxury, he had just had decorated for himself and hung with some curious renaissance tapestries that had been discovered stored in a disused attic at selby royal. as he was turning the handle of the door, his eye fell upon the portrait basil hallward had painted of him. he started back as if in surprise. then he went on into his own room, looking somewhat puzzled. after he had taken the button-hole out of his coat, he seemed to hesitate. finally, he came back, went over to the picture, and examined it. in the dim arrested light that struggled through the cream-coloured silk blinds, the face appeared to him to be a little changed. the expression looked different. one would have said that there was a touch of cruelty in the mouth. it was certainly strange. he turned round and, walking to the window, drew up the blind. the bright dawn flooded the room and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky corners, where they lay shuddering. but the strange expression that he had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed to linger there, to be more intensified even. the quivering ardent sunlight showed him the lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly as if he had been looking into a mirror after he had done some dreadful thing. he winced and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in ivory cupids, one of lord henry's many presents to him, glanced hurriedly into its polished depths. no line like that warped his red lips. what did it mean? he rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined it again. there were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had altered. it was not a mere fancy of his own. the thing was horribly apparent. he threw himself into a chair and began to think. suddenly there flashed across his mind what he had said in basil hallward's studio the day the picture had been finished. yes, he remembered it perfectly. he had uttered a mad wish that he himself might remain young, and the portrait grow old; that his own beauty might be untarnished, and the face on the canvas bear the burden of his passions and his sins; that the painted image might be seared with the lines of suffering and thought, and that he might keep all the delicate bloom and loveliness of his then just conscious boyhood. surely his wish had not been fulfilled? such things were impossible. it seemed monstrous even to think of them. and, yet, there was the picture before him, with the touch of cruelty in the mouth. cruelty! had he been cruel? it was the girl's fault, not his. he had dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her because he had thought her great. then she had disappointed him. she had been shallow and unworthy. and, yet, a feeling of infinite regret came over him, as he thought of her lying at his feet sobbing like a little child. he remembered with what callousness he had watched her. why had he been made like that? why had such a soul been given to him? but he had suffered also. during the three terrible hours that the play had lasted, he had lived centuries of pain, aeon upon aeon of torture. his life was well worth hers. she had marred him for a moment, if he had wounded her for an age. besides, women were better suited to bear sorrow than men. they lived on their emotions. they only thought of their emotions. when they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes. lord henry had told him that, and lord henry knew what women were. why should he trouble about sibyl vane? she was nothing to him now. but the picture? what was he to say of that? it held the secret of his life, and told his story. it had taught him to love his own beauty. would it teach him to loathe his own soul? would he ever look at it again? no; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses. the horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it. suddenly there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men mad. the picture had not changed. it was folly to think so. yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel smile. its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight. its blue eyes met his own. a sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted image of himself, came over him. it had altered already, and would alter more. its gold would wither into grey. its red and white roses would die. for every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its fairness. but he would not sin. the picture, changed or unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience. he would resist temptation. he would not see lord henry any more--would not, at any rate, listen to those subtle poisonous theories that in basil hallward's garden had first stirred within him the passion for impossible things. he would go back to sibyl vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again. yes, it was his duty to do so. she must have suffered more than he had. poor child! he had been selfish and cruel to her. the fascination that she had exercised over him would return. they would be happy together. his life with her would be beautiful and pure. he got up from his chair and drew a large screen right in front of the portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it. "how horrible!" he murmured to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it. when he stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath. the fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions. he thought only of sibyl. a faint echo of his love came back to him. he repeated her name over and over again. the birds that were singing in the dew-drenched garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her. chapter <UNK> it was long past noon when he awoke. his valet had crept several times on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had wondered what made his young master sleep so late. finally his bell sounded, and victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a small tray of old sevres china, and drew back the olive-satin curtains, with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall windows. "monsieur has well slept this morning," he said, smiling. "what o'clock is it, victor?" asked dorian gray drowsily. "one hour and a quarter, monsieur." how late it was! he sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters. one of them was from lord henry, and had been brought by hand that morning. he hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside. the others he opened listlessly. they contained the usual collection of cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of charity concerts, and the like that are showered on fashionable young men every morning during the season. there was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver louis-quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously worded communications from jermyn street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment's notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest. after about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the onyx-paved bathroom. the cool water refreshed him after his long sleep. he seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through. a dim sense of having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice, but there was the unreality of a dream about it. as soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down to a light french breakfast that had been laid out for him on a small round table close to the open window. it was an exquisite day. the warm air seemed laden with spices. a bee flew in and buzzed round the blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, stood before him. he felt perfectly happy. suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the portrait, and he started. "too cold for monsieur?" asked his valet, putting an omelette on the table. "i shut the window?" dorian shook his head. "i am not cold," he murmured. was it all true? had the portrait really changed? or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy? surely a painted canvas could not alter? the thing was absurd. it would serve as a tale to tell basil some day. it would make him smile. and, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing! first in the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of cruelty round the warped lips. he almost dreaded his valet leaving the room. he knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait. he was afraid of certainty. when the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell him to remain. as the door was closing behind him, he called him back. the man stood waiting for his orders. dorian looked at him for a moment. "i am not at home to any one, victor," he said with a sigh. the man bowed and retired. then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen. the screen was an old one, of gilt spanish leather, stamped and wrought with a rather florid louis-quatorze pattern. he scanned it curiously, wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man's life. should he move it aside, after all? why not let it stay there? what was the use of knowing? if the thing was true, it was terrible. if it was not true, why trouble about it? but what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change? what should he do if basil hallward came and asked to look at his own picture? basil would be sure to do that. no; the thing had to be examined, and at once. anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt. he got up and locked both doors. at least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame. then he drew the screen aside and saw himself face to face. it was perfectly true. the portrait had altered. as he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small wonder, he found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost scientific interest. that such a change should have taken place was incredible to him. and yet it was a fact. was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him? could it be that what that soul thought, they realized?--that what it dreamed, they made true? or was there some other, more terrible reason? he shuddered, and felt afraid, and, going back to the couch, lay there, gazing at the picture in sickened horror. one thing, however, he felt that it had done for him. it had made him conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to sibyl vane. it was not too late to make reparation for that. she could still be his wife. his unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence, would be transformed into some nobler passion, and the portrait that basil hallward had painted of him would be a guide to him through life, would be to him what holiness is to some, and conscience to others, and the fear of god to us all. there were opiates for remorse, drugs that could lull the moral sense to sleep. but here was a visible symbol of the degradation of sin. here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men brought upon their souls. three o'clock struck, and four, and the half-hour rang its double chime, but dorian gray did not stir. he was trying to gather up the scarlet threads of life and to weave them into a pattern; to find his way through the sanguine labyrinth of passion through which he was wandering. he did not know what to do, or what to think. finally, he went over to the table and wrote a passionate letter to the girl he had loved, imploring her forgiveness and accusing himself of madness. he covered page after page with wild words of sorrow and wilder words of pain. there is a luxury in self-reproach. when we blame ourselves, we feel that no one else has a right to blame us. it is the confession, not the priest, that gives us absolution. when dorian had finished the letter, he felt that he had been forgiven. suddenly there came a knock to the door, and he heard lord henry's voice outside. "my dear boy, i must see you. let me in at once. i can't bear your shutting yourself up like this." he made no answer at first, but remained quite still. the knocking still continued and grew louder. yes, it was better to let lord henry in, and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead, to quarrel with him if it became necessary to quarrel, to part if parting was inevitable. he jumped up, drew the screen hastily across the picture, and unlocked the door. "i am so sorry for it all, dorian," said lord henry as he entered. "but you must not think too much about it." "do you mean about sibyl vane?" asked the lad. "yes, of course," answered lord henry, sinking into a chair and slowly pulling off his yellow gloves. "it is dreadful, from one point of view, but it was not your fault. tell me, did you go behind and see her, after the play was over?" "yes." "i felt sure you had. did you make a scene with her?" "i was brutal, harry--perfectly brutal. but it is all right now. i am not sorry for anything that has happened. it has taught me to know myself better." "ah, dorian, i am so glad you take it in that way! i was afraid i would find you plunged in remorse and tearing that nice curly hair of yours." "i have got through all that," said dorian, shaking his head and smiling. "i am perfectly happy now. i know what conscience is, to begin with. it is not what you told me it was. it is the divinest thing in us. don't sneer at it, harry, any more--at least not before me. i want to be good. i can't bear the idea of my soul being hideous." "a very charming artistic basis for ethics, dorian! i congratulate you on it. but how are you going to begin?" "by marrying sibyl vane." "marrying sibyl vane!" cried lord henry, standing up and looking at him in perplexed amazement. "but, my dear dorian--" "yes, harry, i know what you are going to say. something dreadful about marriage. don't say it. don't ever say things of that kind to me again. two days ago i asked sibyl to marry me. i am not going to break my word to her. she is to be my wife." "your wife! dorian! ... didn't you get my letter? i wrote to you this morning, and sent the note down by my own man." "your letter? oh, yes, i remember. i have not read it yet, harry. i was afraid there might be something in it that i wouldn't like. you cut life to pieces with your epigrams." "you know nothing then?" "what do you mean?" lord henry walked across the room, and sitting down by dorian gray, took both his hands in his own and held them tightly. "dorian," he said, "my letter--don't be frightened--was to tell you that sibyl vane is dead." a cry of pain broke from the lad's lips, and he leaped to his feet, tearing his hands away from lord henry's grasp. "dead! sibyl dead! it is not true! it is a horrible lie! how dare you say it?" "it is quite true, dorian," said lord henry, gravely. "it is in all the morning papers. i wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till i came. there will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not be mixed up in it. things like that make a man fashionable in paris. but in london people are so prejudiced. here, one should never make one's _debut_ with a scandal. one should reserve that to give an interest to one's old age. i suppose they don't know your name at the theatre? if they don't, it is all right. did any one see you going round to her room? that is an important point." dorian did not answer for a few moments. he was dazed with horror. finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, "harry, did you say an inquest? what did you mean by that? did sibyl--? oh, harry, i can't bear it! but be quick. tell me everything at once." "i have no doubt it was not an accident, dorian, though it must be put in that way to the public. it seems that as she was leaving the theatre with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had forgotten something upstairs. they waited some time for her, but she did not come down again. they ultimately found her lying dead on the floor of her dressing-room. she had swallowed something by mistake, some dreadful thing they use at theatres. i don't know what it was, but it had either prussic acid or white lead in it. i should fancy it was prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously." "harry, harry, it is terrible!" cried the lad. "yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed up in it. i see by _the standard_ that she was seventeen. i should have thought she was almost younger than that. she looked such a child, and seemed to know so little about acting. dorian, you mustn't let this thing get on your nerves. you must come and dine with me, and afterwards we will look in at the opera. it is a patti night, and everybody will be there. you can come to my sister's box. she has got some smart women with her." "so i have murdered sibyl vane," said dorian gray, half to himself, "murdered her as surely as if i had cut her little throat with a knife. yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. the birds sing just as happily in my garden. and to-night i am to dine with you, and then go on to the opera, and sup somewhere, i suppose, afterwards. how extraordinarily dramatic life is! if i had read all this in a book, harry, i think i would have wept over it. somehow, now that it has happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears. here is the first passionate love-letter i have ever written in my life. strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been addressed to a dead girl. can they feel, i wonder, those white silent people we call the dead? sibyl! can she feel, or know, or listen? oh, harry, how i loved her once! it seems years ago to me now. she was everything to me. then came that dreadful night--was it really only last night?--when she played so badly, and my heart almost broke. she explained it all to me. it was terribly pathetic. but i was not moved a bit. i thought her shallow. suddenly something happened that made me afraid. i can't tell you what it was, but it was terrible. i said i would go back to her. i felt i had done wrong. and now she is dead. my god! my god! harry, what shall i do? you don't know the danger i am in, and there is nothing to keep me straight. she would have done that for me. she had no right to kill herself. it was selfish of her." "my dear dorian," answered lord henry, taking a cigarette from his case and producing a gold-latten matchbox, "the only way a woman can ever reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible interest in life. if you had married this girl, you would have been wretched. of course, you would have treated her kindly. one can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing. but she would have soon found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her. and when a woman finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy, or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman's husband has to pay for. i say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been abject--which, of course, i would not have allowed--but i assure you that in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure." "i suppose it would," muttered the lad, walking up and down the room and looking horribly pale. "but i thought it was my duty. it is not my fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right. i remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good resolutions--that they are always made too late. mine certainly were." "good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific laws. their origin is pure vanity. their result is absolutely _nil_. they give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions that have a certain charm for the weak. that is all that can be said for them. they are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they have no account." "harry," cried dorian gray, coming over and sitting down beside him, "why is it that i cannot feel this tragedy as much as i want to? i don't think i am heartless. do you?" "you have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be entitled to give yourself that name, dorian," answered lord henry with his sweet melancholy smile. the lad frowned. "i don't like that explanation, harry," he rejoined, "but i am glad you don't think i am heartless. i am nothing of the kind. i know i am not. and yet i must admit that this thing that has happened does not affect me as it should. it seems to me to be simply like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play. it has all the terrible beauty of a greek tragedy, a tragedy in which i took a great part, but by which i have not been wounded." "it is an interesting question," said lord henry, who found an exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad's unconscious egotism, "an extremely interesting question. i fancy that the true explanation is this: it often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack of style. they affect us just as vulgarity affects us. they give us an impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that. sometimes, however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses our lives. if these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply appeals to our sense of dramatic effect. suddenly we find that we are no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. or rather we are both. we watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle enthralls us. in the present case, what is it that has really happened? some one has killed herself for love of you. i wish that i had ever had such an experience. it would have made me in love with love for the rest of my life. the people who have adored me--there have not been very many, but there have been some--have always insisted on living on, long after i had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. they have become stout and tedious, and when i meet them, they go in at once for reminiscences. that awful memory of woman! what a fearful thing it is! and what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! one should absorb the colour of life, but one should never remember its details. details are always vulgar." "i must sow poppies in my garden," sighed dorian. "there is no necessity," rejoined his companion. "life has always poppies in her hands. of course, now and then things linger. i once wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic mourning for a romance that would not die. ultimately, however, it did die. i forget what killed it. i think it was her proposing to sacrifice the whole world for me. that is always a dreadful moment. it fills one with the terror of eternity. well--would you believe it?--a week ago, at lady hampshire's, i found myself seated at dinner next the lady in question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and digging up the past, and raking up the future. i had buried my romance in a bed of asphodel. she dragged it out again and assured me that i had spoiled her life. i am bound to state that she ate an enormous dinner, so i did not feel any anxiety. but what a lack of taste she showed! the one charm of the past is that it is the past. but women never know when the curtain has fallen. they always want a sixth act, and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over, they propose to continue it. if they were allowed their own way, every comedy would have a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce. they are charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art. you are more fortunate than i am. i assure you, dorian, that not one of the women i have known would have done for me what sibyl vane did for you. ordinary women always console themselves. some of them do it by going in for sentimental colours. never trust a woman who wears mauve, whatever her age may be, or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons. it always means that they have a history. others find a great consolation in suddenly discovering the good qualities of their husbands. they flaunt their conjugal felicity in one's face, as if it were the most fascinating of sins. religion consoles some. its mysteries have all the charm of a flirtation, a woman once told me, and i can quite understand it. besides, nothing makes one so vain as being told that one is a sinner. conscience makes egotists of us all. yes; there is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern life. indeed, i have not mentioned the most important one." "what is that, harry?" said the lad listlessly. "oh, the obvious consolation. taking some one else's admirer when one loses one's own. in good society that always whitewashes a woman. but really, dorian, how different sibyl vane must have been from all the women one meets! there is something to me quite beautiful about her death. i am glad i am living in a century when such wonders happen. they make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with, such as romance, passion, and love." "i was terribly cruel to her. you forget that." "i am afraid that women appreciate cruelty, downright cruelty, more than anything else. they have wonderfully primitive instincts. we have emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all the same. they love being dominated. i am sure you were splendid. i have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but i can fancy how delightful you looked. and, after all, you said something to me the day before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful, but that i see now was absolutely true, and it holds the key to everything." "what was that, harry?" "you said to me that sibyl vane represented to you all the heroines of romance--that she was desdemona one night, and ophelia the other; that if she died as juliet, she came to life as imogen." "she will never come to life again now," muttered the lad, burying his face in his hands. "no, she will never come to life. she has played her last part. but you must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a strange lurid fragment from some jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene from webster, or ford, or cyril tourneur. the girl never really lived, and so she has never really died. to you at least she was always a dream, a phantom that flitted through shakespeare's plays and left them lovelier for its presence, a reed through which shakespeare's music sounded richer and more full of joy. the moment she touched actual life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away. mourn for ophelia, if you like. put ashes on your head because cordelia was strangled. cry out against heaven because the daughter of brabantio died. but don't waste your tears over sibyl vane. she was less real than they are." there was a silence. the evening darkened in the room. noiselessly, and with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the garden. the colours faded wearily out of things. after some time dorian gray looked up. "you have explained me to myself, harry," he murmured with something of a sigh of relief. "i felt all that you have said, but somehow i was afraid of it, and i could not express it to myself. how well you know me! but we will not talk again of what has happened. it has been a marvellous experience. that is all. i wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous." "life has everything in store for you, dorian. there is nothing that you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do." "but suppose, harry, i became haggard, and old, and wrinkled? what then?" "ah, then," said lord henry, rising to go, "then, my dear dorian, you would have to fight for your victories. as it is, they are brought to you. no, you must keep your good looks. we live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. we cannot spare you. and now you had better dress and drive down to the club. we are rather late, as it is." "i think i shall join you at the opera, harry. i feel too tired to eat anything. what is the number of your sister's box?" "twenty-seven, i believe. it is on the grand tier. you will see her name on the door. but i am sorry you won't come and dine." "i don't feel up to it," said dorian listlessly. "but i am awfully obliged to you for all that you have said to me. you are certainly my best friend. no one has ever understood me as you have." "we are only at the beginning of our friendship, dorian," answered lord henry, shaking him by the hand. "good-bye. i shall see you before nine-thirty, i hope. remember, patti is singing." as he closed the door behind him, dorian gray touched the bell, and in a few minutes victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down. he waited impatiently for him to go. the man seemed to take an interminable time over everything. as soon as he had left, he rushed to the screen and drew it back. no; there was no further change in the picture. it had received the news of sibyl vane's death before he had known of it himself. it was conscious of the events of life as they occurred. the vicious cruelty that marred the fine lines of the mouth had, no doubt, appeared at the very moment that the girl had drunk the poison, whatever it was. or was it indifferent to results? did it merely take cognizance of what passed within the soul? he wondered, and hoped that some day he would see the change taking place before his very eyes, shuddering as he hoped it. poor sibyl! what a romance it had all been! she had often mimicked death on the stage. then death himself had touched her and taken her with him. how had she played that dreadful last scene? had she cursed him, as she died? no; she had died for love of him, and love would always be a sacrament to him now. she had atoned for everything by the sacrifice she had made of her life. he would not think any more of what she had made him go through, on that horrible night at the theatre. when he thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent on to the world's stage to show the supreme reality of love. a wonderful tragic figure? tears came to his eyes as he remembered her childlike look, and winsome fanciful ways, and shy tremulous grace. he brushed them away hastily and looked again at the picture. he felt that the time had really come for making his choice. or had his choice already been made? yes, life had decided that for him--life, and his own infinite curiosity about life. eternal youth, infinite passion, pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins--he was to have all these things. the portrait was to bear the burden of his shame: that was all. a feeling of pain crept over him as he thought of the desecration that was in store for the fair face on the canvas. once, in boyish mockery of narcissus, he had kissed, or feigned to kiss, those painted lips that now smiled so cruelly at him. morning after morning he had sat before the portrait wondering at its beauty, almost enamoured of it, as it seemed to him at times. was it to alter now with every mood to which he yielded? was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair? the pity of it! the pity of it! for a moment, he thought of praying that the horrible sympathy that existed between him and the picture might cease. it had changed in answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain unchanged. and yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught? besides, was it really under his control? had it indeed been prayer that had produced the substitution? might there not be some curious scientific reason for it all? if thought could exercise its influence upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon dead and inorganic things? nay, without thought or conscious desire, might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity? but the reason was of no importance. he would never again tempt by a prayer any terrible power. if the picture was to alter, it was to alter. that was all. why inquire too closely into it? for there would be a real pleasure in watching it. he would be able to follow his mind into its secret places. this portrait would be to him the most magical of mirrors. as it had revealed to him his own body, so it would reveal to him his own soul. and when winter came upon it, he would still be standing where spring trembles on the verge of summer. when the blood crept from its face, and left behind a pallid mask of chalk with leaden eyes, he would keep the glamour of boyhood. not one blossom of his loveliness would ever fade. not one pulse of his life would ever weaken. like the gods of the greeks, he would be strong, and fleet, and joyous. what did it matter what happened to the coloured image on the canvas? he would be safe. that was everything. he drew the screen back into its former place in front of the picture, smiling as he did so, and passed into his bedroom, where his valet was already waiting for him. an hour later he was at the opera, and lord henry was leaning over his chair. chapter <UNK> as he was sitting at breakfast next morning, basil hallward was shown into the room. "i am so glad i have found you, dorian," he said gravely. "i called last night, and they told me you were at the opera. of course, i knew that was impossible. but i wish you had left word where you had really gone to. i passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy might be followed by another. i think you might have telegraphed for me when you heard of it first. i read of it quite by chance in a late edition of _the globe_ that i picked up at the club. i came here at once and was miserable at not finding you. i can't tell you how heart-broken i am about the whole thing. i know what you must suffer. but where were you? did you go down and see the girl's mother? for a moment i thought of following you there. they gave the address in the paper. somewhere in the euston road, isn't it? but i was afraid of intruding upon a sorrow that i could not lighten. poor woman! what a state she must be in! and her only child, too! what did she say about it all?" "my dear basil, how do i know?" murmured dorian gray, sipping some pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of venetian glass and looking dreadfully bored. "i was at the opera. you should have come on there. i met lady gwendolen, harry's sister, for the first time. we were in her box. she is perfectly charming; and patti sang divinely. don't talk about horrid subjects. if one doesn't talk about a thing, it has never happened. it is simply expression, as harry says, that gives reality to things. i may mention that she was not the woman's only child. there is a son, a charming fellow, i believe. but he is not on the stage. he is a sailor, or something. and now, tell me about yourself and what you are painting." "you went to the opera?" said hallward, speaking very slowly and with a strained touch of pain in his voice. "you went to the opera while sibyl vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? you can talk to me of other women being charming, and of patti singing divinely, before the girl you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? why, man, there are horrors in store for that little white body of hers!" "stop, basil! i won't hear it!" cried dorian, leaping to his feet. "you must not tell me about things. what is done is done. what is past is past." "you call yesterday the past?" "what has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? it is only shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion. a man who is master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a pleasure. i don't want to be at the mercy of my emotions. i want to use them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them." "dorian, this is horrible! something has changed you completely. you look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come down to my studio to sit for his picture. but you were simple, natural, and affectionate then. you were the most unspoiled creature in the whole world. now, i don't know what has come over you. you talk as if you had no heart, no pity in you. it is all harry's influence. i see that." the lad flushed up and, going to the window, looked out for a few moments on the green, flickering, sun-lashed garden. "i owe a great deal to harry, basil," he said at last, "more than i owe to you. you only taught me to be vain." "well, i am punished for that, dorian--or shall be some day." "i don't know what you mean, basil," he exclaimed, turning round. "i don't know what you want. what do you want?" "i want the dorian gray i used to paint," said the artist sadly. "basil," said the lad, going over to him and putting his hand on his shoulder, "you have come too late. yesterday, when i heard that sibyl vane had killed herself--" "killed herself! good heavens! is there no doubt about that?" cried hallward, looking up at him with an expression of horror. "my dear basil! surely you don't think it was a vulgar accident? of course she killed herself." the elder man buried his face in his hands. "how fearful," he muttered, and a shudder ran through him. "no," said dorian gray, "there is nothing fearful about it. it is one of the great romantic tragedies of the age. as a rule, people who act lead the most commonplace lives. they are good husbands, or faithful wives, or something tedious. you know what i mean--middle-class virtue and all that kind of thing. how different sibyl was! she lived her finest tragedy. she was always a heroine. the last night she played--the night you saw her--she acted badly because she had known the reality of love. when she knew its unreality, she died, as juliet might have died. she passed again into the sphere of art. there is something of the martyr about her. her death has all the pathetic uselessness of martyrdom, all its wasted beauty. but, as i was saying, you must not think i have not suffered. if you had come in yesterday at a particular moment--about half-past five, perhaps, or a quarter to six--you would have found me in tears. even harry, who was here, who brought me the news, in fact, had no idea what i was going through. i suffered immensely. then it passed away. i cannot repeat an emotion. no one can, except sentimentalists. and you are awfully unjust, basil. you come down here to console me. that is charming of you. you find me consoled, and you are furious. how like a sympathetic person! you remind me of a story harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some unjust law altered--i forget exactly what it was. finally he succeeded, and nothing could exceed his disappointment. he had absolutely nothing to do, almost died of _ennui_, and became a confirmed misanthrope. and besides, my dear old basil, if you really want to console me, teach me rather to forget what has happened, or to see it from a proper artistic point of view. was it not gautier who used to write about _la consolation des arts_? i remember picking up a little vellum-covered book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase. well, i am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could console one for all the miseries of life. i love beautiful things that one can touch and handle. old brocades, green bronzes, lacquer-work, carved ivories, exquisite surroundings, luxury, pomp--there is much to be got from all these. but the artistic temperament that they create, or at any rate reveal, is still more to me. to become the spectator of one's own life, as harry says, is to escape the suffering of life. i know you are surprised at my talking to you like this. you have not realized how i have developed. i was a schoolboy when you knew me. i am a man now. i have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas. i am different, but you must not like me less. i am changed, but you must always be my friend. of course, i am very fond of harry. but i know that you are better than he is. you are not stronger--you are too much afraid of life--but you are better. and how happy we used to be together! don't leave me, basil, and don't quarrel with me. i am what i am. there is nothing more to be said." the painter felt strangely moved. the lad was infinitely dear to him, and his personality had been the great turning point in his art. he could not bear the idea of reproaching him any more. after all, his indifference was probably merely a mood that would pass away. there was so much in him that was good, so much in him that was noble. "well, dorian," he said at length, with a sad smile, "i won't speak to you again about this horrible thing, after to-day. i only trust your name won't be mentioned in connection with it. the inquest is to take place this afternoon. have they summoned you?" dorian shook his head, and a look of annoyance passed over his face at the mention of the word "inquest." there was something so crude and vulgar about everything of the kind. "they don't know my name," he answered. "but surely she did?" "only my christian name, and that i am quite sure she never mentioned to any one. she told me once that they were all rather curious to learn who i was, and that she invariably told them my name was prince charming. it was pretty of her. you must do me a drawing of sibyl, basil. i should like to have something more of her than the memory of a few kisses and some broken pathetic words." "i will try and do something, dorian, if it would please you. but you must come and sit to me yourself again. i can't get on without you." "i can never sit to you again, basil. it is impossible!" he exclaimed, starting back. the painter stared at him. "my dear boy, what nonsense!" he cried. "do you mean to say you don't like what i did of you? where is it? why have you pulled the screen in front of it? let me look at it. it is the best thing i have ever done. do take the screen away, dorian. it is simply disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that. i felt the room looked different as i came in." "my servant has nothing to do with it, basil. you don't imagine i let him arrange my room for me? he settles my flowers for me sometimes--that is all. no; i did it myself. the light was too strong on the portrait." "too strong! surely not, my dear fellow? it is an admirable place for it. let me see it." and hallward walked towards the corner of the room. a cry of terror broke from dorian gray's lips, and he rushed between the painter and the screen. "basil," he said, looking very pale, "you must not look at it. i don't wish you to." "not look at my own work! you are not serious. why shouldn't i look at it?" exclaimed hallward, laughing. "if you try to look at it, basil, on my word of honour i will never speak to you again as long as i live. i am quite serious. i don't offer any explanation, and you are not to ask for any. but, remember, if you touch this screen, everything is over between us." hallward was thunderstruck. he looked at dorian gray in absolute amazement. he had never seen him like this before. the lad was actually pallid with rage. his hands were clenched, and the pupils of his eyes were like disks of blue fire. he was trembling all over. "dorian!" "don't speak!" "but what is the matter? of course i won't look at it if you don't want me to," he said, rather coldly, turning on his heel and going over towards the window. "but, really, it seems rather absurd that i shouldn't see my own work, especially as i am going to exhibit it in paris in the autumn. i shall probably have to give it another coat of varnish before that, so i must see it some day, and why not to-day?" "to exhibit it! you want to exhibit it?" exclaimed dorian gray, a strange sense of terror creeping over him. was the world going to be shown his secret? were people to gape at the mystery of his life? that was impossible. something--he did not know what--had to be done at once. "yes; i don't suppose you will object to that. georges petit is going to collect all my best pictures for a special exhibition in the rue de seze, which will open the first week in october. the portrait will only be away a month. i should think you could easily spare it for that time. in fact, you are sure to be out of town. and if you keep it always behind a screen, you can't care much about it." dorian gray passed his hand over his forehead. there were beads of perspiration there. he felt that he was on the brink of a horrible danger. "you told me a month ago that you would never exhibit it," he cried. "why have you changed your mind? you people who go in for being consistent have just as many moods as others have. the only difference is that your moods are rather meaningless. you can't have forgotten that you assured me most solemnly that nothing in the world would induce you to send it to any exhibition. you told harry exactly the same thing." he stopped suddenly, and a gleam of light came into his eyes. he remembered that lord henry had said to him once, half seriously and half in jest, "if you want to have a strange quarter of an hour, get basil to tell you why he won't exhibit your picture. he told me why he wouldn't, and it was a revelation to me." yes, perhaps basil, too, had his secret. he would ask him and try. "basil," he said, coming over quite close and looking him straight in the face, "we have each of us a secret. let me know yours, and i shall tell you mine. what was your reason for refusing to exhibit my picture?" the painter shuddered in spite of himself. "dorian, if i told you, you might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me. i could not bear your doing either of those two things. if you wish me never to look at your picture again, i am content. i have always you to look at. if you wish the best work i have ever done to be hidden from the world, i am satisfied. your friendship is dearer to me than any fame or reputation." "no, basil, you must tell me," insisted dorian gray. "i think i have a right to know." his feeling of terror had passed away, and curiosity had taken its place. he was determined to find out basil hallward's mystery. "let us sit down, dorian," said the painter, looking troubled. "let us sit down. and just answer me one question. have you noticed in the picture something curious?--something that probably at first did not strike you, but that revealed itself to you suddenly?" "basil!" cried the lad, clutching the arms of his chair with trembling hands and gazing at him with wild startled eyes. "i see you did. don't speak. wait till you hear what i have to say. dorian, from the moment i met you, your personality had the most extraordinary influence over me. i was dominated, soul, brain, and power, by you. you became to me the visible incarnation of that unseen ideal whose memory haunts us artists like an exquisite dream. i worshipped you. i grew jealous of every one to whom you spoke. i wanted to have you all to myself. i was only happy when i was with you. when you were away from me, you were still present in my art.... of course, i never let you know anything about this. it would have been impossible. you would not have understood it. i hardly understood it myself. i only knew that i had seen perfection face to face, and that the world had become wonderful to my eyes--too wonderful, perhaps, for in such mad worships there is peril, the peril of losing them, no less than the peril of keeping them.... weeks and weeks went on, and i grew more and more absorbed in you. then came a new development. i had drawn you as paris in dainty armour, and as adonis with huntsman's cloak and polished boar-spear. crowned with heavy lotus-blossoms you had sat on the prow of adrian's barge, gazing across the green turbid nile. you had leaned over the still pool of some greek woodland and seen in the water's silent silver the marvel of your own face. and it had all been what art should be--unconscious, ideal, and remote. one day, a fatal day i sometimes think, i determined to paint a wonderful portrait of you as you actually are, not in the costume of dead ages, but in your own dress and in your own time. whether it was the realism of the method, or the mere wonder of your own personality, thus directly presented to me without mist or veil, i cannot tell. but i know that as i worked at it, every flake and film of colour seemed to me to reveal my secret. i grew afraid that others would know of my idolatry. i felt, dorian, that i had told too much, that i had put too much of myself into it. then it was that i resolved never to allow the picture to be exhibited. you were a little annoyed; but then you did not realize all that it meant to me. harry, to whom i talked about it, laughed at me. but i did not mind that. when the picture was finished, and i sat alone with it, i felt that i was right.... well, after a few days the thing left my studio, and as soon as i had got rid of the intolerable fascination of its presence, it seemed to me that i had been foolish in imagining that i had seen anything in it, more than that you were extremely good-looking and that i could paint. even now i cannot help feeling that it is a mistake to think that the passion one feels in creation is ever really shown in the work one creates. art is always more abstract than we fancy. form and colour tell us of form and colour--that is all. it often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely than it ever reveals him. and so when i got this offer from paris, i determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition. it never occurred to me that you would refuse. i see now that you were right. the picture cannot be shown. you must not be angry with me, dorian, for what i have told you. as i said to harry, once, you are made to be worshipped." dorian gray drew a long breath. the colour came back to his cheeks, and a smile played about his lips. the peril was over. he was safe for the time. yet he could not help feeling infinite pity for the painter who had just made this strange confession to him, and wondered if he himself would ever be so dominated by the personality of a friend. lord henry had the charm of being very dangerous. but that was all. he was too clever and too cynical to be really fond of. would there ever be some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry? was that one of the things that life had in store? "it is extraordinary to me, dorian," said hallward, "that you should have seen this in the portrait. did you really see it?" "i saw something in it," he answered, "something that seemed to me very curious." "well, you don't mind my looking at the thing now?" dorian shook his head. "you must not ask me that, basil. i could not possibly let you stand in front of that picture." "you will some day, surely?" "never." "well, perhaps you are right. and now good-bye, dorian. you have been the one person in my life who has really influenced my art. whatever i have done that is good, i owe to you. ah! you don't know what it cost me to tell you all that i have told you." "my dear basil," said dorian, "what have you told me? simply that you felt that you admired me too much. that is not even a compliment." "it was not intended as a compliment. it was a confession. now that i have made it, something seems to have gone out of me. perhaps one should never put one's worship into words." "it was a very disappointing confession." "why, what did you expect, dorian? you didn't see anything else in the picture, did you? there was nothing else to see?" "no; there was nothing else to see. why do you ask? but you mustn't talk about worship. it is foolish. you and i are friends, basil, and we must always remain so." "you have got harry," said the painter sadly. "oh, harry!" cried the lad, with a ripple of laughter. "harry spends his days in saying what is incredible and his evenings in doing what is improbable. just the sort of life i would like to lead. but still i don't think i would go to harry if i were in trouble. i would sooner go to you, basil." "you will sit to me again?" "impossible!" "you spoil my life as an artist by refusing, dorian. no man comes across two ideal things. few come across one." "i can't explain it to you, basil, but i must never sit to you again. there is something fatal about a portrait. it has a life of its own. i will come and have tea with you. that will be just as pleasant." "pleasanter for you, i am afraid," murmured hallward regretfully. "and now good-bye. i am sorry you won't let me look at the picture once again. but that can't be helped. i quite understand what you feel about it." as he left the room, dorian gray smiled to himself. poor basil! how little he knew of the true reason! and how strange it was that, instead of having been forced to reveal his own secret, he had succeeded, almost by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! how much that strange confession explained to him! the painter's absurd fits of jealousy, his wild devotion, his extravagant panegyrics, his curious reticences--he understood them all now, and he felt sorry. there seemed to him to be something tragic in a friendship so coloured by romance. he sighed and touched the bell. the portrait must be hidden away at all costs. he could not run such a risk of discovery again. it had been mad of him to have allowed the thing to remain, even for an hour, in a room to which any of his friends had access. chapter <UNK> when his servant entered, he looked at him steadfastly and wondered if he had thought of peering behind the screen. the man was quite impassive and waited for his orders. dorian lit a cigarette and walked over to the glass and glanced into it. he could see the reflection of victor's face perfectly. it was like a placid mask of servility. there was nothing to be afraid of, there. yet he thought it best to be on his guard. speaking very slowly, he told him to tell the house-keeper that he wanted to see her, and then to go to the frame-maker and ask him to send two of his men round at once. it seemed to him that as the man left the room his eyes wandered in the direction of the screen. or was that merely his own fancy? after a few moments, in her black silk dress, with old-fashioned thread mittens on her wrinkled hands, mrs. leaf bustled into the library. he asked her for the key of the schoolroom. "the old schoolroom, mr. dorian?" she exclaimed. "why, it is full of dust. i must get it arranged and put straight before you go into it. it is not fit for you to see, sir. it is not, indeed." "i don't want it put straight, leaf. i only want the key." "well, sir, you'll be covered with cobwebs if you go into it. why, it hasn't been opened for nearly five years--not since his lordship died." he winced at the mention of his grandfather. he had hateful memories of him. "that does not matter," he answered. "i simply want to see the place--that is all. give me the key." "and here is the key, sir," said the old lady, going over the contents of her bunch with tremulously uncertain hands. "here is the key. i'll have it off the bunch in a moment. but you don't think of living up there, sir, and you so comfortable here?" "no, no," he cried petulantly. "thank you, leaf. that will do." she lingered for a few moments, and was garrulous over some detail of the household. he sighed and told her to manage things as she thought best. she left the room, wreathed in smiles. as the door closed, dorian put the key in his pocket and looked round the room. his eye fell on a large, purple satin coverlet heavily embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late seventeenth-century venetian work that his grandfather had found in a convent near bologna. yes, that would serve to wrap the dreadful thing in. it had perhaps served often as a pall for the dead. now it was to hide something that had a corruption of its own, worse than the corruption of death itself--something that would breed horrors and yet would never die. what the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on the canvas. they would mar its beauty and eat away its grace. they would defile it and make it shameful. and yet the thing would still live on. it would be always alive. he shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told basil the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away. basil would have helped him to resist lord henry's influence, and the still more poisonous influences that came from his own temperament. the love that he bore him--for it was really love--had nothing in it that was not noble and intellectual. it was not that mere physical admiration of beauty that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire. it was such love as michelangelo had known, and montaigne, and winckelmann, and shakespeare himself. yes, basil could have saved him. but it was too late now. the past could always be annihilated. regret, denial, or forgetfulness could do that. but the future was inevitable. there were passions in him that would find their terrible outlet, dreams that would make the shadow of their evil real. he took up from the couch the great purple-and-gold texture that covered it, and, holding it in his hands, passed behind the screen. was the face on the canvas viler than before? it seemed to him that it was unchanged, and yet his loathing of it was intensified. gold hair, blue eyes, and rose-red lips--they all were there. it was simply the expression that had altered. that was horrible in its cruelty. compared to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow basil's reproaches about sibyl vane had been!--how shallow, and of what little account! his own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and calling him to judgement. a look of pain came across him, and he flung the rich pall over the picture. as he did so, a knock came to the door. he passed out as his servant entered. "the persons are here, monsieur." he felt that the man must be got rid of at once. he must not be allowed to know where the picture was being taken to. there was something sly about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes. sitting down at the writing-table he scribbled a note to lord henry, asking him to send him round something to read and reminding him that they were to meet at eight-fifteen that evening. "wait for an answer," he said, handing it to him, "and show the men in here." in two or three minutes there was another knock, and mr. hubbard himself, the celebrated frame-maker of south audley street, came in with a somewhat rough-looking young assistant. mr. hubbard was a florid, red-whiskered little man, whose admiration for art was considerably tempered by the inveterate impecuniosity of most of the artists who dealt with him. as a rule, he never left his shop. he waited for people to come to him. but he always made an exception in favour of dorian gray. there was something about dorian that charmed everybody. it was a pleasure even to see him. "what can i do for you, mr. gray?" he said, rubbing his fat freckled hands. "i thought i would do myself the honour of coming round in person. i have just got a beauty of a frame, sir. picked it up at a sale. old florentine. came from fonthill, i believe. admirably suited for a religious subject, mr. gray." "i am so sorry you have given yourself the trouble of coming round, mr. hubbard. i shall certainly drop in and look at the frame--though i don't go in much at present for religious art--but to-day i only want a picture carried to the top of the house for me. it is rather heavy, so i thought i would ask you to lend me a couple of your men." "no trouble at all, mr. gray. i am delighted to be of any service to you. which is the work of art, sir?" "this," replied dorian, moving the screen back. "can you move it, covering and all, just as it is? i don't want it to get scratched going upstairs." "there will be no difficulty, sir," said the genial frame-maker, beginning, with the aid of his assistant, to unhook the picture from the long brass chains by which it was suspended. "and, now, where shall we carry it to, mr. gray?" "i will show you the way, mr. hubbard, if you will kindly follow me. or perhaps you had better go in front. i am afraid it is right at the top of the house. we will go up by the front staircase, as it is wider." he held the door open for them, and they passed out into the hall and began the ascent. the elaborate character of the frame had made the picture extremely bulky, and now and then, in spite of the obsequious protests of mr. hubbard, who had the true tradesman's spirited dislike of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, dorian put his hand to it so as to help them. "something of a load to carry, sir," gasped the little man when they reached the top landing. and he wiped his shiny forehead. "i am afraid it is rather heavy," murmured dorian as he unlocked the door that opened into the room that was to keep for him the curious secret of his life and hide his soul from the eyes of men. he had not entered the place for more than four years--not, indeed, since he had used it first as a play-room when he was a child, and then as a study when he grew somewhat older. it was a large, well-proportioned room, which had been specially built by the last lord kelso for the use of the little grandson whom, for his strange likeness to his mother, and also for other reasons, he had always hated and desired to keep at a distance. it appeared to dorian to have but little changed. there was the huge italian _cassone_, with its fantastically painted panels and its tarnished gilt mouldings, in which he had so often hidden himself as a boy. there the satinwood book-case filled with his dog-eared schoolbooks. on the wall behind it was hanging the same ragged flemish tapestry where a faded king and queen were playing chess in a garden, while a company of hawkers rode by, carrying hooded birds on their gauntleted wrists. how well he remembered it all! every moment of his lonely childhood came back to him as he looked round. he recalled the stainless purity of his boyish life, and it seemed horrible to him that it was here the fatal portrait was to be hidden away. how little he had thought, in those dead days, of all that was in store for him! but there was no other place in the house so secure from prying eyes as this. he had the key, and no one else could enter it. beneath its purple pall, the face painted on the canvas could grow bestial, sodden, and unclean. what did it matter? no one could see it. he himself would not see it. why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul? he kept his youth--that was enough. and, besides, might not his nature grow finer, after all? there was no reason that the future should be so full of shame. some love might come across his life, and purify him, and shield him from those sins that seemed to be already stirring in spirit and in flesh--those curious unpictured sins whose very mystery lent them their subtlety and their charm. perhaps, some day, the cruel look would have passed away from the scarlet sensitive mouth, and he might show to the world basil hallward's masterpiece. no; that was impossible. hour by hour, and week by week, the thing upon the canvas was growing old. it might escape the hideousness of sin, but the hideousness of age was in store for it. the cheeks would become hollow or flaccid. yellow crow's feet would creep round the fading eyes and make them horrible. the hair would lose its brightness, the mouth would gape or droop, would be foolish or gross, as the mouths of old men are. there would be the wrinkled throat, the cold, blue-veined hands, the twisted body, that he remembered in the grandfather who had been so stern to him in his boyhood. the picture had to be concealed. there was no help for it. "bring it in, mr. hubbard, please," he said, wearily, turning round. "i am sorry i kept you so long. i was thinking of something else." "always glad to have a rest, mr. gray," answered the frame-maker, who was still gasping for breath. "where shall we put it, sir?" "oh, anywhere. here: this will do. i don't want to have it hung up. just lean it against the wall. thanks." "might one look at the work of art, sir?" dorian started. "it would not interest you, mr. hubbard," he said, keeping his eye on the man. he felt ready to leap upon him and fling him to the ground if he dared to lift the gorgeous hanging that concealed the secret of his life. "i shan't trouble you any more now. i am much obliged for your kindness in coming round." "not at all, not at all, mr. gray. ever ready to do anything for you, sir." and mr. hubbard tramped downstairs, followed by the assistant, who glanced back at dorian with a look of shy wonder in his rough uncomely face. he had never seen any one so marvellous. when the sound of their footsteps had died away, dorian locked the door and put the key in his pocket. he felt safe now. no one would ever look upon the horrible thing. no eye but his would ever see his shame. on reaching the library, he found that it was just after five o'clock and that the tea had been already brought up. on a little table of dark perfumed wood thickly incrusted with nacre, a present from lady radley, his guardian's wife, a pretty professional invalid who had spent the preceding winter in cairo, was lying a note from lord henry, and beside it was a book bound in yellow paper, the cover slightly torn and the edges soiled. a copy of the third edition of _the st. james's gazette_ had been placed on the tea-tray. it was evident that victor had returned. he wondered if he had met the men in the hall as they were leaving the house and had wormed out of them what they had been doing. he would be sure to miss the picture--had no doubt missed it already, while he had been laying the tea-things. the screen had not been set back, and a blank space was visible on the wall. perhaps some night he might find him creeping upstairs and trying to force the door of the room. it was a horrible thing to have a spy in one's house. he had heard of rich men who had been blackmailed all their lives by some servant who had read a letter, or overheard a conversation, or picked up a card with an address, or found beneath a pillow a withered flower or a shred of crumpled lace. he sighed, and having poured himself out some tea, opened lord henry's note. it was simply to say that he sent him round the evening paper, and a book that might interest him, and that he would be at the club at eight-fifteen. he opened _the st. james's_ languidly, and looked through it. a red pencil-mark on the fifth page caught his eye. it drew attention to the following paragraph: inquest on an actress.--an inquest was held this morning at the bell tavern, hoxton road, by mr. danby, the district coroner, on the body of sibyl vane, a young actress recently engaged at the royal theatre, holborn. a verdict of death by misadventure was returned. considerable sympathy was expressed for the mother of the deceased, who was greatly affected during the giving of her own evidence, and that of dr. birrell, who had made the post-mortem examination of the deceased. he frowned, and tearing the paper in two, went across the room and flung the pieces away. how ugly it all was! and how horribly real ugliness made things! he felt a little annoyed with lord henry for having sent him the report. and it was certainly stupid of him to have marked it with red pencil. victor might have read it. the man knew more than enough english for that. perhaps he had read it and had begun to suspect something. and, yet, what did it matter? what had dorian gray to do with sibyl vane's death? there was nothing to fear. dorian gray had not killed her. his eye fell on the yellow book that lord henry had sent him. what was it, he wondered. he went towards the little, pearl-coloured octagonal stand that had always looked to him like the work of some strange egyptian bees that wrought in silver, and taking up the volume, flung himself into an arm-chair and began to turn over the leaves. after a few minutes he became absorbed. it was the strangest book that he had ever read. it seemed to him that in exquisite raiment, and to the delicate sound of flutes, the sins of the world were passing in dumb show before him. things that he had dimly dreamed of were suddenly made real to him. things of which he had never dreamed were gradually revealed. it was a novel without a plot and with only one character, being, indeed, simply a psychological study of a certain young parisian who spent his life trying to realize in the nineteenth century all the passions and modes of thought that belonged to every century except his own, and to sum up, as it were, in himself the various moods through which the world-spirit had ever passed, loving for their mere artificiality those renunciations that men have unwisely called virtue, as much as those natural rebellions that wise men still call sin. the style in which it was written was that curious jewelled style, vivid and obscure at once, full of _argot_ and of archaisms, of technical expressions and of elaborate paraphrases, that characterizes the work of some of the finest artists of the french school of _symbolistes_. there were in it metaphors as monstrous as orchids and as subtle in colour. the life of the senses was described in the terms of mystical philosophy. one hardly knew at times whether one was reading the spiritual ecstasies of some mediaeval saint or the morbid confessions of a modern sinner. it was a poisonous book. the heavy odour of incense seemed to cling about its pages and to trouble the brain. the mere cadence of the sentences, the subtle monotony of their music, so full as it was of complex refrains and movements elaborately repeated, produced in the mind of the lad, as he passed from chapter to chapter, a form of reverie, a malady of dreaming, that made him unconscious of the falling day and creeping shadows. cloudless, and pierced by one solitary star, a copper-green sky gleamed through the windows. he read on by its wan light till he could read no more. then, after his valet had reminded him several times of the lateness of the hour, he got up, and going into the next room, placed the book on the little florentine table that always stood at his bedside and began to dress for dinner. it was almost nine o'clock before he reached the club, where he found lord henry sitting alone, in the morning-room, looking very much bored. "i am so sorry, harry," he cried, "but really it is entirely your fault. that book you sent me so fascinated me that i forgot how the time was going." "yes, i thought you would like it," replied his host, rising from his chair. "i didn't say i liked it, harry. i said it fascinated me. there is a great difference." "ah, you have discovered that?" murmured lord henry. and they passed into the dining-room. chapter <UNK> for years, dorian gray could not free himself from the influence of this book. or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he never sought to free himself from it. he procured from paris no less than nine large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in different colours, so that they might suit his various moods and the changing fancies of a nature over which he seemed, at times, to have almost entirely lost control. the hero, the wonderful young parisian in whom the romantic and the scientific temperaments were so strangely blended, became to him a kind of prefiguring type of himself. and, indeed, the whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own life, written before he had lived it. in one point he was more fortunate than the novel's fantastic hero. he never knew--never, indeed, had any cause to know--that somewhat grotesque dread of mirrors, and polished metal surfaces, and still water which came upon the young parisian so early in his life, and was occasioned by the sudden decay of a beau that had once, apparently, been so remarkable. it was with an almost cruel joy--and perhaps in nearly every joy, as certainly in every pleasure, cruelty has its place--that he used to read the latter part of the book, with its really tragic, if somewhat overemphasized, account of the sorrow and despair of one who had himself lost what in others, and the world, he had most dearly valued. for the wonderful beauty that had so fascinated basil hallward, and many others besides him, seemed never to leave him. even those who had heard the most evil things against him--and from time to time strange rumours about his mode of life crept through london and became the chatter of the clubs--could not believe anything to his dishonour when they saw him. he had always the look of one who had kept himself unspotted from the world. men who talked grossly became silent when dorian gray entered the room. there was something in the purity of his face that rebuked them. his mere presence seemed to recall to them the memory of the innocence that they had tarnished. they wondered how one so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an age that was at once sordid and sensual. often, on returning home from one of those mysterious and prolonged absences that gave rise to such strange conjecture among those who were his friends, or thought that they were so, he himself would creep upstairs to the locked room, open the door with the key that never left him now, and stand, with a mirror, in front of the portrait that basil hallward had painted of him, looking now at the evil and aging face on the canvas, and now at the fair young face that laughed back at him from the polished glass. the very sharpness of the contrast used to quicken his sense of pleasure. he grew more and more enamoured of his own beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul. he would examine with minute care, and sometimes with a monstrous and terrible delight, the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead or crawled around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which were the more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age. he would place his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture, and smile. he mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs. there were moments, indeed, at night, when, lying sleepless in his own delicately scented chamber, or in the sordid room of the little ill-famed tavern near the docks which, under an assumed name and in disguise, it was his habit to frequent, he would think of the ruin he had brought upon his soul with a pity that was all the more poignant because it was purely selfish. but moments such as these were rare. that curiosity about life which lord henry had first stirred in him, as they sat together in the garden of their friend, seemed to increase with gratification. the more he knew, the more he desired to know. he had mad hungers that grew more ravenous as he fed them. yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to society. once or twice every month during the winter, and on each wednesday evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to the world his beautiful house and have the most celebrated musicians of the day to charm his guests with the wonders of their art. his little dinners, in the settling of which lord henry always assisted him, were noted as much for the careful selection and placing of those invited, as for the exquisite taste shown in the decoration of the table, with its subtle symphonic arrangements of exotic flowers, and embroidered cloths, and antique plate of gold and silver. indeed, there were many, especially among the very young men, who saw, or fancied that they saw, in dorian gray the true realization of a type of which they had often dreamed in eton or oxford days, a type that was to combine something of the real culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction and perfect manner of a citizen of the world. to them he seemed to be of the company of those whom dante describes as having sought to "make themselves perfect by the worship of beauty." like gautier, he was one for whom "the visible world existed." and, certainly, to him life itself was the first, the greatest, of the arts, and for it all the other arts seemed to be but a preparation. fashion, by which what is really fantastic becomes for a moment universal, and dandyism, which, in its own way, is an attempt to assert the absolute modernity of beauty, had, of course, their fascination for him. his mode of dressing, and the particular styles that from time to time he affected, had their marked influence on the young exquisites of the mayfair balls and pall mall club windows, who copied him in everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of his graceful, though to him only half-serious, fopperies. for, while he was but too ready to accept the position that was almost immediately offered to him on his coming of age, and found, indeed, a subtle pleasure in the thought that he might really become to the london of his own day what to imperial neronian rome the author of the satyricon once had been, yet in his inmost heart he desired to be something more than a mere _arbiter elegantiarum_, to be consulted on the wearing of a jewel, or the knotting of a necktie, or the conduct of a cane. he sought to elaborate some new scheme of life that would have its reasoned philosophy and its ordered principles, and find in the spiritualizing of the senses its highest realization. the worship of the senses has often, and with much justice, been decried, men feeling a natural instinct of terror about passions and sensations that seem stronger than themselves, and that they are conscious of sharing with the less highly organized forms of existence. but it appeared to dorian gray that the true nature of the senses had never been understood, and that they had remained savage and animal merely because the world had sought to starve them into submission or to kill them by pain, instead of aiming at making them elements of a new spirituality, of which a fine instinct for beauty was to be the dominant characteristic. as he looked back upon man moving through history, he was haunted by a feeling of loss. so much had been surrendered! and to such little purpose! there had been mad wilful rejections, monstrous forms of self-torture and self-denial, whose origin was fear and whose result was a degradation infinitely more terrible than that fancied degradation from which, in their ignorance, they had sought to escape; nature, in her wonderful irony, driving out the anchorite to feed with the wild animals of the desert and giving to the hermit the beasts of the field as his companions. yes: there was to be, as lord henry had prophesied, a new hedonism that was to recreate life and to save it from that harsh uncomely puritanism that is having, in our own day, its curious revival. it was to have its service of the intellect, certainly, yet it was never to accept any theory or system that would involve the sacrifice of any mode of passionate experience. its aim, indeed, was to be experience itself, and not the fruits of experience, sweet or bitter as they might be. of the asceticism that deadens the senses, as of the vulgar profligacy that dulls them, it was to know nothing. but it was to teach man to concentrate himself upon the moments of a life that is itself but a moment. there are few of us who have not sometimes wakened before dawn, either after one of those dreamless nights that make us almost enamoured of death, or one of those nights of horror and misshapen joy, when through the chambers of the brain sweep phantoms more terrible than reality itself, and instinct with that vivid life that lurks in all grotesques, and that lends to gothic art its enduring vitality, this art being, one might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled with the malady of reverie. gradually white fingers creep through the curtains, and they appear to tremble. in black fantastic shapes, dumb shadows crawl into the corners of the room and crouch there. outside, there is the stirring of birds among the leaves, or the sound of men going forth to their work, or the sigh and sob of the wind coming down from the hills and wandering round the silent house, as though it feared to wake the sleepers and yet must needs call forth sleep from her purple cave. veil after veil of thin dusky gauze is lifted, and by degrees the forms and colours of things are restored to them, and we watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern. the wan mirrors get back their mimic life. the flameless tapers stand where we had left them, and beside them lies the half-cut book that we had been studying, or the wired flower that we had worn at the ball, or the letter that we had been afraid to read, or that we had read too often. nothing seems to us changed. out of the unreal shadows of the night comes back the real life that we had known. we have to resume it where we had left off, and there steals over us a terrible sense of the necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of stereotyped habits, or a wild longing, it may be, that our eyelids might open some morning upon a world that had been refashioned anew in the darkness for our pleasure, a world in which things would have fresh shapes and colours, and be changed, or have other secrets, a world in which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate, in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of joy having its bitterness and the memories of pleasure their pain. it was the creation of such worlds as these that seemed to dorian gray to be the true object, or amongst the true objects, of life; and in his search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really alien to his nature, abandon himself to their subtle influences, and then, having, as it were, caught their colour and satisfied his intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that is not incompatible with a real ardour of temperament, and that, indeed, according to certain modern psychologists, is often a condition of it. it was rumoured of him once that he was about to join the roman catholic communion, and certainly the roman ritual had always a great attraction for him. the daily sacrifice, more awful really than all the sacrifices of the antique world, stirred him as much by its superb rejection of the evidence of the senses as by the primitive simplicity of its elements and the eternal pathos of the human tragedy that it sought to symbolize. he loved to kneel down on the cold marble pavement and watch the priest, in his stiff flowered dalmatic, slowly and with white hands moving aside the veil of the tabernacle, or raising aloft the jewelled, lantern-shaped monstrance with that pallid wafer that at times, one would fain think, is indeed the "_panis caelestis_," the bread of angels, or, robed in the garments of the passion of christ, breaking the host into the chalice and smiting his breast for his sins. the fuming censers that the grave boys, in their lace and scarlet, tossed into the air like great gilt flowers had their subtle fascination for him. as he passed out, he used to look with wonder at the black confessionals and long to sit in the dim shadow of one of them and listen to men and women whispering through the worn grating the true story of their lives. but he never fell into the error of arresting his intellectual development by any formal acceptance of creed or system, or of mistaking, for a house in which to live, an inn that is but suitable for the sojourn of a night, or for a few hours of a night in which there are no stars and the moon is in travail. mysticism, with its marvellous power of making common things strange to us, and the subtle antinomianism that always seems to accompany it, moved him for a season; and for a season he inclined to the materialistic doctrines of the _darwinismus_ movement in germany, and found a curious pleasure in tracing the thoughts and passions of men to some pearly cell in the brain, or some white nerve in the body, delighting in the conception of the absolute dependence of the spirit on certain physical conditions, morbid or healthy, normal or diseased. yet, as has been said of him before, no theory of life seemed to him to be of any importance compared with life itself. he felt keenly conscious of how barren all intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment. he knew that the senses, no less than the soul, have their spiritual mysteries to reveal. and so he would now study perfumes and the secrets of their manufacture, distilling heavily scented oils and burning odorous gums from the east. he saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not its counterpart in the sensuous life, and set himself to discover their true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one's passions, and in violets that woke the memory of dead romances, and in musk that troubled the brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often to elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate the several influences of sweet-smelling roots and scented, pollen-laden flowers; of aromatic balms and of dark and fragrant woods; of spikenard, that sickens; of hovenia, that makes men mad; and of aloes, that are said to be able to expel melancholy from the soul. at another time he devoted himself entirely to music, and in a long latticed room, with a vermilion-and-gold ceiling and walls of olive-green lacquer, he used to give curious concerts in which mad gipsies tore wild music from little zithers, or grave, yellow-shawled tunisians plucked at the strained strings of monstrous lutes, while grinning negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums and, crouching upon scarlet mats, slim turbaned indians blew through long pipes of reed or brass and charmed--or feigned to charm--great hooded snakes and horrible horned adders. the harsh intervals and shrill discords of barbaric music stirred him at times when schubert's grace, and chopin's beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of beethoven himself, fell unheeded on his ear. he collected together from all parts of the world the strangest instruments that could be found, either in the tombs of dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact with western civilizations, and loved to touch and try them. he had the mysterious _juruparis_ of the rio negro indians, that women are not allowed to look at and that even youths may not see till they have been subjected to fasting and scourging, and the earthen jars of the peruvians that have the shrill cries of birds, and flutes of human bones such as alfonso de ovalle heard in chile, and the sonorous green jaspers that are found near cuzco and give forth a note of singular sweetness. he had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when they were shaken; the long _clarin_ of the mexicans, into which the performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the harsh _ture_ of the amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who sit all day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a distance of three leagues; the _teponaztli_, that has two vibrating tongues of wood and is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the _yotl_-bells of the aztecs, that are hung in clusters like grapes; and a huge cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the one that bernal diaz saw when he went with cortes into the mexican temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a description. the fantastic character of these instruments fascinated him, and he felt a curious delight in the thought that art, like nature, has her monsters, things of bestial shape and with hideous voices. yet, after some time, he wearied of them, and would sit in his box at the opera, either alone or with lord henry, listening in rapt pleasure to "tannhauser" and seeing in the prelude to that great work of art a presentation of the tragedy of his own soul. on one occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a costume ball as anne de joyeuse, admiral of france, in a dress covered with five hundred and sixty pearls. this taste enthralled him for years, and, indeed, may be said never to have left him. he would often spend a whole day settling and resettling in their cases the various stones that he had collected, such as the olive-green chrysoberyl that turns red by lamplight, the cymophane with its wirelike line of silver, the pistachio-coloured peridot, rose-pink and wine-yellow topazes, carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous, four-rayed stars, flame-red cinnamon-stones, orange and violet spinels, and amethysts with their alternate layers of ruby and sapphire. he loved the red gold of the sunstone, and the moonstone's pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow of the milky opal. he procured from amsterdam three emeralds of extraordinary size and richness of colour, and had a turquoise _de la vieille roche_ that was the envy of all the connoisseurs. he discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels. in alphonso's clericalis disciplina a serpent was mentioned with eyes of real jacinth, and in the romantic history of alexander, the conqueror of emathia was said to have found in the vale of jordan snakes "with collars of real emeralds growing on their backs." there was a gem in the brain of the dragon, philostratus told us, and "by the exhibition of golden letters and a scarlet robe" the monster could be thrown into a magical sleep and slain. according to the great alchemist, pierre de boniface, the diamond rendered a man invisible, and the agate of india made him eloquent. the cornelian appeased anger, and the hyacinth provoked sleep, and the amethyst drove away the fumes of wine. the garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her colour. the selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus, that discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids. leonardus camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a newly killed toad, that was a certain antidote against poison. the bezoar, that was found in the heart of the arabian deer, was a charm that could cure the plague. in the nests of arabian birds was the aspilates, that, according to democritus, kept the wearer from any danger by fire. the king of ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in his hand, as the ceremony of his coronation. the gates of the palace of john the priest were "made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake inwrought, so that no man might bring poison within." over the gable were "two golden apples, in which were two carbuncles," so that the gold might shine by day and the carbuncles by night. in lodge's strange romance 'a margarite of america', it was stated that in the chamber of the queen one could behold "all the chaste ladies of the world, inchased out of silver, looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites, carbuncles, sapphires, and greene emeraults." marco polo had seen the inhabitants of zipangu place rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the dead. a sea-monster had been enamoured of the pearl that the diver brought to king perozes, and had slain the thief, and mourned for seven moons over its loss. when the huns lured the king into the great pit, he flung it away--procopius tells the story--nor was it ever found again, though the emperor anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold pieces for it. the king of malabar had shown to a certain venetian a rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he worshipped. when the duke de valentinois, son of alexander vi, visited louis xii of france, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to brantome, and his cap had double rows of rubies that threw out a great light. charles of england had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred and twenty-one diamonds. richard ii had a coat, valued at thirty thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies. hall described henry viii, on his way to the tower previous to his coronation, as wearing "a jacket of raised gold, the placard embroidered with diamonds and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large balasses." the favourites of james i wore ear-rings of emeralds set in gold filigrane. edward ii gave to piers gaveston a suit of red-gold armour studded with jacinths, a collar of gold roses set with turquoise-stones, and a skull-cap _parseme_ with pearls. henry ii wore jewelled gloves reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with twelve rubies and fifty-two great orients. the ducal hat of charles the rash, the last duke of burgundy of his race, was hung with pear-shaped pearls and studded with sapphires. how exquisite life had once been! how gorgeous in its pomp and decoration! even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful. then he turned his attention to embroideries and to the tapestries that performed the office of frescoes in the chill rooms of the northern nations of europe. as he investigated the subject--and he always had an extraordinary faculty of becoming absolutely absorbed for the moment in whatever he took up--he was almost saddened by the reflection of the ruin that time brought on beautiful and wonderful things. he, at any rate, had escaped that. summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils bloomed and died many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of their shame, but he was unchanged. no winter marred his face or stained his flowerlike bloom. how different it was with material things! where had they passed to? where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on which the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls for the pleasure of athena? where the huge velarium that nero had stretched across the colosseum at rome, that titan sail of purple on which was represented the starry sky, and apollo driving a chariot drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds? he longed to see the curious table-napkins wrought for the priest of the sun, on which were displayed all the dainties and viands that could be wanted for a feast; the mortuary cloth of king chilperic, with its three hundred golden bees; the fantastic robes that excited the indignation of the bishop of pontus and were figured with "lions, panthers, bears, dogs, forests, rocks, hunters--all, in fact, that a painter can copy from nature"; and the coat that charles of orleans once wore, on the sleeves of which were embroidered the verses of a song beginning "_madame, je suis tout joyeux_," the musical accompaniment of the words being wrought in gold thread, and each note, of square shape in those days, formed with four pearls. he read of the room that was prepared at the palace at rheims for the use of queen joan of burgundy and was decorated with "thirteen hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the king's arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked in gold." catherine de medicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black velvet powdered with crescents and suns. its curtains were of damask, with leafy wreaths and garlands, figured upon a gold and silver ground, and fringed along the edges with broideries of pearls, and it stood in a room hung with rows of the queen's devices in cut black velvet upon cloth of silver. louis xiv had gold embroidered caryatides fifteen feet high in his apartment. the state bed of sobieski, king of poland, was made of smyrna gold brocade embroidered in turquoises with verses from the koran. its supports were of silver gilt, beautifully chased, and profusely set with enamelled and jewelled medallions. it had been taken from the turkish camp before vienna, and the standard of mohammed had stood beneath the tremulous gilt of its canopy. and so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most exquisite specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting the dainty delhi muslins, finely wrought with gold-thread palmates and stitched over with iridescent beetles' wings; the dacca gauzes, that from their transparency are known in the east as "woven air," and "running water," and "evening dew"; strange figured cloths from java; elaborate yellow chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair blue silks and wrought with _fleurs-de-lis_, birds and images; veils of _lacis_ worked in hungary point; sicilian brocades and stiff spanish velvets; georgian work, with its gilt coins, and japanese _foukousas_, with their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds. he had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed he had for everything connected with the service of the church. in the long cedar chests that lined the west gallery of his house, he had stored away many rare and beautiful specimens of what is really the raiment of the bride of christ, who must wear purple and jewels and fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by the suffering that she seeks for and wounded by self-inflicted pain. he possessed a gorgeous cope of crimson silk and gold-thread damask, figured with a repeating pattern of golden pomegranates set in six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond which on either side was the pine-apple device wrought in seed-pearls. the orphreys were divided into panels representing scenes from the life of the virgin, and the coronation of the virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood. this was italian work of the fifteenth century. another cope was of green velvet, embroidered with heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves, from which spread long-stemmed white blossoms, the details of which were picked out with silver thread and coloured crystals. the morse bore a seraph's head in gold-thread raised work. the orphreys were woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and were starred with medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was st. sebastian. he had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue silk and gold brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with representations of the passion and crucifixion of christ, and embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems; dalmatics of white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with tulips and dolphins and _fleurs-de-lis_; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen; and many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. in the mystic offices to which such things were put, there was something that quickened his imagination. for these treasures, and everything that he collected in his lovely house, were to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by which he could escape, for a season, from the fear that seemed to him at times to be almost too great to be borne. upon the walls of the lonely locked room where he had spent so much of his boyhood, he had hung with his own hands the terrible portrait whose changing features showed him the real degradation of his life, and in front of it had draped the purple-and-gold pall as a curtain. for weeks he would not go there, would forget the hideous painted thing, and get back his light heart, his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence. then, suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to dreadful places near blue gate fields, and stay there, day after day, until he was driven away. on his return he would sit in front of the picture, sometimes loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times, with that pride of individualism that is half the fascination of sin, and smiling with secret pleasure at the misshapen shadow that had to bear the burden that should have been his own. after a few years he could not endure to be long out of england, and gave up the villa that he had shared at trouville with lord henry, as well as the little white walled-in house at algiers where they had more than once spent the winter. he hated to be separated from the picture that was such a part of his life, and was also afraid that during his absence some one might gain access to the room, in spite of the elaborate bars that he had caused to be placed upon the door. he was quite conscious that this would tell them nothing. it was true that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn from that? he would laugh at any one who tried to taunt him. he had not painted it. what was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked? even if he told them, would they believe it? yet he was afraid. sometimes when he was down at his great house in nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not been tampered with and that the picture was still there. what if it should be stolen? the mere thought made him cold with horror. surely the world would know his secret then. perhaps the world already suspected it. for, while he fascinated many, there were not a few who distrusted him. he was very nearly blackballed at a west end club of which his birth and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was said that on one occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the smoking-room of the churchill, the duke of berwick and another gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out. curious stories became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year. it was rumoured that he had been seen brawling with foreign sailors in a low den in the distant parts of whitechapel, and that he consorted with thieves and coiners and knew the mysteries of their trade. his extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though they were determined to discover his secret. of such insolences and attempted slights he, of course, took no notice, and in the opinion of most people his frank debonair manner, his charming boyish smile, and the infinite grace of that wonderful youth that seemed never to leave him, were in themselves a sufficient answer to the calumnies, for so they termed them, that were circulated about him. it was remarked, however, that some of those who had been most intimate with him appeared, after a time, to shun him. women who had wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with shame or horror if dorian gray entered the room. yet these whispered scandals only increased in the eyes of many his strange and dangerous charm. his great wealth was a certain element of security. society--civilized society, at least--is never very ready to believe anything to the detriment of those who are both rich and fascinating. it feels instinctively that manners are of more importance than morals, and, in its opinion, the highest respectability is of much less value than the possession of a good _chef_. and, after all, it is a very poor consolation to be told that the man who has given one a bad dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in his private life. even the cardinal virtues cannot atone for half-cold _entrees_, as lord henry remarked once, in a discussion on the subject, and there is possibly a good deal to be said for his view. for the canons of good society are, or should be, the same as the canons of art. form is absolutely essential to it. it should have the dignity of a ceremony, as well as its unreality, and should combine the insincere character of a romantic play with the wit and beauty that make such plays delightful to us. is insincerity such a terrible thing? i think not. it is merely a method by which we can multiply our personalities. such, at any rate, was dorian gray's opinion. he used to wonder at the shallow psychology of those who conceive the ego in man as a thing simple, permanent, reliable, and of one essence. to him, man was a being with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform creature that bore within itself strange legacies of thought and passion, and whose very flesh was tainted with the monstrous maladies of the dead. he loved to stroll through the gaunt cold picture-gallery of his country house and look at the various portraits of those whose blood flowed in his veins. here was philip herbert, described by francis osborne, in his memoires on the reigns of queen elizabeth and king james, as one who was "caressed by the court for his handsome face, which kept him not long company." was it young herbert's life that he sometimes led? had some strange poisonous germ crept from body to body till it had reached his own? was it some dim sense of that ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause, give utterance, in basil hallward's studio, to the mad prayer that had so changed his life? here, in gold-embroidered red doublet, jewelled surcoat, and gilt-edged ruff and wristbands, stood sir anthony sherard, with his silver-and-black armour piled at his feet. what had this man's legacy been? had the lover of giovanna of naples bequeathed him some inheritance of sin and shame? were his own actions merely the dreams that the dead man had not dared to realize? here, from the fading canvas, smiled lady elizabeth devereux, in her gauze hood, pearl stomacher, and pink slashed sleeves. a flower was in her right hand, and her left clasped an enamelled collar of white and damask roses. on a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple. there were large green rosettes upon her little pointed shoes. he knew her life, and the strange stories that were told about her lovers. had he something of her temperament in him? these oval, heavy-lidded eyes seemed to look curiously at him. what of george willoughby, with his powdered hair and fantastic patches? how evil he looked! the face was saturnine and swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain. delicate lace ruffles fell over the lean yellow hands that were so overladen with rings. he had been a macaroni of the eighteenth century, and the friend, in his youth, of lord ferrars. what of the second lord beckenham, the companion of the prince regent in his wildest days, and one of the witnesses at the secret marriage with mrs. fitzherbert? how proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose! what passions had he bequeathed? the world had looked upon him as infamous. he had led the orgies at carlton house. the star of the garter glittered upon his breast. beside him hung the portrait of his wife, a pallid, thin-lipped woman in black. her blood, also, stirred within him. how curious it all seemed! and his mother with her lady hamilton face and her moist, wine-dashed lips--he knew what he had got from her. he had got from her his beauty, and his passion for the beauty of others. she laughed at him in her loose bacchante dress. there were vine leaves in her hair. the purple spilled from the cup she was holding. the carnations of the painting had withered, but the eyes were still wonderful in their depth and brilliancy of colour. they seemed to follow him wherever he went. yet one had ancestors in literature as well as in one's own race, nearer perhaps in type and temperament, many of them, and certainly with an influence of which one was more absolutely conscious. there were times when it appeared to dorian gray that the whole of history was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it had been in his brain and in his passions. he felt that he had known them all, those strange terrible figures that had passed across the stage of the world and made sin so marvellous and evil so full of subtlety. it seemed to him that in some mysterious way their lives had been his own. the hero of the wonderful novel that had so influenced his life had himself known this curious fancy. in the seventh chapter he tells how, crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as tiberius, in a garden at capri, reading the shameful books of elephantis, while dwarfs and peacocks strutted round him and the flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as caligula, had caroused with the green-shirted jockeys in their stables and supped in an ivory manger with a jewel-frontleted horse; and, as domitian, had wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his days, and sick with that ennui, that terrible _taedium vitae_, that comes on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear emerald at the red shambles of the circus and then, in a litter of pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the street of pomegranates to a house of gold and heard men cry on nero caesar as he passed by; and, as elagabalus, had painted his face with colours, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the moon from carthage and given her in mystic marriage to the sun. over and over again dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made monstrous or mad: filippo, duke of milan, who slew his wife and painted her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the dead thing he fondled; pietro barbi, the venetian, known as paul the second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of formosus, and whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the price of a terrible sin; gian maria visconti, who used hounds to chase living men and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot who had loved him; the borgia on his white horse, with fratricide riding beside him and his mantle stained with the blood of perotto; pietro riario, the young cardinal archbishop of florence, child and minion of sixtus iv, whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery, and who received leonora of aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might serve at the feast as ganymede or hylas; ezzelin, whose melancholy could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion for red blood, as other men have for red wine--the son of the fiend, as was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling with him for his own soul; giambattista cibo, who in mockery took the name of innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads was infused by a jewish doctor; sigismondo malatesta, the lover of isotta and the lord of rimini, whose effigy was burned at rome as the enemy of god and man, who strangled polyssena with a napkin, and gave poison to ginevra d'este in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a shameful passion built a pagan church for christian worship; charles vi, who had so wildly adored his brother's wife that a leper had warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who, when his brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by saracen cards painted with the images of love and death and madness; and, in his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthuslike curls, grifonetto baglioni, who slew astorre with his bride, and simonetto with his page, and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow piazza of perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep, and atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him. there was a horrible fascination in them all. he saw them at night, and they troubled his imagination in the day. the renaissance knew of strange manners of poisoning--poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch, by an embroidered glove and a jewelled fan, by a gilded pomander and by an amber chain. dorian gray had been poisoned by a book. there were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful. chapter <UNK> it was on the ninth of november, the eve of his own thirty-eighth birthday, as he often remembered afterwards. he was walking home about eleven o'clock from lord henry's, where he had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold and foggy. at the corner of grosvenor square and south audley street, a man passed him in the mist, walking very fast and with the collar of his grey ulster turned up. he had a bag in his hand. dorian recognized him. it was basil hallward. a strange sense of fear, for which he could not account, came over him. he made no sign of recognition and went on quickly in the direction of his own house. but hallward had seen him. dorian heard him first stopping on the pavement and then hurrying after him. in a few moments, his hand was on his arm. "dorian! what an extraordinary piece of luck! i have been waiting for you in your library ever since nine o'clock. finally i took pity on your tired servant and told him to go to bed, as he let me out. i am off to paris by the midnight train, and i particularly wanted to see you before i left. i thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as you passed me. but i wasn't quite sure. didn't you recognize me?" "in this fog, my dear basil? why, i can't even recognize grosvenor square. i believe my house is somewhere about here, but i don't feel at all certain about it. i am sorry you are going away, as i have not seen you for ages. but i suppose you will be back soon?" "no: i am going to be out of england for six months. i intend to take a studio in paris and shut myself up till i have finished a great picture i have in my head. however, it wasn't about myself i wanted to talk. here we are at your door. let me come in for a moment. i have something to say to you." "i shall be charmed. but won't you miss your train?" said dorian gray languidly as he passed up the steps and opened the door with his latch-key. the lamplight struggled out through the fog, and hallward looked at his watch. "i have heaps of time," he answered. "the train doesn't go till twelve-fifteen, and it is only just eleven. in fact, i was on my way to the club to look for you, when i met you. you see, i shan't have any delay about luggage, as i have sent on my heavy things. all i have with me is in this bag, and i can easily get to victoria in twenty minutes." dorian looked at him and smiled. "what a way for a fashionable painter to travel! a gladstone bag and an ulster! come in, or the fog will get into the house. and mind you don't talk about anything serious. nothing is serious nowadays. at least nothing should be." hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed dorian into the library. there was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth. the lamps were lit, and an open dutch silver spirit-case stood, with some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little marqueterie table. "you see your servant made me quite at home, dorian. he gave me everything i wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes. he is a most hospitable creature. i like him much better than the frenchman you used to have. what has become of the frenchman, by the bye?" dorian shrugged his shoulders. "i believe he married lady radley's maid, and has established her in paris as an english dressmaker. anglomania is very fashionable over there now, i hear. it seems silly of the french, doesn't it? but--do you know?--he was not at all a bad servant. i never liked him, but i had nothing to complain about. one often imagines things that are quite absurd. he was really very devoted to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away. have another brandy-and-soda? or would you like hock-and-seltzer? i always take hock-and-seltzer myself. there is sure to be some in the next room." "thanks, i won't have anything more," said the painter, taking his cap and coat off and throwing them on the bag that he had placed in the corner. "and now, my dear fellow, i want to speak to you seriously. don't frown like that. you make it so much more difficult for me." "what is it all about?" cried dorian in his petulant way, flinging himself down on the sofa. "i hope it is not about myself. i am tired of myself to-night. i should like to be somebody else." "it is about yourself," answered hallward in his grave deep voice, "and i must say it to you. i shall only keep you half an hour." dorian sighed and lit a cigarette. "half an hour!" he murmured. "it is not much to ask of you, dorian, and it is entirely for your own sake that i am speaking. i think it right that you should know that the most dreadful things are being said against you in london." "i don't wish to know anything about them. i love scandals about other people, but scandals about myself don't interest me. they have not got the charm of novelty." "they must interest you, dorian. every gentleman is interested in his good name. you don't want people to talk of you as something vile and degraded. of course, you have your position, and your wealth, and all that kind of thing. but position and wealth are not everything. mind you, i don't believe these rumours at all. at least, i can't believe them when i see you. sin is a thing that writes itself across a man's face. it cannot be concealed. people talk sometimes of secret vices. there are no such things. if a wretched man has a vice, it shows itself in the lines of his mouth, the droop of his eyelids, the moulding of his hands even. somebody--i won't mention his name, but you know him--came to me last year to have his portrait done. i had never seen him before, and had never heard anything about him at the time, though i have heard a good deal since. he offered an extravagant price. i refused him. there was something in the shape of his fingers that i hated. i know now that i was quite right in what i fancied about him. his life is dreadful. but you, dorian, with your pure, bright, innocent face, and your marvellous untroubled youth--i can't believe anything against you. and yet i see you very seldom, and you never come down to the studio now, and when i am away from you, and i hear all these hideous things that people are whispering about you, i don't know what to say. why is it, dorian, that a man like the duke of berwick leaves the room of a club when you enter it? why is it that so many gentlemen in london will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs? you used to be a friend of lord staveley. i met him at dinner last week. your name happened to come up in conversation, in connection with the miniatures you have lent to the exhibition at the dudley. staveley curled his lip and said that you might have the most artistic tastes, but that you were a man whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with. i reminded him that i was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant. he told me. he told me right out before everybody. it was horrible! why is your friendship so fatal to young men? there was that wretched boy in the guards who committed suicide. you were his great friend. there was sir henry ashton, who had to leave england with a tarnished name. you and he were inseparable. what about adrian singleton and his dreadful end? what about lord kent's only son and his career? i met his father yesterday in st. james's street. he seemed broken with shame and sorrow. what about the young duke of perth? what sort of life has he got now? what gentleman would associate with him?" "stop, basil. you are talking about things of which you know nothing," said dorian gray, biting his lip, and with a note of infinite contempt in his voice. "you ask me why berwick leaves a room when i enter it. it is because i know everything about his life, not because he knows anything about mine. with such blood as he has in his veins, how could his record be clean? you ask me about henry ashton and young perth. did i teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery? if kent's silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me? if adrian singleton writes his friend's name across a bill, am i his keeper? i know how people chatter in england. the middle classes air their moral prejudices over their gross dinner-tables, and whisper about what they call the profligacies of their betters in order to try and pretend that they are in smart society and on intimate terms with the people they slander. in this country, it is enough for a man to have distinction and brains for every common tongue to wag against him. and what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead themselves? my dear fellow, you forget that we are in the native land of the hypocrite." "dorian," cried hallward, "that is not the question. england is bad enough i know, and english society is all wrong. that is the reason why i want you to be fine. you have not been fine. one has a right to judge of a man by the effect he has over his friends. yours seem to lose all sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. you have filled them with a madness for pleasure. they have gone down into the depths. you led them there. yes: you led them there, and yet you can smile, as you are smiling now. and there is worse behind. i know you and harry are inseparable. surely for that reason, if for none other, you should not have made his sister's name a by-word." "take care, basil. you go too far." "i must speak, and you must listen. you shall listen. when you met lady gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her. is there a single decent woman in london now who would drive with her in the park? why, even her children are not allowed to live with her. then there are other stories--stories that you have been seen creeping at dawn out of dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in london. are they true? can they be true? when i first heard them, i laughed. i hear them now, and they make me shudder. what about your country-house and the life that is led there? dorian, you don't know what is said about you. i won't tell you that i don't want to preach to you. i remember harry saying once that every man who turned himself into an amateur curate for the moment always began by saying that, and then proceeded to break his word. i do want to preach to you. i want you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. i want you to have a clean name and a fair record. i want you to get rid of the dreadful people you associate with. don't shrug your shoulders like that. don't be so indifferent. you have a wonderful influence. let it be for good, not for evil. they say that you corrupt every one with whom you become intimate, and that it is quite sufficient for you to enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after. i don't know whether it is so or not. how should i know? but it is said of you. i am told things that it seems impossible to doubt. lord gloucester was one of my greatest friends at oxford. he showed me a letter that his wife had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at mentone. your name was implicated in the most terrible confession i ever read. i told him that it was absurd--that i knew you thoroughly and that you were incapable of anything of the kind. know you? i wonder do i know you? before i could answer that, i should have to see your soul." "to see my soul!" muttered dorian gray, starting up from the sofa and turning almost white from fear. "yes," answered hallward gravely, and with deep-toned sorrow in his voice, "to see your soul. but only god can do that." a bitter laugh of mockery broke from the lips of the younger man. "you shall see it yourself, to-night!" he cried, seizing a lamp from the table. "come: it is your own handiwork. why shouldn't you look at it? you can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose. nobody would believe you. if they did believe you, they would like me all the better for it. i know the age better than you do, though you will prate about it so tediously. come, i tell you. you have chattered enough about corruption. now you shall look on it face to face." there was the madness of pride in every word he uttered. he stamped his foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner. he felt a terrible joy at the thought that some one else was to share his secret, and that the man who had painted the portrait that was the origin of all his shame was to be burdened for the rest of his life with the hideous memory of what he had done. "yes," he continued, coming closer to him and looking steadfastly into his stern eyes, "i shall show you my soul. you shall see the thing that you fancy only god can see." hallward started back. "this is blasphemy, dorian!" he cried. "you must not say things like that. they are horrible, and they don't mean anything." "you think so?" he laughed again. "i know so. as for what i said to you to-night, i said it for your good. you know i have been always a stanch friend to you." "don't touch me. finish what you have to say." a twisted flash of pain shot across the painter's face. he paused for a moment, and a wild feeling of pity came over him. after all, what right had he to pry into the life of dorian gray? if he had done a tithe of what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered! then he straightened himself up, and walked over to the fire-place, and stood there, looking at the burning logs with their frostlike ashes and their throbbing cores of flame. "i am waiting, basil," said the young man in a hard clear voice. he turned round. "what i have to say is this," he cried. "you must give me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you. if you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, i shall believe you. deny them, dorian, deny them! can't you see what i am going through? my god! don't tell me that you are bad, and corrupt, and shameful." dorian gray smiled. there was a curl of contempt in his lips. "come upstairs, basil," he said quietly. "i keep a diary of my life from day to day, and it never leaves the room in which it is written. i shall show it to you if you come with me." "i shall come with you, dorian, if you wish it. i see i have missed my train. that makes no matter. i can go to-morrow. but don't ask me to read anything to-night. all i want is a plain answer to my question." "that shall be given to you upstairs. i could not give it here. you will not have to read long." chapter <UNK> he passed out of the room and began the ascent, basil hallward following close behind. they walked softly, as men do instinctively at night. the lamp cast fantastic shadows on the wall and staircase. a rising wind made some of the windows rattle. when they reached the top landing, dorian set the lamp down on the floor, and taking out the key, turned it in the lock. "you insist on knowing, basil?" he asked in a low voice. "yes." "i am delighted," he answered, smiling. then he added, somewhat harshly, "you are the one man in the world who is entitled to know everything about me. you have had more to do with my life than you think"; and, taking up the lamp, he opened the door and went in. a cold current of air passed them, and the light shot up for a moment in a flame of murky orange. he shuddered. "shut the door behind you," he whispered, as he placed the lamp on the table. hallward glanced round him with a puzzled expression. the room looked as if it had not been lived in for years. a faded flemish tapestry, a curtained picture, an old italian _cassone_, and an almost empty book-case--that was all that it seemed to contain, besides a chair and a table. as dorian gray was lighting a half-burned candle that was standing on the mantelshelf, he saw that the whole place was covered with dust and that the carpet was in holes. a mouse ran scuffling behind the wainscoting. there was a damp odour of mildew. "so you think that it is only god who sees the soul, basil? draw that curtain back, and you will see mine." the voice that spoke was cold and cruel. "you are mad, dorian, or playing a part," muttered hallward, frowning. "you won't? then i must do it myself," said the young man, and he tore the curtain from its rod and flung it on the ground. an exclamation of horror broke from the painter's lips as he saw in the dim light the hideous face on the canvas grinning at him. there was something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing. good heavens! it was dorian gray's own face that he was looking at! the horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely spoiled that marvellous beauty. there was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet on the sensual mouth. the sodden eyes had kept something of the loveliness of their blue, the noble curves had not yet completely passed away from chiselled nostrils and from plastic throat. yes, it was dorian himself. but who had done it? he seemed to recognize his own brushwork, and the frame was his own design. the idea was monstrous, yet he felt afraid. he seized the lighted candle, and held it to the picture. in the left-hand corner was his own name, traced in long letters of bright vermilion. it was some foul parody, some infamous ignoble satire. he had never done that. still, it was his own picture. he knew it, and he felt as if his blood had changed in a moment from fire to sluggish ice. his own picture! what did it mean? why had it altered? he turned and looked at dorian gray with the eyes of a sick man. his mouth twitched, and his parched tongue seemed unable to articulate. he passed his hand across his forehead. it was dank with clammy sweat. the young man was leaning against the mantelshelf, watching him with that strange expression that one sees on the faces of those who are absorbed in a play when some great artist is acting. there was neither real sorrow in it nor real joy. there was simply the passion of the spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his eyes. he had taken the flower out of his coat, and was smelling it, or pretending to do so. "what does this mean?" cried hallward, at last. his own voice sounded shrill and curious in his ears. "years ago, when i was a boy," said dorian gray, crushing the flower in his hand, "you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good looks. one day you introduced me to a friend of yours, who explained to me the wonder of youth, and you finished a portrait of me that revealed to me the wonder of beauty. in a mad moment that, even now, i don't know whether i regret or not, i made a wish, perhaps you would call it a prayer...." "i remember it! oh, how well i remember it! no! the thing is impossible. the room is damp. mildew has got into the canvas. the paints i used had some wretched mineral poison in them. i tell you the thing is impossible." "ah, what is impossible?" murmured the young man, going over to the window and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained glass. "you told me you had destroyed it." "i was wrong. it has destroyed me." "i don't believe it is my picture." "can't you see your ideal in it?" said dorian bitterly. "my ideal, as you call it..." "as you called it." "there was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. you were to me such an ideal as i shall never meet again. this is the face of a satyr." "it is the face of my soul." "christ! what a thing i must have worshipped! it has the eyes of a devil." "each of us has heaven and hell in him, basil," cried dorian with a wild gesture of despair. hallward turned again to the portrait and gazed at it. "my god! if it is true," he exclaimed, "and this is what you have done with your life, why, you must be worse even than those who talk against you fancy you to be!" he held the light up again to the canvas and examined it. the surface seemed to be quite undisturbed and as he had left it. it was from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come. through some strange quickening of inner life the leprosies of sin were slowly eating the thing away. the rotting of a corpse in a watery grave was not so fearful. his hand shook, and the candle fell from its socket on the floor and lay there sputtering. he placed his foot on it and put it out. then he flung himself into the rickety chair that was standing by the table and buried his face in his hands. "good god, dorian, what a lesson! what an awful lesson!" there was no answer, but he could hear the young man sobbing at the window. "pray, dorian, pray," he murmured. "what is it that one was taught to say in one's boyhood? 'lead us not into temptation. forgive us our sins. wash away our iniquities.' let us say that together. the prayer of your pride has been answered. the prayer of your repentance will be answered also. i worshipped you too much. i am punished for it. you worshipped yourself too much. we are both punished." dorian gray turned slowly around and looked at him with tear-dimmed eyes. "it is too late, basil," he faltered. "it is never too late, dorian. let us kneel down and try if we cannot remember a prayer. isn't there a verse somewhere, 'though your sins be as scarlet, yet i will make them as white as snow'?" "those words mean nothing to me now." "hush! don't say that. you have done enough evil in your life. my god! don't you see that accursed thing leering at us?" dorian gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable feeling of hatred for basil hallward came over him, as though it had been suggested to him by the image on the canvas, whispered into his ear by those grinning lips. the mad passions of a hunted animal stirred within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more than in his whole life he had ever loathed anything. he glanced wildly around. something glimmered on the top of the painted chest that faced him. his eye fell on it. he knew what it was. it was a knife that he had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had forgotten to take away with him. he moved slowly towards it, passing hallward as he did so. as soon as he got behind him, he seized it and turned round. hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise. he rushed at him and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind the ear, crushing the man's head down on the table and stabbing again and again. there was a stifled groan and the horrible sound of some one choking with blood. three times the outstretched arms shot up convulsively, waving grotesque, stiff-fingered hands in the air. he stabbed him twice more, but the man did not move. something began to trickle on the floor. he waited for a moment, still pressing the head down. then he threw the knife on the table, and listened. he could hear nothing, but the drip, drip on the threadbare carpet. he opened the door and went out on the landing. the house was absolutely quiet. no one was about. for a few seconds he stood bending over the balustrade and peering down into the black seething well of darkness. then he took out the key and returned to the room, locking himself in as he did so. the thing was still seated in the chair, straining over the table with bowed head, and humped back, and long fantastic arms. had it not been for the red jagged tear in the neck and the clotted black pool that was slowly widening on the table, one would have said that the man was simply asleep. how quickly it had all been done! he felt strangely calm, and walking over to the window, opened it and stepped out on the balcony. the wind had blown the fog away, and the sky was like a monstrous peacock's tail, starred with myriads of golden eyes. he looked down and saw the policeman going his rounds and flashing the long beam of his lantern on the doors of the silent houses. the crimson spot of a prowling hansom gleamed at the corner and then vanished. a woman in a fluttering shawl was creeping slowly by the railings, staggering as she went. now and then she stopped and peered back. once, she began to sing in a hoarse voice. the policeman strolled over and said something to her. she stumbled away, laughing. a bitter blast swept across the square. the gas-lamps flickered and became blue, and the leafless trees shook their black iron branches to and fro. he shivered and went back, closing the window behind him. having reached the door, he turned the key and opened it. he did not even glance at the murdered man. he felt that the secret of the whole thing was not to realize the situation. the friend who had painted the fatal portrait to which all his misery had been due had gone out of his life. that was enough. then he remembered the lamp. it was a rather curious one of moorish workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of burnished steel, and studded with coarse turquoises. perhaps it might be missed by his servant, and questions would be asked. he hesitated for a moment, then he turned back and took it from the table. he could not help seeing the dead thing. how still it was! how horribly white the long hands looked! it was like a dreadful wax image. having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs. the woodwork creaked and seemed to cry out as if in pain. he stopped several times and waited. no: everything was still. it was merely the sound of his own footsteps. when he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner. they must be hidden away somewhere. he unlocked a secret press that was in the wainscoting, a press in which he kept his own curious disguises, and put them into it. he could easily burn them afterwards. then he pulled out his watch. it was twenty minutes to two. he sat down and began to think. every year--every month, almost--men were strangled in england for what he had done. there had been a madness of murder in the air. some red star had come too close to the earth.... and yet, what evidence was there against him? basil hallward had left the house at eleven. no one had seen him come in again. most of the servants were at selby royal. his valet had gone to bed.... paris! yes. it was to paris that basil had gone, and by the midnight train, as he had intended. with his curious reserved habits, it would be months before any suspicions would be roused. months! everything could be destroyed long before then. a sudden thought struck him. he put on his fur coat and hat and went out into the hall. there he paused, hearing the slow heavy tread of the policeman on the pavement outside and seeing the flash of the bull's-eye reflected in the window. he waited and held his breath. after a few moments he drew back the latch and slipped out, shutting the door very gently behind him. then he began ringing the bell. in about five minutes his valet appeared, half-dressed and looking very drowsy. "i am sorry to have had to wake you up, francis," he said, stepping in; "but i had forgotten my latch-key. what time is it?" "ten minutes past two, sir," answered the man, looking at the clock and blinking. "ten minutes past two? how horribly late! you must wake me at nine to-morrow. i have some work to do." "all right, sir." "did any one call this evening?" "mr. hallward, sir. he stayed here till eleven, and then he went away to catch his train." "oh! i am sorry i didn't see him. did he leave any message?" "no, sir, except that he would write to you from paris, if he did not find you at the club." "that will do, francis. don't forget to call me at nine to-morrow." "no, sir." the man shambled down the passage in his slippers. dorian gray threw his hat and coat upon the table and passed into the library. for a quarter of an hour he walked up and down the room, biting his lip and thinking. then he took down the blue book from one of the shelves and began to turn over the leaves. "alan campbell, <UNK> hertford street, mayfair." yes; that was the man he wanted. chapter <UNK> at nine o'clock the next morning his servant came in with a cup of chocolate on a tray and opened the shutters. dorian was sleeping quite peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath his cheek. he looked like a boy who had been tired out with play, or study. the man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke, and as he opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as though he had been lost in some delightful dream. yet he had not dreamed at all. his night had been untroubled by any images of pleasure or of pain. but youth smiles without any reason. it is one of its chiefest charms. he turned round, and leaning upon his elbow, began to sip his chocolate. the mellow november sun came streaming into the room. the sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air. it was almost like a morning in may. gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent, blood-stained feet into his brain and reconstructed themselves there with terrible distinctness. he winced at the memory of all that he had suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of loathing for basil hallward that had made him kill him as he sat in the chair came back to him, and he grew cold with passion. the dead man was still sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. how horrible that was! such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day. he felt that if he brooded on what he had gone through he would sicken or grow mad. there were sins whose fascination was more in the memory than in the doing of them, strange triumphs that gratified the pride more than the passions, and gave to the intellect a quickened sense of joy, greater than any joy they brought, or could ever bring, to the senses. but this was not one of them. it was a thing to be driven out of the mind, to be drugged with poppies, to be strangled lest it might strangle one itself. when the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his forehead, and then got up hastily and dressed himself with even more than his usual care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and scarf-pin and changing his rings more than once. he spent a long time also over breakfast, tasting the various dishes, talking to his valet about some new liveries that he was thinking of getting made for the servants at selby, and going through his correspondence. at some of the letters, he smiled. three of them bored him. one he read several times over and then tore up with a slight look of annoyance in his face. "that awful thing, a woman's memory!" as lord henry had once said. after he had drunk his cup of black coffee, he wiped his lips slowly with a napkin, motioned to his servant to wait, and going over to the table, sat down and wrote two letters. one he put in his pocket, the other he handed to the valet. "take this round to <UNK> hertford street, francis, and if mr. campbell is out of town, get his address." as soon as he was alone, he lit a cigarette and began sketching upon a piece of paper, drawing first flowers and bits of architecture, and then human faces. suddenly he remarked that every face that he drew seemed to have a fantastic likeness to basil hallward. he frowned, and getting up, went over to the book-case and took out a volume at hazard. he was determined that he would not think about what had happened until it became absolutely necessary that he should do so. when he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the title-page of the book. it was gautier's emaux et camees, charpentier's japanese-paper edition, with the jacquemart etching. the binding was of citron-green leather, with a design of gilt trellis-work and dotted pomegranates. it had been given to him by adrian singleton. as he turned over the pages, his eye fell on the poem about the hand of lacenaire, the cold yellow hand "_du supplice encore mal lavee_," with its downy red hairs and its "_doigts de faune_." he glanced at his own white taper fingers, shuddering slightly in spite of himself, and passed on, till he came to those lovely stanzas upon venice: sur une gamme chromatique, le sein de perles ruisselant, la venus de l'adriatique sort de l'eau son corps rose et blanc. les domes, sur l'azur des ondes suivant la phrase au pur contour, s'enflent comme des gorges rondes que souleve un soupir d'amour. l'esquif aborde et me depose, jetant son amarre au pilier, devant une facade rose, sur le marbre d'un escalier. how exquisite they were! as one read them, one seemed to be floating down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains. the mere lines looked to him like those straight lines of turquoise-blue that follow one as one pushes out to the lido. the sudden flashes of colour reminded him of the gleam of the opal-and-iris-throated birds that flutter round the tall honeycombed campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through the dim, dust-stained arcades. leaning back with half-closed eyes, he kept saying over and over to himself: "devant une facade rose, sur le marbre d'un escalier." the whole of venice was in those two lines. he remembered the autumn that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had stirred him to mad delightful follies. there was romance in every place. but venice, like oxford, had kept the background for romance, and, to the true romantic, background was everything, or almost everything. basil had been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over tintoret. poor basil! what a horrible way for a man to die! he sighed, and took up the volume again, and tried to forget. he read of the swallows that fly in and out of the little _cafe_ at smyrna where the hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each other; he read of the obelisk in the place de la concorde that weeps tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile and longs to be back by the hot, lotus-covered nile, where there are sphinxes, and rose-red ibises, and white vultures with gilded claws, and crocodiles with small beryl eyes that crawl over the green steaming mud; he began to brood over those verses which, drawing music from kiss-stained marble, tell of that curious statue that gautier compares to a contralto voice, the "_monstre charmant_" that couches in the porphyry-room of the louvre. but after a time the book fell from his hand. he grew nervous, and a horrible fit of terror came over him. what if alan campbell should be out of england? days would elapse before he could come back. perhaps he might refuse to come. what could he do then? every moment was of vital importance. they had been great friends once, five years before--almost inseparable, indeed. then the intimacy had come suddenly to an end. when they met in society now, it was only dorian gray who smiled: alan campbell never did. he was an extremely clever young man, though he had no real appreciation of the visible arts, and whatever little sense of the beauty of poetry he possessed he had gained entirely from dorian. his dominant intellectual passion was for science. at cambridge he had spent a great deal of his time working in the laboratory, and had taken a good class in the natural science tripos of his year. indeed, he was still devoted to the study of chemistry, and had a laboratory of his own in which he used to shut himself up all day long, greatly to the annoyance of his mother, who had set her heart on his standing for parliament and had a vague idea that a chemist was a person who made up prescriptions. he was an excellent musician, however, as well, and played both the violin and the piano better than most amateurs. in fact, it was music that had first brought him and dorian gray together--music and that indefinable attraction that dorian seemed to be able to exercise whenever he wished--and, indeed, exercised often without being conscious of it. they had met at lady berkshire's the night that rubinstein played there, and after that used to be always seen together at the opera and wherever good music was going on. for eighteen months their intimacy lasted. campbell was always either at selby royal or in grosvenor square. to him, as to many others, dorian gray was the type of everything that is wonderful and fascinating in life. whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever knew. but suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met and that campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at which dorian gray was present. he had changed, too--was strangely melancholy at times, appeared almost to dislike hearing music, and would never himself play, giving as his excuse, when he was called upon, that he was so absorbed in science that he had no time left in which to practise. and this was certainly true. every day he seemed to become more interested in biology, and his name appeared once or twice in some of the scientific reviews in connection with certain curious experiments. this was the man dorian gray was waiting for. every second he kept glancing at the clock. as the minutes went by he became horribly agitated. at last he got up and began to pace up and down the room, looking like a beautiful caged thing. he took long stealthy strides. his hands were curiously cold. the suspense became unbearable. time seemed to him to be crawling with feet of lead, while he by monstrous winds was being swept towards the jagged edge of some black cleft of precipice. he knew what was waiting for him there; saw it, indeed, and, shuddering, crushed with dank hands his burning lids as though he would have robbed the very brain of sight and driven the eyeballs back into their cave. it was useless. the brain had its own food on which it battened, and the imagination, made grotesque by terror, twisted and distorted as a living thing by pain, danced like some foul puppet on a stand and grinned through moving masks. then, suddenly, time stopped for him. yes: that blind, slow-breathing thing crawled no more, and horrible thoughts, time being dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its grave, and showed it to him. he stared at it. its very horror made him stone. at last the door opened and his servant entered. he turned glazed eyes upon him. "mr. campbell, sir," said the man. a sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the colour came back to his cheeks. "ask him to come in at once, francis." he felt that he was himself again. his mood of cowardice had passed away. the man bowed and retired. in a few moments, alan campbell walked in, looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his coal-black hair and dark eyebrows. "alan! this is kind of you. i thank you for coming." "i had intended never to enter your house again, gray. but you said it was a matter of life and death." his voice was hard and cold. he spoke with slow deliberation. there was a look of contempt in the steady searching gaze that he turned on dorian. he kept his hands in the pockets of his astrakhan coat, and seemed not to have noticed the gesture with which he had been greeted. "yes: it is a matter of life and death, alan, and to more than one person. sit down." campbell took a chair by the table, and dorian sat opposite to him. the two men's eyes met. in dorian's there was infinite pity. he knew that what he was going to do was dreadful. after a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him he had sent for, "alan, in a locked room at the top of this house, a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table. he has been dead ten hours now. don't stir, and don't look at me like that. who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you. what you have to do is this--" "stop, gray. i don't want to know anything further. whether what you have told me is true or not true doesn't concern me. i entirely decline to be mixed up in your life. keep your horrible secrets to yourself. they don't interest me any more." "alan, they will have to interest you. this one will have to interest you. i am awfully sorry for you, alan. but i can't help myself. you are the one man who is able to save me. i am forced to bring you into the matter. i have no option. alan, you are scientific. you know about chemistry and things of that kind. you have made experiments. what you have got to do is to destroy the thing that is upstairs--to destroy it so that not a vestige of it will be left. nobody saw this person come into the house. indeed, at the present moment he is supposed to be in paris. he will not be missed for months. when he is missed, there must be no trace of him found here. you, alan, you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that i may scatter in the air." "you are mad, dorian." "ah! i was waiting for you to call me dorian." "you are mad, i tell you--mad to imagine that i would raise a finger to help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. i will have nothing to do with this matter, whatever it is. do you think i am going to peril my reputation for you? what is it to me what devil's work you are up to?" "it was suicide, alan." "i am glad of that. but who drove him to it? you, i should fancy." "do you still refuse to do this for me?" "of course i refuse. i will have absolutely nothing to do with it. i don't care what shame comes on you. you deserve it all. i should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. how dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror? i should have thought you knew more about people's characters. your friend lord henry wotton can't have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he has taught you. nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. you have come to the wrong man. go to some of your friends. don't come to me." "alan, it was murder. i killed him. you don't know what he had made me suffer. whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the marring of it than poor harry has had. he may not have intended it, the result was the same." "murder! good god, dorian, is that what you have come to? i shall not inform upon you. it is not my business. besides, without my stirring in the matter, you are certain to be arrested. nobody ever commits a crime without doing something stupid. but i will have nothing to do with it." "you must have something to do with it. wait, wait a moment; listen to me. only listen, alan. all i ask of you is to perform a certain scientific experiment. you go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the horrors that you do there don't affect you. if in some hideous dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow through, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject. you would not turn a hair. you would not believe that you were doing anything wrong. on the contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting the human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the world, or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind. what i want you to do is merely what you have often done before. indeed, to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are accustomed to work at. and, remember, it is the only piece of evidence against me. if it is discovered, i am lost; and it is sure to be discovered unless you help me." "i have no desire to help you. you forget that. i am simply indifferent to the whole thing. it has nothing to do with me." "alan, i entreat you. think of the position i am in. just before you came i almost fainted with terror. you may know terror yourself some day. no! don't think of that. look at the matter purely from the scientific point of view. you don't inquire where the dead things on which you experiment come from. don't inquire now. i have told you too much as it is. but i beg of you to do this. we were friends once, alan." "don't speak about those days, dorian--they are dead." "the dead linger sometimes. the man upstairs will not go away. he is sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. alan! alan! if you don't come to my assistance, i am ruined. why, they will hang me, alan! don't you understand? they will hang me for what i have done." "there is no good in prolonging this scene. i absolutely refuse to do anything in the matter. it is insane of you to ask me." "you refuse?" "yes." "i entreat you, alan." "it is useless." the same look of pity came into dorian gray's eyes. then he stretched out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. he read it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the table. having done this, he got up and went over to the window. campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and opened it. as he read it, his face became ghastly pale and he fell back in his chair. a horrible sense of sickness came over him. he felt as if his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow. after two or three minutes of terrible silence, dorian turned round and came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder. "i am so sorry for you, alan," he murmured, "but you leave me no alternative. i have a letter written already. here it is. you see the address. if you don't help me, i must send it. if you don't help me, i will send it. you know what the result will be. but you are going to help me. it is impossible for you to refuse now. i tried to spare you. you will do me the justice to admit that. you were stern, harsh, offensive. you treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me--no living man, at any rate. i bore it all. now it is for me to dictate terms." campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through him. "yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, alan. you know what they are. the thing is quite simple. come, don't work yourself into this fever. the thing has to be done. face it, and do it." a groan broke from campbell's lips and he shivered all over. the ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece seemed to him to be dividing time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too terrible to be borne. he felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already come upon him. the hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead. it was intolerable. it seemed to crush him. "come, alan, you must decide at once." "i cannot do it," he said, mechanically, as though words could alter things. "you must. you have no choice. don't delay." he hesitated a moment. "is there a fire in the room upstairs?" "yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos." "i shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory." "no, alan, you must not leave the house. write out on a sheet of notepaper what you want and my servant will take a cab and bring the things back to you." campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an envelope to his assistant. dorian took the note up and read it carefully. then he rang the bell and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as soon as possible and to bring the things with him. as the hall door shut, campbell started nervously, and having got up from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece. he was shivering with a kind of ague. for nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke. a fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was like the beat of a hammer. as the chime struck one, campbell turned round, and looking at dorian gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears. there was something in the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage him. "you are infamous, absolutely infamous!" he muttered. "hush, alan. you have saved my life," said dorian. "your life? good heavens! what a life that is! you have gone from corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime. in doing what i am going to do--what you force me to do--it is not of your life that i am thinking." "ah, alan," murmured dorian with a sigh, "i wish you had a thousandth part of the pity for me that i have for you." he turned away as he spoke and stood looking out at the garden. campbell made no answer. after about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant entered, carrying a large mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long coil of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously shaped iron clamps. "shall i leave the things here, sir?" he asked campbell. "yes," said dorian. "and i am afraid, francis, that i have another errand for you. what is the name of the man at richmond who supplies selby with orchids?" "harden, sir." "yes--harden. you must go down to richmond at once, see harden personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as i ordered, and to have as few white ones as possible. in fact, i don't want any white ones. it is a lovely day, francis, and richmond is a very pretty place--otherwise i wouldn't bother you about it." "no trouble, sir. at what time shall i be back?" dorian looked at campbell. "how long will your experiment take, alan?" he said in a calm indifferent voice. the presence of a third person in the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage. campbell frowned and bit his lip. "it will take about five hours," he answered. "it will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven, francis. or stay: just leave my things out for dressing. you can have the evening to yourself. i am not dining at home, so i shall not want you." "thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room. "now, alan, there is not a moment to be lost. how heavy this chest is! i'll take it for you. you bring the other things." he spoke rapidly and in an authoritative manner. campbell felt dominated by him. they left the room together. when they reached the top landing, dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock. then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his eyes. he shuddered. "i don't think i can go in, alan," he murmured. "it is nothing to me. i don't require you," said campbell coldly. dorian half opened the door. as he did so, he saw the face of his portrait leering in the sunlight. on the floor in front of it the torn curtain was lying. he remembered that the night before he had forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas, and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder. what was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? how horrible it was!--more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment, than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it. he heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with half-closed eyes and averted head, walked quickly in, determined that he would not look even once upon the dead man. then, stooping down and taking up the gold-and-purple hanging, he flung it right over the picture. there he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. he heard campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other things that he had required for his dreadful work. he began to wonder if he and basil hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had thought of each other. "leave me now," said a stern voice behind him. he turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had been thrust back into the chair and that campbell was gazing into a glistening yellow face. as he was going downstairs, he heard the key being turned in the lock. it was long after seven when campbell came back into the library. he was pale, but absolutely calm. "i have done what you asked me to do," he muttered. "and now, good-bye. let us never see each other again." "you have saved me from ruin, alan. i cannot forget that," said dorian simply. as soon as campbell had left, he went upstairs. there was a horrible smell of nitric acid in the room. but the thing that had been sitting at the table was gone. chapter <UNK> that evening, at eight-thirty, exquisitely dressed and wearing a large button-hole of parma violets, dorian gray was ushered into lady narborough's drawing-room by bowing servants. his forehead was throbbing with maddened nerves, and he felt wildly excited, but his manner as he bent over his hostess's hand was as easy and graceful as ever. perhaps one never seems so much at one's ease as when one has to play a part. certainly no one looking at dorian gray that night could have believed that he had passed through a tragedy as horrible as any tragedy of our age. those finely shaped fingers could never have clutched a knife for sin, nor those smiling lips have cried out on god and goodness. he himself could not help wondering at the calm of his demeanour, and for a moment felt keenly the terrible pleasure of a double life. it was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by lady narborough, who was a very clever woman with what lord henry used to describe as the remains of really remarkable ugliness. she had proved an excellent wife to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted herself now to the pleasures of french fiction, french cookery, and french _esprit_ when she could get it. dorian was one of her especial favourites, and she always told him that she was extremely glad she had not met him in early life. "i know, my dear, i should have fallen madly in love with you," she used to say, "and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your sake. it is most fortunate that you were not thought of at the time. as it was, our bonnets were so unbecoming, and the mills were so occupied in trying to raise the wind, that i never had even a flirtation with anybody. however, that was all narborough's fault. he was dreadfully short-sighted, and there is no pleasure in taking in a husband who never sees anything." her guests this evening were rather tedious. the fact was, as she explained to dorian, behind a very shabby fan, one of her married daughters had come up quite suddenly to stay with her, and, to make matters worse, had actually brought her husband with her. "i think it is most unkind of her, my dear," she whispered. "of course i go and stay with them every summer after i come from homburg, but then an old woman like me must have fresh air sometimes, and besides, i really wake them up. you don't know what an existence they lead down there. it is pure unadulterated country life. they get up early, because they have so much to do, and go to bed early, because they have so little to think about. there has not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since the time of queen elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep after dinner. you shan't sit next either of them. you shall sit by me and amuse me." dorian murmured a graceful compliment and looked round the room. yes: it was certainly a tedious party. two of the people he had never seen before, and the others consisted of ernest harrowden, one of those middle-aged mediocrities so common in london clubs who have no enemies, but are thoroughly disliked by their friends; lady ruxton, an overdressed woman of forty-seven, with a hooked nose, who was always trying to get herself compromised, but was so peculiarly plain that to her great disappointment no one would ever believe anything against her; mrs. erlynne, a pushing nobody, with a delightful lisp and venetian-red hair; lady alice chapman, his hostess's daughter, a dowdy dull girl, with one of those characteristic british faces that, once seen, are never remembered; and her husband, a red-cheeked, white-whiskered creature who, like so many of his class, was under the impression that inordinate joviality can atone for an entire lack of ideas. he was rather sorry he had come, till lady narborough, looking at the great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed: "how horrid of henry wotton to be so late! i sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised faithfully not to disappoint me." it was some consolation that harry was to be there, and when the door opened and he heard his slow musical voice lending charm to some insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored. but at dinner he could not eat anything. plate after plate went away untasted. lady narborough kept scolding him for what she called "an insult to poor adolphe, who invented the _menu_ specially for you," and now and then lord henry looked across at him, wondering at his silence and abstracted manner. from time to time the butler filled his glass with champagne. he drank eagerly, and his thirst seemed to increase. "dorian," said lord henry at last, as the _chaud-froid_ was being handed round, "what is the matter with you to-night? you are quite out of sorts." "i believe he is in love," cried lady narborough, "and that he is afraid to tell me for fear i should be jealous. he is quite right. i certainly should." "dear lady narborough," murmured dorian, smiling, "i have not been in love for a whole week--not, in fact, since madame de ferrol left town." "how you men can fall in love with that woman!" exclaimed the old lady. "i really cannot understand it." "it is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl, lady narborough," said lord henry. "she is the one link between us and your short frocks." "she does not remember my short frocks at all, lord henry. but i remember her very well at vienna thirty years ago, and how _decolletee_ she was then." "she is still _decolletee_," he answered, taking an olive in his long fingers; "and when she is in a very smart gown she looks like an _edition de luxe_ of a bad french novel. she is really wonderful, and full of surprises. her capacity for family affection is extraordinary. when her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief." "how can you, harry!" cried dorian. "it is a most romantic explanation," laughed the hostess. "but her third husband, lord henry! you don't mean to say ferrol is the fourth?" "certainly, lady narborough." "i don't believe a word of it." "well, ask mr. gray. he is one of her most intimate friends." "is it true, mr. gray?" "she assures me so, lady narborough," said dorian. "i asked her whether, like marguerite de navarre, she had their hearts embalmed and hung at her girdle. she told me she didn't, because none of them had had any hearts at all." "four husbands! upon my word that is _trop de zele_." "_trop d'audace_, i tell her," said dorian. "oh! she is audacious enough for anything, my dear. and what is ferrol like? i don't know him." "the husbands of very beautiful women belong to the criminal classes," said lord henry, sipping his wine. lady narborough hit him with her fan. "lord henry, i am not at all surprised that the world says that you are extremely wicked." "but what world says that?" asked lord henry, elevating his eyebrows. "it can only be the next world. this world and i are on excellent terms." "everybody i know says you are very wicked," cried the old lady, shaking her head. lord henry looked serious for some moments. "it is perfectly monstrous," he said, at last, "the way people go about nowadays saying things against one behind one's back that are absolutely and entirely true." "isn't he incorrigible?" cried dorian, leaning forward in his chair. "i hope so," said his hostess, laughing. "but really, if you all worship madame de ferrol in this ridiculous way, i shall have to marry again so as to be in the fashion." "you will never marry again, lady narborough," broke in lord henry. "you were far too happy. when a woman marries again, it is because she detested her first husband. when a man marries again, it is because he adored his first wife. women try their luck; men risk theirs." "narborough wasn't perfect," cried the old lady. "if he had been, you would not have loved him, my dear lady," was the rejoinder. "women love us for our defects. if we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our intellects. you will never ask me to dinner again after saying this, i am afraid, lady narborough, but it is quite true." "of course it is true, lord henry. if we women did not love you for your defects, where would you all be? not one of you would ever be married. you would be a set of unfortunate bachelors. not, however, that that would alter you much. nowadays all the married men live like bachelors, and all the bachelors like married men." "_fin de siecle_," murmured lord henry. "_fin du globe_," answered his hostess. "i wish it were _fin du globe_," said dorian with a sigh. "life is a great disappointment." "ah, my dear," cried lady narborough, putting on her gloves, "don't tell me that you have exhausted life. when a man says that one knows that life has exhausted him. lord henry is very wicked, and i sometimes wish that i had been; but you are made to be good--you look so good. i must find you a nice wife. lord henry, don't you think that mr. gray should get married?" "i am always telling him so, lady narborough," said lord henry with a bow. "well, we must look out for a suitable match for him. i shall go through debrett carefully to-night and draw out a list of all the eligible young ladies." "with their ages, lady narborough?" asked dorian. "of course, with their ages, slightly edited. but nothing must be done in a hurry. i want it to be what _the morning post_ calls a suitable alliance, and i want you both to be happy." "what nonsense people talk about happy marriages!" exclaimed lord henry. "a man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love her." "ah! what a cynic you are!" cried the old lady, pushing back her chair and nodding to lady ruxton. "you must come and dine with me soon again. you are really an admirable tonic, much better than what sir andrew prescribes for me. you must tell me what people you would like to meet, though. i want it to be a delightful gathering." "i like men who have a future and women who have a past," he answered. "or do you think that would make it a petticoat party?" "i fear so," she said, laughing, as she stood up. "a thousand pardons, my dear lady ruxton," she added, "i didn't see you hadn't finished your cigarette." "never mind, lady narborough. i smoke a great deal too much. i am going to limit myself, for the future." "pray don't, lady ruxton," said lord henry. "moderation is a fatal thing. enough is as bad as a meal. more than enough is as good as a feast." lady ruxton glanced at him curiously. "you must come and explain that to me some afternoon, lord henry. it sounds a fascinating theory," she murmured, as she swept out of the room. "now, mind you don't stay too long over your politics and scandal," cried lady narborough from the door. "if you do, we are sure to squabble upstairs." the men laughed, and mr. chapman got up solemnly from the foot of the table and came up to the top. dorian gray changed his seat and went and sat by lord henry. mr. chapman began to talk in a loud voice about the situation in the house of commons. he guffawed at his adversaries. the word _doctrinaire_--word full of terror to the british mind--reappeared from time to time between his explosions. an alliterative prefix served as an ornament of oratory. he hoisted the union jack on the pinnacles of thought. the inherited stupidity of the race--sound english common sense he jovially termed it--was shown to be the proper bulwark for society. a smile curved lord henry's lips, and he turned round and looked at dorian. "are you better, my dear fellow?" he asked. "you seemed rather out of sorts at dinner." "i am quite well, harry. i am tired. that is all." "you were charming last night. the little duchess is quite devoted to you. she tells me she is going down to selby." "she has promised to come on the twentieth." "is monmouth to be there, too?" "oh, yes, harry." "he bores me dreadfully, almost as much as he bores her. she is very clever, too clever for a woman. she lacks the indefinable charm of weakness. it is the feet of clay that make the gold of the image precious. her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay. white porcelain feet, if you like. they have been through the fire, and what fire does not destroy, it hardens. she has had experiences." "how long has she been married?" asked dorian. "an eternity, she tells me. i believe, according to the peerage, it is ten years, but ten years with monmouth must have been like eternity, with time thrown in. who else is coming?" "oh, the willoughbys, lord rugby and his wife, our hostess, geoffrey clouston, the usual set. i have asked lord grotrian." "i like him," said lord henry. "a great many people don't, but i find him charming. he atones for being occasionally somewhat overdressed by being always absolutely over-educated. he is a very modern type." "i don't know if he will be able to come, harry. he may have to go to monte carlo with his father." "ah! what a nuisance people's people are! try and make him come. by the way, dorian, you ran off very early last night. you left before eleven. what did you do afterwards? did you go straight home?" dorian glanced at him hurriedly and frowned. "no, harry," he said at last, "i did not get home till nearly three." "did you go to the club?" "yes," he answered. then he bit his lip. "no, i don't mean that. i didn't go to the club. i walked about. i forget what i did.... how inquisitive you are, harry! you always want to know what one has been doing. i always want to forget what i have been doing. i came in at half-past two, if you wish to know the exact time. i had left my latch-key at home, and my servant had to let me in. if you want any corroborative evidence on the subject, you can ask him." lord henry shrugged his shoulders. "my dear fellow, as if i cared! let us go up to the drawing-room. no sherry, thank you, mr. chapman. something has happened to you, dorian. tell me what it is. you are not yourself to-night." "don't mind me, harry. i am irritable, and out of temper. i shall come round and see you to-morrow, or next day. make my excuses to lady narborough. i shan't go upstairs. i shall go home. i must go home." "all right, dorian. i dare say i shall see you to-morrow at tea-time. the duchess is coming." "i will try to be there, harry," he said, leaving the room. as he drove back to his own house, he was conscious that the sense of terror he thought he had strangled had come back to him. lord henry's casual questioning had made him lose his nerve for the moment, and he wanted his nerve still. things that were dangerous had to be destroyed. he winced. he hated the idea of even touching them. yet it had to be done. he realized that, and when he had locked the door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he had thrust basil hallward's coat and bag. a huge fire was blazing. he piled another log on it. the smell of the singeing clothes and burning leather was horrible. it took him three-quarters of an hour to consume everything. at the end he felt faint and sick, and having lit some algerian pastilles in a pierced copper brazier, he bathed his hands and forehead with a cool musk-scented vinegar. suddenly he started. his eyes grew strangely bright, and he gnawed nervously at his underlip. between two of the windows stood a large florentine cabinet, made out of ebony and inlaid with ivory and blue lapis. he watched it as though it were a thing that could fascinate and make afraid, as though it held something that he longed for and yet almost loathed. his breath quickened. a mad craving came over him. he lit a cigarette and then threw it away. his eyelids drooped till the long fringed lashes almost touched his cheek. but he still watched the cabinet. at last he got up from the sofa on which he had been lying, went over to it, and having unlocked it, touched some hidden spring. a triangular drawer passed slowly out. his fingers moved instinctively towards it, dipped in, and closed on something. it was a small chinese box of black and gold-dust lacquer, elaborately wrought, the sides patterned with curved waves, and the silken cords hung with round crystals and tasselled in plaited metal threads. he opened it. inside was a green paste, waxy in lustre, the odour curiously heavy and persistent. he hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile upon his face. then shivering, though the atmosphere of the room was terribly hot, he drew himself up and glanced at the clock. it was twenty minutes to twelve. he put the box back, shutting the cabinet doors as he did so, and went into his bedroom. as midnight was striking bronze blows upon the dusky air, dorian gray, dressed commonly, and with a muffler wrapped round his throat, crept quietly out of his house. in bond street he found a hansom with a good horse. he hailed it and in a low voice gave the driver an address. the man shook his head. "it is too far for me," he muttered. "here is a sovereign for you," said dorian. "you shall have another if you drive fast." "all right, sir," answered the man, "you will be there in an hour," and after his fare had got in he turned his horse round and drove rapidly towards the river. chapter <UNK> a cold rain began to fall, and the blurred street-lamps looked ghastly in the dripping mist. the public-houses were just closing, and dim men and women were clustering in broken groups round their doors. from some of the bars came the sound of horrible laughter. in others, drunkards brawled and screamed. lying back in the hansom, with his hat pulled over his forehead, dorian gray watched with listless eyes the sordid shame of the great city, and now and then he repeated to himself the words that lord henry had said to him on the first day they had met, "to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul." yes, that was the secret. he had often tried it, and would try it again now. there were opium dens where one could buy oblivion, dens of horror where the memory of old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new. the moon hung low in the sky like a yellow skull. from time to time a huge misshapen cloud stretched a long arm across and hid it. the gas-lamps grew fewer, and the streets more narrow and gloomy. once the man lost his way and had to drive back half a mile. a steam rose from the horse as it splashed up the puddles. the sidewindows of the hansom were clogged with a grey-flannel mist. "to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul!" how the words rang in his ears! his soul, certainly, was sick to death. was it true that the senses could cure it? innocent blood had been spilled. what could atone for that? ah! for that there was no atonement; but though forgiveness was impossible, forgetfulness was possible still, and he was determined to forget, to stamp the thing out, to crush it as one would crush the adder that had stung one. indeed, what right had basil to have spoken to him as he had done? who had made him a judge over others? he had said things that were dreadful, horrible, not to be endured. on and on plodded the hansom, going slower, it seemed to him, at each step. he thrust up the trap and called to the man to drive faster. the hideous hunger for opium began to gnaw at him. his throat burned and his delicate hands twitched nervously together. he struck at the horse madly with his stick. the driver laughed and whipped up. he laughed in answer, and the man was silent. the way seemed interminable, and the streets like the black web of some sprawling spider. the monotony became unbearable, and as the mist thickened, he felt afraid. then they passed by lonely brickfields. the fog was lighter here, and he could see the strange, bottle-shaped kilns with their orange, fanlike tongues of fire. a dog barked as they went by, and far away in the darkness some wandering sea-gull screamed. the horse stumbled in a rut, then swerved aside and broke into a gallop. after some time they left the clay road and rattled again over rough-paven streets. most of the windows were dark, but now and then fantastic shadows were silhouetted against some lamplit blind. he watched them curiously. they moved like monstrous marionettes and made gestures like live things. he hated them. a dull rage was in his heart. as they turned a corner, a woman yelled something at them from an open door, and two men ran after the hansom for about a hundred yards. the driver beat at them with his whip. it is said that passion makes one think in a circle. certainly with hideous iteration the bitten lips of dorian gray shaped and reshaped those subtle words that dealt with soul and sense, till he had found in them the full expression, as it were, of his mood, and justified, by intellectual approval, passions that without such justification would still have dominated his temper. from cell to cell of his brain crept the one thought; and the wild desire to live, most terrible of all man's appetites, quickened into force each trembling nerve and fibre. ugliness that had once been hateful to him because it made things real, became dear to him now for that very reason. ugliness was the one reality. the coarse brawl, the loathsome den, the crude violence of disordered life, the very vileness of thief and outcast, were more vivid, in their intense actuality of impression, than all the gracious shapes of art, the dreamy shadows of song. they were what he needed for forgetfulness. in three days he would be free. suddenly the man drew up with a jerk at the top of a dark lane. over the low roofs and jagged chimney-stacks of the houses rose the black masts of ships. wreaths of white mist clung like ghostly sails to the yards. "somewhere about here, sir, ain't it?" he asked huskily through the trap. dorian started and peered round. "this will do," he answered, and having got out hastily and given the driver the extra fare he had promised him, he walked quickly in the direction of the quay. here and there a lantern gleamed at the stern of some huge merchantman. the light shook and splintered in the puddles. a red glare came from an outward-bound steamer that was coaling. the slimy pavement looked like a wet mackintosh. he hurried on towards the left, glancing back now and then to see if he was being followed. in about seven or eight minutes he reached a small shabby house that was wedged in between two gaunt factories. in one of the top-windows stood a lamp. he stopped and gave a peculiar knock. after a little time he heard steps in the passage and the chain being unhooked. the door opened quietly, and he went in without saying a word to the squat misshapen figure that flattened itself into the shadow as he passed. at the end of the hall hung a tattered green curtain that swayed and shook in the gusty wind which had followed him in from the street. he dragged it aside and entered a long low room which looked as if it had once been a third-rate dancing-saloon. shrill flaring gas-jets, dulled and distorted in the fly-blown mirrors that faced them, were ranged round the walls. greasy reflectors of ribbed tin backed them, making quivering disks of light. the floor was covered with ochre-coloured sawdust, trampled here and there into mud, and stained with dark rings of spilled liquor. some malays were crouching by a little charcoal stove, playing with bone counters and showing their white teeth as they chattered. in one corner, with his head buried in his arms, a sailor sprawled over a table, and by the tawdrily painted bar that ran across one complete side stood two haggard women, mocking an old man who was brushing the sleeves of his coat with an expression of disgust. "he thinks he's got red ants on him," laughed one of them, as dorian passed by. the man looked at her in terror and began to whimper. at the end of the room there was a little staircase, leading to a darkened chamber. as dorian hurried up its three rickety steps, the heavy odour of opium met him. he heaved a deep breath, and his nostrils quivered with pleasure. when he entered, a young man with smooth yellow hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up at him and nodded in a hesitating manner. "you here, adrian?" muttered dorian. "where else should i be?" he answered, listlessly. "none of the chaps will speak to me now." "i thought you had left england." "darlington is not going to do anything. my brother paid the bill at last. george doesn't speak to me either.... i don't care," he added with a sigh. "as long as one has this stuff, one doesn't want friends. i think i have had too many friends." dorian winced and looked round at the grotesque things that lay in such fantastic postures on the ragged mattresses. the twisted limbs, the gaping mouths, the staring lustreless eyes, fascinated him. he knew in what strange heavens they were suffering, and what dull hells were teaching them the secret of some new joy. they were better off than he was. he was prisoned in thought. memory, like a horrible malady, was eating his soul away. from time to time he seemed to see the eyes of basil hallward looking at him. yet he felt he could not stay. the presence of adrian singleton troubled him. he wanted to be where no one would know who he was. he wanted to escape from himself. "i am going on to the other place," he said after a pause. "on the wharf?" "yes." "that mad-cat is sure to be there. they won't have her in this place now." dorian shrugged his shoulders. "i am sick of women who love one. women who hate one are much more interesting. besides, the stuff is better." "much the same." "i like it better. come and have something to drink. i must have something." "i don't want anything," murmured the young man. "never mind." adrian singleton rose up wearily and followed dorian to the bar. a half-caste, in a ragged turban and a shabby ulster, grinned a hideous greeting as he thrust a bottle of brandy and two tumblers in front of them. the women sidled up and began to chatter. dorian turned his back on them and said something in a low voice to adrian singleton. a crooked smile, like a malay crease, writhed across the face of one of the women. "we are very proud to-night," she sneered. "for god's sake don't talk to me," cried dorian, stamping his foot on the ground. "what do you want? money? here it is. don't ever talk to me again." two red sparks flashed for a moment in the woman's sodden eyes, then flickered out and left them dull and glazed. she tossed her head and raked the coins off the counter with greedy fingers. her companion watched her enviously. "it's no use," sighed adrian singleton. "i don't care to go back. what does it matter? i am quite happy here." "you will write to me if you want anything, won't you?" said dorian, after a pause. "perhaps." "good night, then." "good night," answered the young man, passing up the steps and wiping his parched mouth with a handkerchief. dorian walked to the door with a look of pain in his face. as he drew the curtain aside, a hideous laugh broke from the painted lips of the woman who had taken his money. "there goes the devil's bargain!" she hiccoughed, in a hoarse voice. "curse you!" he answered, "don't call me that." she snapped her fingers. "prince charming is what you like to be called, ain't it?" she yelled after him. the drowsy sailor leaped to his feet as she spoke, and looked wildly round. the sound of the shutting of the hall door fell on his ear. he rushed out as if in pursuit. dorian gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain. his meeting with adrian singleton had strangely moved him, and he wondered if the ruin of that young life was really to be laid at his door, as basil hallward had said to him with such infamy of insult. he bit his lip, and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad. yet, after all, what did it matter to him? one's days were too brief to take the burden of another's errors on one's shoulders. each man lived his own life and paid his own price for living it. the only pity was one had to pay so often for a single fault. one had to pay over and over again, indeed. in her dealings with man, destiny never closed her accounts. there are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or for what the world calls sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful impulses. men and women at such moments lose the freedom of their will. they move to their terrible end as automatons move. choice is taken from them, and conscience is either killed, or, if it lives at all, lives but to give rebellion its fascination and disobedience its charm. for all sins, as theologians weary not of reminding us, are sins of disobedience. when that high spirit, that morning star of evil, fell from heaven, it was as a rebel that he fell. callous, concentrated on evil, with stained mind, and soul hungry for rebellion, dorian gray hastened on, quickening his step as he went, but as he darted aside into a dim archway, that had served him often as a short cut to the ill-famed place where he was going, he felt himself suddenly seized from behind, and before he had time to defend himself, he was thrust back against the wall, with a brutal hand round his throat. he struggled madly for life, and by a terrible effort wrenched the tightening fingers away. in a second he heard the click of a revolver, and saw the gleam of a polished barrel, pointing straight at his head, and the dusky form of a short, thick-set man facing him. "what do you want?" he gasped. "keep quiet," said the man. "if you stir, i shoot you." "you are mad. what have i done to you?" "you wrecked the life of sibyl vane," was the answer, "and sibyl vane was my sister. she killed herself. i know it. her death is at your door. i swore i would kill you in return. for years i have sought you. i had no clue, no trace. the two people who could have described you were dead. i knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you. i heard it to-night by chance. make your peace with god, for to-night you are going to die." dorian gray grew sick with fear. "i never knew her," he stammered. "i never heard of her. you are mad." "you had better confess your sin, for as sure as i am james vane, you are going to die." there was a horrible moment. dorian did not know what to say or do. "down on your knees!" growled the man. "i give you one minute to make your peace--no more. i go on board to-night for india, and i must do my job first. one minute. that's all." dorian's arms fell to his side. paralysed with terror, he did not know what to do. suddenly a wild hope flashed across his brain. "stop," he cried. "how long ago is it since your sister died? quick, tell me!" "eighteen years," said the man. "why do you ask me? what do years matter?" "eighteen years," laughed dorian gray, with a touch of triumph in his voice. "eighteen years! set me under the lamp and look at my face!" james vane hesitated for a moment, not understanding what was meant. then he seized dorian gray and dragged him from the archway. dim and wavering as was the wind-blown light, yet it served to show him the hideous error, as it seemed, into which he had fallen, for the face of the man he had sought to kill had all the bloom of boyhood, all the unstained purity of youth. he seemed little more than a lad of twenty summers, hardly older, if older indeed at all, than his sister had been when they had parted so many years ago. it was obvious that this was not the man who had destroyed her life. he loosened his hold and reeled back. "my god! my god!" he cried, "and i would have murdered you!" dorian gray drew a long breath. "you have been on the brink of committing a terrible crime, my man," he said, looking at him sternly. "let this be a warning to you not to take vengeance into your own hands." "forgive me, sir," muttered james vane. "i was deceived. a chance word i heard in that damned den set me on the wrong track." "you had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into trouble," said dorian, turning on his heel and going slowly down the street. james vane stood on the pavement in horror. he was trembling from head to foot. after a little while, a black shadow that had been creeping along the dripping wall moved out into the light and came close to him with stealthy footsteps. he felt a hand laid on his arm and looked round with a start. it was one of the women who had been drinking at the bar. "why didn't you kill him?" she hissed out, putting haggard face quite close to his. "i knew you were following him when you rushed out from daly's. you fool! you should have killed him. he has lots of money, and he's as bad as bad." "he is not the man i am looking for," he answered, "and i want no man's money. i want a man's life. the man whose life i want must be nearly forty now. this one is little more than a boy. thank god, i have not got his blood upon my hands." the woman gave a bitter laugh. "little more than a boy!" she sneered. "why, man, it's nigh on eighteen years since prince charming made me what i am." "you lie!" cried james vane. she raised her hand up to heaven. "before god i am telling the truth," she cried. "before god?" "strike me dumb if it ain't so. he is the worst one that comes here. they say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face. it's nigh on eighteen years since i met him. he hasn't changed much since then. i have, though," she added, with a sickly leer. "you swear this?" "i swear it," came in hoarse echo from her flat mouth. "but don't give me away to him," she whined; "i am afraid of him. let me have some money for my night's lodging." he broke from her with an oath and rushed to the corner of the street, but dorian gray had disappeared. when he looked back, the woman had vanished also. chapter <UNK> a week later dorian gray was sitting in the conservatory at selby royal, talking to the pretty duchess of monmouth, who with her husband, a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests. it was tea-time, and the mellow light of the huge, lace-covered lamp that stood on the table lit up the delicate china and hammered silver of the service at which the duchess was presiding. her white hands were moving daintily among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that dorian had whispered to her. lord henry was lying back in a silk-draped wicker chair, looking at them. on a peach-coloured divan sat lady narborough, pretending to listen to the duke's description of the last brazilian beetle that he had added to his collection. three young men in elaborate smoking-suits were handing tea-cakes to some of the women. the house-party consisted of twelve people, and there were more expected to arrive on the next day. "what are you two talking about?" said lord henry, strolling over to the table and putting his cup down. "i hope dorian has told you about my plan for rechristening everything, gladys. it is a delightful idea." "but i don't want to be rechristened, harry," rejoined the duchess, looking up at him with her wonderful eyes. "i am quite satisfied with my own name, and i am sure mr. gray should be satisfied with his." "my dear gladys, i would not alter either name for the world. they are both perfect. i was thinking chiefly of flowers. yesterday i cut an orchid, for my button-hole. it was a marvellous spotted thing, as effective as the seven deadly sins. in a thoughtless moment i asked one of the gardeners what it was called. he told me it was a fine specimen of _robinsoniana_, or something dreadful of that kind. it is a sad truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving lovely names to things. names are everything. i never quarrel with actions. my one quarrel is with words. that is the reason i hate vulgar realism in literature. the man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one. it is the only thing he is fit for." "then what should we call you, harry?" she asked. "his name is prince paradox," said dorian. "i recognize him in a flash," exclaimed the duchess. "i won't hear of it," laughed lord henry, sinking into a chair. "from a label there is no escape! i refuse the title." "royalties may not abdicate," fell as a warning from pretty lips. "you wish me to defend my throne, then?" "yes." "i give the truths of to-morrow." "i prefer the mistakes of to-day," she answered. "you disarm me, gladys," he cried, catching the wilfulness of her mood. "of your shield, harry, not of your spear." "i never tilt against beauty," he said, with a wave of his hand. "that is your error, harry, believe me. you value beauty far too much." "how can you say that? i admit that i think that it is better to be beautiful than to be good. but on the other hand, no one is more ready than i am to acknowledge that it is better to be good than to be ugly." "ugliness is one of the seven deadly sins, then?" cried the duchess. "what becomes of your simile about the orchid?" "ugliness is one of the seven deadly virtues, gladys. you, as a good tory, must not underrate them. beer, the bible, and the seven deadly virtues have made our england what she is." "you don't like your country, then?" she asked. "i live in it." "that you may censure it the better." "would you have me take the verdict of europe on it?" he inquired. "what do they say of us?" "that tartuffe has emigrated to england and opened a shop." "is that yours, harry?" "i give it to you." "i could not use it. it is too true." "you need not be afraid. our countrymen never recognize a description." "they are practical." "they are more cunning than practical. when they make up their ledger, they balance stupidity by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy." "still, we have done great things." "great things have been thrust on us, gladys." "we have carried their burden." "only as far as the stock exchange." she shook her head. "i believe in the race," she cried. "it represents the survival of the pushing." "it has development." "decay fascinates me more." "what of art?" she asked. "it is a malady." "love?" "an illusion." "religion?" "the fashionable substitute for belief." "you are a sceptic." "never! scepticism is the beginning of faith." "what are you?" "to define is to limit." "give me a clue." "threads snap. you would lose your way in the labyrinth." "you bewilder me. let us talk of some one else." "our host is a delightful topic. years ago he was christened prince charming." "ah! don't remind me of that," cried dorian gray. "our host is rather horrid this evening," answered the duchess, colouring. "i believe he thinks that monmouth married me on purely scientific principles as the best specimen he could find of a modern butterfly." "well, i hope he won't stick pins into you, duchess," laughed dorian. "oh! my maid does that already, mr. gray, when she is annoyed with me." "and what does she get annoyed with you about, duchess?" "for the most trivial things, mr. gray, i assure you. usually because i come in at ten minutes to nine and tell her that i must be dressed by half-past eight." "how unreasonable of her! you should give her warning." "i daren't, mr. gray. why, she invents hats for me. you remember the one i wore at lady hilstone's garden-party? you don't, but it is nice of you to pretend that you do. well, she made it out of nothing. all good hats are made out of nothing." "like all good reputations, gladys," interrupted lord henry. "every effect that one produces gives one an enemy. to be popular one must be a mediocrity." "not with women," said the duchess, shaking her head; "and women rule the world. i assure you we can't bear mediocrities. we women, as some one says, love with our ears, just as you men love with your eyes, if you ever love at all." "it seems to me that we never do anything else," murmured dorian. "ah! then, you never really love, mr. gray," answered the duchess with mock sadness. "my dear gladys!" cried lord henry. "how can you say that? romance lives by repetition, and repetition converts an appetite into an art. besides, each time that one loves is the only time one has ever loved. difference of object does not alter singleness of passion. it merely intensifies it. we can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible." "even when one has been wounded by it, harry?" asked the duchess after a pause. "especially when one has been wounded by it," answered lord henry. the duchess turned and looked at dorian gray with a curious expression in her eyes. "what do you say to that, mr. gray?" she inquired. dorian hesitated for a moment. then he threw his head back and laughed. "i always agree with harry, duchess." "even when he is wrong?" "harry is never wrong, duchess." "and does his philosophy make you happy?" "i have never searched for happiness. who wants happiness? i have searched for pleasure." "and found it, mr. gray?" "often. too often." the duchess sighed. "i am searching for peace," she said, "and if i don't go and dress, i shall have none this evening." "let me get you some orchids, duchess," cried dorian, starting to his feet and walking down the conservatory. "you are flirting disgracefully with him," said lord henry to his cousin. "you had better take care. he is very fascinating." "if he were not, there would be no battle." "greek meets greek, then?" "i am on the side of the trojans. they fought for a woman." "they were defeated." "there are worse things than capture," she answered. "you gallop with a loose rein." "pace gives life," was the _riposte_. "i shall write it in my diary to-night." "what?" "that a burnt child loves the fire." "i am not even singed. my wings are untouched." "you use them for everything, except flight." "courage has passed from men to women. it is a new experience for us." "you have a rival." "who?" he laughed. "lady narborough," he whispered. "she perfectly adores him." "you fill me with apprehension. the appeal to antiquity is fatal to us who are romanticists." "romanticists! you have all the methods of science." "men have educated us." "but not explained you." "describe us as a sex," was her challenge. "sphinxes without secrets." she looked at him, smiling. "how long mr. gray is!" she said. "let us go and help him. i have not yet told him the colour of my frock." "ah! you must suit your frock to his flowers, gladys." "that would be a premature surrender." "romantic art begins with its climax." "i must keep an opportunity for retreat." "in the parthian manner?" "they found safety in the desert. i could not do that." "women are not always allowed a choice," he answered, but hardly had he finished the sentence before from the far end of the conservatory came a stifled groan, followed by the dull sound of a heavy fall. everybody started up. the duchess stood motionless in horror. and with fear in his eyes, lord henry rushed through the flapping palms to find dorian gray lying face downwards on the tiled floor in a deathlike swoon. he was carried at once into the blue drawing-room and laid upon one of the sofas. after a short time, he came to himself and looked round with a dazed expression. "what has happened?" he asked. "oh! i remember. am i safe here, harry?" he began to tremble. "my dear dorian," answered lord henry, "you merely fainted. that was all. you must have overtired yourself. you had better not come down to dinner. i will take your place." "no, i will come down," he said, struggling to his feet. "i would rather come down. i must not be alone." he went to his room and dressed. there was a wild recklessness of gaiety in his manner as he sat at table, but now and then a thrill of terror ran through him when he remembered that, pressed against the window of the conservatory, like a white handkerchief, he had seen the face of james vane watching him. chapter <UNK> the next day he did not leave the house, and, indeed, spent most of the time in his own room, sick with a wild terror of dying, and yet indifferent to life itself. the consciousness of being hunted, snared, tracked down, had begun to dominate him. if the tapestry did but tremble in the wind, he shook. the dead leaves that were blown against the leaded panes seemed to him like his own wasted resolutions and wild regrets. when he closed his eyes, he saw again the sailor's face peering through the mist-stained glass, and horror seemed once more to lay its hand upon his heart. but perhaps it had been only his fancy that had called vengeance out of the night and set the hideous shapes of punishment before him. actual life was chaos, but there was something terribly logical in the imagination. it was the imagination that set remorse to dog the feet of sin. it was the imagination that made each crime bear its misshapen brood. in the common world of fact the wicked were not punished, nor the good rewarded. success was given to the strong, failure thrust upon the weak. that was all. besides, had any stranger been prowling round the house, he would have been seen by the servants or the keepers. had any foot-marks been found on the flower-beds, the gardeners would have reported it. yes, it had been merely fancy. sibyl vane's brother had not come back to kill him. he had sailed away in his ship to founder in some winter sea. from him, at any rate, he was safe. why, the man did not know who he was, could not know who he was. the mask of youth had saved him. and yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think that conscience could raise such fearful phantoms, and give them visible form, and make them move before one! what sort of life would his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep! as the thought crept through his brain, he grew pale with terror, and the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder. oh! in what a wild hour of madness he had killed his friend! how ghastly the mere memory of the scene! he saw it all again. each hideous detail came back to him with added horror. out of the black cave of time, terrible and swathed in scarlet, rose the image of his sin. when lord henry came in at six o'clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break. it was not till the third day that he ventured to go out. there was something in the clear, pine-scented air of that winter morning that seemed to bring him back his joyousness and his ardour for life. but it was not merely the physical conditions of environment that had caused the change. his own nature had revolted against the excess of anguish that had sought to maim and mar the perfection of its calm. with subtle and finely wrought temperaments it is always so. their strong passions must either bruise or bend. they either slay the man, or themselves die. shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on. the loves and sorrows that are great are destroyed by their own plenitude. besides, he had convinced himself that he had been the victim of a terror-stricken imagination, and looked back now on his fears with something of pity and not a little of contempt. after breakfast, he walked with the duchess for an hour in the garden and then drove across the park to join the shooting-party. the crisp frost lay like salt upon the grass. the sky was an inverted cup of blue metal. a thin film of ice bordered the flat, reed-grown lake. at the corner of the pine-wood he caught sight of sir geoffrey clouston, the duchess's brother, jerking two spent cartridges out of his gun. he jumped from the cart, and having told the groom to take the mare home, made his way towards his guest through the withered bracken and rough undergrowth. "have you had good sport, geoffrey?" he asked. "not very good, dorian. i think most of the birds have gone to the open. i dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to new ground." dorian strolled along by his side. the keen aromatic air, the brown and red lights that glimmered in the wood, the hoarse cries of the beaters ringing out from time to time, and the sharp snaps of the guns that followed, fascinated him and filled him with a sense of delightful freedom. he was dominated by the carelessness of happiness, by the high indifference of joy. suddenly from a lumpy tussock of old grass some twenty yards in front of them, with black-tipped ears erect and long hinder limbs throwing it forward, started a hare. it bolted for a thicket of alders. sir geoffrey put his gun to his shoulder, but there was something in the animal's grace of movement that strangely charmed dorian gray, and he cried out at once, "don't shoot it, geoffrey. let it live." "what nonsense, dorian!" laughed his companion, and as the hare bounded into the thicket, he fired. there were two cries heard, the cry of a hare in pain, which is dreadful, the cry of a man in agony, which is worse. "good heavens! i have hit a beater!" exclaimed sir geoffrey. "what an ass the man was to get in front of the guns! stop shooting there!" he called out at the top of his voice. "a man is hurt." the head-keeper came running up with a stick in his hand. "where, sir? where is he?" he shouted. at the same time, the firing ceased along the line. "here," answered sir geoffrey angrily, hurrying towards the thicket. "why on earth don't you keep your men back? spoiled my shooting for the day." dorian watched them as they plunged into the alder-clump, brushing the lithe swinging branches aside. in a few moments they emerged, dragging a body after them into the sunlight. he turned away in horror. it seemed to him that misfortune followed wherever he went. he heard sir geoffrey ask if the man was really dead, and the affirmative answer of the keeper. the wood seemed to him to have become suddenly alive with faces. there was the trampling of myriad feet and the low buzz of voices. a great copper-breasted pheasant came beating through the boughs overhead. after a few moments--that were to him, in his perturbed state, like endless hours of pain--he felt a hand laid on his shoulder. he started and looked round. "dorian," said lord henry, "i had better tell them that the shooting is stopped for to-day. it would not look well to go on." "i wish it were stopped for ever, harry," he answered bitterly. "the whole thing is hideous and cruel. is the man ...?" he could not finish the sentence. "i am afraid so," rejoined lord henry. "he got the whole charge of shot in his chest. he must have died almost instantaneously. come; let us go home." they walked side by side in the direction of the avenue for nearly fifty yards without speaking. then dorian looked at lord henry and said, with a heavy sigh, "it is a bad omen, harry, a very bad omen." "what is?" asked lord henry. "oh! this accident, i suppose. my dear fellow, it can't be helped. it was the man's own fault. why did he get in front of the guns? besides, it is nothing to us. it is rather awkward for geoffrey, of course. it does not do to pepper beaters. it makes people think that one is a wild shot. and geoffrey is not; he shoots very straight. but there is no use talking about the matter." dorian shook his head. "it is a bad omen, harry. i feel as if something horrible were going to happen to some of us. to myself, perhaps," he added, passing his hand over his eyes, with a gesture of pain. the elder man laughed. "the only horrible thing in the world is _ennui_, dorian. that is the one sin for which there is no forgiveness. but we are not likely to suffer from it unless these fellows keep chattering about this thing at dinner. i must tell them that the subject is to be tabooed. as for omens, there is no such thing as an omen. destiny does not send us heralds. she is too wise or too cruel for that. besides, what on earth could happen to you, dorian? you have everything in the world that a man can want. there is no one who would not be delighted to change places with you." "there is no one with whom i would not change places, harry. don't laugh like that. i am telling you the truth. the wretched peasant who has just died is better off than i am. i have no terror of death. it is the coming of death that terrifies me. its monstrous wings seem to wheel in the leaden air around me. good heavens! don't you see a man moving behind the trees there, watching me, waiting for me?" lord henry looked in the direction in which the trembling gloved hand was pointing. "yes," he said, smiling, "i see the gardener waiting for you. i suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the table to-night. how absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow! you must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town." dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching. the man touched his hat, glanced for a moment at lord henry in a hesitating manner, and then produced a letter, which he handed to his master. "her grace told me to wait for an answer," he murmured. dorian put the letter into his pocket. "tell her grace that i am coming in," he said, coldly. the man turned round and went rapidly in the direction of the house. "how fond women are of doing dangerous things!" laughed lord henry. "it is one of the qualities in them that i admire most. a woman will flirt with anybody in the world as long as other people are looking on." "how fond you are of saying dangerous things, harry! in the present instance, you are quite astray. i like the duchess very much, but i don't love her." "and the duchess loves you very much, but she likes you less, so you are excellently matched." "you are talking scandal, harry, and there is never any basis for scandal." "the basis of every scandal is an immoral certainty," said lord henry, lighting a cigarette. "you would sacrifice anybody, harry, for the sake of an epigram." "the world goes to the altar of its own accord," was the answer. "i wish i could love," cried dorian gray with a deep note of pathos in his voice. "but i seem to have lost the passion and forgotten the desire. i am too much concentrated on myself. my own personality has become a burden to me. i want to escape, to go away, to forget. it was silly of me to come down here at all. i think i shall send a wire to harvey to have the yacht got ready. on a yacht one is safe." "safe from what, dorian? you are in some trouble. why not tell me what it is? you know i would help you." "i can't tell you, harry," he answered sadly. "and i dare say it is only a fancy of mine. this unfortunate accident has upset me. i have a horrible presentiment that something of the kind may happen to me." "what nonsense!" "i hope it is, but i can't help feeling it. ah! here is the duchess, looking like artemis in a tailor-made gown. you see we have come back, duchess." "i have heard all about it, mr. gray," she answered. "poor geoffrey is terribly upset. and it seems that you asked him not to shoot the hare. how curious!" "yes, it was very curious. i don't know what made me say it. some whim, i suppose. it looked the loveliest of little live things. but i am sorry they told you about the man. it is a hideous subject." "it is an annoying subject," broke in lord henry. "it has no psychological value at all. now if geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be! i should like to know some one who had committed a real murder." "how horrid of you, harry!" cried the duchess. "isn't it, mr. gray? harry, mr. gray is ill again. he is going to faint." dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled. "it is nothing, duchess," he murmured; "my nerves are dreadfully out of order. that is all. i am afraid i walked too far this morning. i didn't hear what harry said. was it very bad? you must tell me some other time. i think i must go and lie down. you will excuse me, won't you?" they had reached the great flight of steps that led from the conservatory on to the terrace. as the glass door closed behind dorian, lord henry turned and looked at the duchess with his slumberous eyes. "are you very much in love with him?" he asked. she did not answer for some time, but stood gazing at the landscape. "i wish i knew," she said at last. he shook his head. "knowledge would be fatal. it is the uncertainty that charms one. a mist makes things wonderful." "one may lose one's way." "all ways end at the same point, my dear gladys." "what is that?" "disillusion." "it was my _debut_ in life," she sighed. "it came to you crowned." "i am tired of strawberry leaves." "they become you." "only in public." "you would miss them," said lord henry. "i will not part with a petal." "monmouth has ears." "old age is dull of hearing." "has he never been jealous?" "i wish he had been." he glanced about as if in search of something. "what are you looking for?" she inquired. "the button from your foil," he answered. "you have dropped it." she laughed. "i have still the mask." "it makes your eyes lovelier," was his reply. she laughed again. her teeth showed like white seeds in a scarlet fruit. upstairs, in his own room, dorian gray was lying on a sofa, with terror in every tingling fibre of his body. life had suddenly become too hideous a burden for him to bear. the dreadful death of the unlucky beater, shot in the thicket like a wild animal, had seemed to him to pre-figure death for himself also. he had nearly swooned at what lord henry had said in a chance mood of cynical jesting. at five o'clock he rang his bell for his servant and gave him orders to pack his things for the night-express to town, and to have the brougham at the door by eight-thirty. he was determined not to sleep another night at selby royal. it was an ill-omened place. death walked there in the sunlight. the grass of the forest had been spotted with blood. then he wrote a note to lord henry, telling him that he was going up to town to consult his doctor and asking him to entertain his guests in his absence. as he was putting it into the envelope, a knock came to the door, and his valet informed him that the head-keeper wished to see him. he frowned and bit his lip. "send him in," he muttered, after some moments' hesitation. as soon as the man entered, dorian pulled his chequebook out of a drawer and spread it out before him. "i suppose you have come about the unfortunate accident of this morning, thornton?" he said, taking up a pen. "yes, sir," answered the gamekeeper. "was the poor fellow married? had he any people dependent on him?" asked dorian, looking bored. "if so, i should not like them to be left in want, and will send them any sum of money you may think necessary." "we don't know who he is, sir. that is what i took the liberty of coming to you about." "don't know who he is?" said dorian, listlessly. "what do you mean? wasn't he one of your men?" "no, sir. never saw him before. seems like a sailor, sir." the pen dropped from dorian gray's hand, and he felt as if his heart had suddenly stopped beating. "a sailor?" he cried out. "did you say a sailor?" "yes, sir. he looks as if he had been a sort of sailor; tattooed on both arms, and that kind of thing." "was there anything found on him?" said dorian, leaning forward and looking at the man with startled eyes. "anything that would tell his name?" "some money, sir--not much, and a six-shooter. there was no name of any kind. a decent-looking man, sir, but rough-like. a sort of sailor we think." dorian started to his feet. a terrible hope fluttered past him. he clutched at it madly. "where is the body?" he exclaimed. "quick! i must see it at once." "it is in an empty stable in the home farm, sir. the folk don't like to have that sort of thing in their houses. they say a corpse brings bad luck." "the home farm! go there at once and meet me. tell one of the grooms to bring my horse round. no. never mind. i'll go to the stables myself. it will save time." in less than a quarter of an hour, dorian gray was galloping down the long avenue as hard as he could go. the trees seemed to sweep past him in spectral procession, and wild shadows to fling themselves across his path. once the mare swerved at a white gate-post and nearly threw him. he lashed her across the neck with his crop. she cleft the dusky air like an arrow. the stones flew from her hoofs. at last he reached the home farm. two men were loitering in the yard. he leaped from the saddle and threw the reins to one of them. in the farthest stable a light was glimmering. something seemed to tell him that the body was there, and he hurried to the door and put his hand upon the latch. there he paused for a moment, feeling that he was on the brink of a discovery that would either make or mar his life. then he thrust the door open and entered. on a heap of sacking in the far corner was lying the dead body of a man dressed in a coarse shirt and a pair of blue trousers. a spotted handkerchief had been placed over the face. a coarse candle, stuck in a bottle, sputtered beside it. dorian gray shuddered. he felt that his could not be the hand to take the handkerchief away, and called out to one of the farm-servants to come to him. "take that thing off the face. i wish to see it," he said, clutching at the door-post for support. when the farm-servant had done so, he stepped forward. a cry of joy broke from his lips. the man who had been shot in the thicket was james vane. he stood there for some minutes looking at the dead body. as he rode home, his eyes were full of tears, for he knew he was safe. chapter <UNK> "there is no use your telling me that you are going to be good," cried lord henry, dipping his white fingers into a red copper bowl filled with rose-water. "you are quite perfect. pray, don't change." dorian gray shook his head. "no, harry, i have done too many dreadful things in my life. i am not going to do any more. i began my good actions yesterday." "where were you yesterday?" "in the country, harry. i was staying at a little inn by myself." "my dear boy," said lord henry, smiling, "anybody can be good in the country. there are no temptations there. that is the reason why people who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized. civilization is not by any means an easy thing to attain to. there are only two ways by which man can reach it. one is by being cultured, the other by being corrupt. country people have no opportunity of being either, so they stagnate." "culture and corruption," echoed dorian. "i have known something of both. it seems terrible to me now that they should ever be found together. for i have a new ideal, harry. i am going to alter. i think i have altered." "you have not yet told me what your good action was. or did you say you had done more than one?" asked his companion as he spilled into his plate a little crimson pyramid of seeded strawberries and, through a perforated, shell-shaped spoon, snowed white sugar upon them. "i can tell you, harry. it is not a story i could tell to any one else. i spared somebody. it sounds vain, but you understand what i mean. she was quite beautiful and wonderfully like sibyl vane. i think it was that which first attracted me to her. you remember sibyl, don't you? how long ago that seems! well, hetty was not one of our own class, of course. she was simply a girl in a village. but i really loved her. i am quite sure that i loved her. all during this wonderful may that we have been having, i used to run down and see her two or three times a week. yesterday she met me in a little orchard. the apple-blossoms kept tumbling down on her hair, and she was laughing. we were to have gone away together this morning at dawn. suddenly i determined to leave her as flowerlike as i had found her." "i should think the novelty of the emotion must have given you a thrill of real pleasure, dorian," interrupted lord henry. "but i can finish your idyll for you. you gave her good advice and broke her heart. that was the beginning of your reformation." "harry, you are horrible! you mustn't say these dreadful things. hetty's heart is not broken. of course, she cried and all that. but there is no disgrace upon her. she can live, like perdita, in her garden of mint and marigold." "and weep over a faithless florizel," said lord henry, laughing, as he leaned back in his chair. "my dear dorian, you have the most curiously boyish moods. do you think this girl will ever be really content now with any one of her own rank? i suppose she will be married some day to a rough carter or a grinning ploughman. well, the fact of having met you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will be wretched. from a moral point of view, i cannot say that i think much of your great renunciation. even as a beginning, it is poor. besides, how do you know that hetty isn't floating at the present moment in some starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like ophelia?" "i can't bear this, harry! you mock at everything, and then suggest the most serious tragedies. i am sorry i told you now. i don't care what you say to me. i know i was right in acting as i did. poor hetty! as i rode past the farm this morning, i saw her white face at the window, like a spray of jasmine. don't let us talk about it any more, and don't try to persuade me that the first good action i have done for years, the first little bit of self-sacrifice i have ever known, is really a sort of sin. i want to be better. i am going to be better. tell me something about yourself. what is going on in town? i have not been to the club for days." "the people are still discussing poor basil's disappearance." "i should have thought they had got tired of that by this time," said dorian, pouring himself out some wine and frowning slightly. "my dear boy, they have only been talking about it for six weeks, and the british public are really not equal to the mental strain of having more than one topic every three months. they have been very fortunate lately, however. they have had my own divorce-case and alan campbell's suicide. now they have got the mysterious disappearance of an artist. scotland yard still insists that the man in the grey ulster who left for paris by the midnight train on the ninth of november was poor basil, and the french police declare that basil never arrived in paris at all. i suppose in about a fortnight we shall be told that he has been seen in san francisco. it is an odd thing, but every one who disappears is said to be seen at san francisco. it must be a delightful city, and possess all the attractions of the next world." "what do you think has happened to basil?" asked dorian, holding up his burgundy against the light and wondering how it was that he could discuss the matter so calmly. "i have not the slightest idea. if basil chooses to hide himself, it is no business of mine. if he is dead, i don't want to think about him. death is the only thing that ever terrifies me. i hate it." "why?" said the younger man wearily. "because," said lord henry, passing beneath his nostrils the gilt trellis of an open vinaigrette box, "one can survive everything nowadays except that. death and vulgarity are the only two facts in the nineteenth century that one cannot explain away. let us have our coffee in the music-room, dorian. you must play chopin to me. the man with whom my wife ran away played chopin exquisitely. poor victoria! i was very fond of her. the house is rather lonely without her. of course, married life is merely a habit, a bad habit. but then one regrets the loss even of one's worst habits. perhaps one regrets them the most. they are such an essential part of one's personality." dorian said nothing, but rose from the table, and passing into the next room, sat down to the piano and let his fingers stray across the white and black ivory of the keys. after the coffee had been brought in, he stopped, and looking over at lord henry, said, "harry, did it ever occur to you that basil was murdered?" lord henry yawned. "basil was very popular, and always wore a waterbury watch. why should he have been murdered? he was not clever enough to have enemies. of course, he had a wonderful genius for painting. but a man can paint like velasquez and yet be as dull as possible. basil was really rather dull. he only interested me once, and that was when he told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you were the dominant motive of his art." "i was very fond of basil," said dorian with a note of sadness in his voice. "but don't people say that he was murdered?" "oh, some of the papers do. it does not seem to me to be at all probable. i know there are dreadful places in paris, but basil was not the sort of man to have gone to them. he had no curiosity. it was his chief defect." "what would you say, harry, if i told you that i had murdered basil?" said the younger man. he watched him intently after he had spoken. "i would say, my dear fellow, that you were posing for a character that doesn't suit you. all crime is vulgar, just as all vulgarity is crime. it is not in you, dorian, to commit a murder. i am sorry if i hurt your vanity by saying so, but i assure you it is true. crime belongs exclusively to the lower orders. i don't blame them in the smallest degree. i should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply a method of procuring extraordinary sensations." "a method of procuring sensations? do you think, then, that a man who has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again? don't tell me that." "oh! anything becomes a pleasure if one does it too often," cried lord henry, laughing. "that is one of the most important secrets of life. i should fancy, however, that murder is always a mistake. one should never do anything that one cannot talk about after dinner. but let us pass from poor basil. i wish i could believe that he had come to such a really romantic end as you suggest, but i can't. i dare say he fell into the seine off an omnibus and that the conductor hushed up the scandal. yes: i should fancy that was his end. i see him lying now on his back under those dull-green waters, with the heavy barges floating over him and long weeds catching in his hair. do you know, i don't think he would have done much more good work. during the last ten years his painting had gone off very much." dorian heaved a sigh, and lord henry strolled across the room and began to stroke the head of a curious java parrot, a large, grey-plumaged bird with pink crest and tail, that was balancing itself upon a bamboo perch. as his pointed fingers touched it, it dropped the white scurf of crinkled lids over black, glasslike eyes and began to sway backwards and forwards. "yes," he continued, turning round and taking his handkerchief out of his pocket; "his painting had quite gone off. it seemed to me to have lost something. it had lost an ideal. when you and he ceased to be great friends, he ceased to be a great artist. what was it separated you? i suppose he bored you. if so, he never forgave you. it's a habit bores have. by the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he did of you? i don't think i have ever seen it since he finished it. oh! i remember your telling me years ago that you had sent it down to selby, and that it had got mislaid or stolen on the way. you never got it back? what a pity! it was really a masterpiece. i remember i wanted to buy it. i wish i had now. it belonged to basil's best period. since then, his work was that curious mixture of bad painting and good intentions that always entitles a man to be called a representative british artist. did you advertise for it? you should." "i forget," said dorian. "i suppose i did. but i never really liked it. i am sorry i sat for it. the memory of the thing is hateful to me. why do you talk of it? it used to remind me of those curious lines in some play--hamlet, i think--how do they run?-- "like the painting of a sorrow, a face without a heart." yes: that is what it was like." lord henry laughed. "if a man treats life artistically, his brain is his heart," he answered, sinking into an arm-chair. dorian gray shook his head and struck some soft chords on the piano. "'like the painting of a sorrow,'" he repeated, "'a face without a heart.'" the elder man lay back and looked at him with half-closed eyes. "by the way, dorian," he said after a pause, "'what does it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose--how does the quotation run?--his own soul'?" the music jarred, and dorian gray started and stared at his friend. "why do you ask me that, harry?" "my dear fellow," said lord henry, elevating his eyebrows in surprise, "i asked you because i thought you might be able to give me an answer. that is all. i was going through the park last sunday, and close by the marble arch there stood a little crowd of shabby-looking people listening to some vulgar street-preacher. as i passed by, i heard the man yelling out that question to his audience. it struck me as being rather dramatic. london is very rich in curious effects of that kind. a wet sunday, an uncouth christian in a mackintosh, a ring of sickly white faces under a broken roof of dripping umbrellas, and a wonderful phrase flung into the air by shrill hysterical lips--it was really very good in its way, quite a suggestion. i thought of telling the prophet that art had a soul, but that man had not. i am afraid, however, he would not have understood me." "don't, harry. the soul is a terrible reality. it can be bought, and sold, and bartered away. it can be poisoned, or made perfect. there is a soul in each one of us. i know it." "do you feel quite sure of that, dorian?" "quite sure." "ah! then it must be an illusion. the things one feels absolutely certain about are never true. that is the fatality of faith, and the lesson of romance. how grave you are! don't be so serious. what have you or i to do with the superstitions of our age? no: we have given up our belief in the soul. play me something. play me a nocturne, dorian, and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your youth. you must have some secret. i am only ten years older than you are, and i am wrinkled, and worn, and yellow. you are really wonderful, dorian. you have never looked more charming than you do to-night. you remind me of the day i saw you first. you were rather cheeky, very shy, and absolutely extraordinary. you have changed, of course, but not in appearance. i wish you would tell me your secret. to get back my youth i would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early, or be respectable. youth! there is nothing like it. it's absurd to talk of the ignorance of youth. the only people to whose opinions i listen now with any respect are people much younger than myself. they seem in front of me. life has revealed to them her latest wonder. as for the aged, i always contradict the aged. i do it on principle. if you ask them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly give you the opinions current in <UNK> when people wore high stocks, believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing. how lovely that thing you are playing is! i wonder, did chopin write it at majorca, with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against the panes? it is marvellously romantic. what a blessing it is that there is one art left to us that is not imitative! don't stop. i want music to-night. it seems to me that you are the young apollo and that i am marsyas listening to you. i have sorrows, dorian, of my own, that even you know nothing of. the tragedy of old age is not that one is old, but that one is young. i am amazed sometimes at my own sincerity. ah, dorian, how happy you are! what an exquisite life you have had! you have drunk deeply of everything. you have crushed the grapes against your palate. nothing has been hidden from you. and it has all been to you no more than the sound of music. it has not marred you. you are still the same." "i am not the same, harry." "yes, you are the same. i wonder what the rest of your life will be. don't spoil it by renunciations. at present you are a perfect type. don't make yourself incomplete. you are quite flawless now. you need not shake your head: you know you are. besides, dorian, don't deceive yourself. life is not governed by will or intention. life is a question of nerves, and fibres, and slowly built-up cells in which thought hides itself and passion has its dreams. you may fancy yourself safe and think yourself strong. but a chance tone of colour in a room or a morning sky, a particular perfume that you had once loved and that brings subtle memories with it, a line from a forgotten poem that you had come across again, a cadence from a piece of music that you had ceased to play--i tell you, dorian, that it is on things like these that our lives depend. browning writes about that somewhere; but our own senses will imagine them for us. there are moments when the odour of _lilas blanc_ passes suddenly across me, and i have to live the strangest month of my life over again. i wish i could change places with you, dorian. the world has cried out against us both, but it has always worshipped you. it always will worship you. you are the type of what the age is searching for, and what it is afraid it has found. i am so glad that you have never done anything, never carved a statue, or painted a picture, or produced anything outside of yourself! life has been your art. you have set yourself to music. your days are your sonnets." dorian rose up from the piano and passed his hand through his hair. "yes, life has been exquisite," he murmured, "but i am not going to have the same life, harry. and you must not say these extravagant things to me. you don't know everything about me. i think that if you did, even you would turn from me. you laugh. don't laugh." "why have you stopped playing, dorian? go back and give me the nocturne over again. look at that great, honey-coloured moon that hangs in the dusky air. she is waiting for you to charm her, and if you play she will come closer to the earth. you won't? let us go to the club, then. it has been a charming evening, and we must end it charmingly. there is some one at white's who wants immensely to know you--young lord poole, bournemouth's eldest son. he has already copied your neckties, and has begged me to introduce him to you. he is quite delightful and rather reminds me of you." "i hope not," said dorian with a sad look in his eyes. "but i am tired to-night, harry. i shan't go to the club. it is nearly eleven, and i want to go to bed early." "do stay. you have never played so well as to-night. there was something in your touch that was wonderful. it had more expression than i had ever heard from it before." "it is because i am going to be good," he answered, smiling. "i am a little changed already." "you cannot change to me, dorian," said lord henry. "you and i will always be friends." "yet you poisoned me with a book once. i should not forgive that. harry, promise me that you will never lend that book to any one. it does harm." "my dear boy, you are really beginning to moralize. you will soon be going about like the converted, and the revivalist, warning people against all the sins of which you have grown tired. you are much too delightful to do that. besides, it is no use. you and i are what we are, and will be what we will be. as for being poisoned by a book, there is no such thing as that. art has no influence upon action. it annihilates the desire to act. it is superbly sterile. the books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame. that is all. but we won't discuss literature. come round to-morrow. i am going to ride at eleven. we might go together, and i will take you to lunch afterwards with lady branksome. she is a charming woman, and wants to consult you about some tapestries she is thinking of buying. mind you come. or shall we lunch with our little duchess? she says she never sees you now. perhaps you are tired of gladys? i thought you would be. her clever tongue gets on one's nerves. well, in any case, be here at eleven." "must i really come, harry?" "certainly. the park is quite lovely now. i don't think there have been such lilacs since the year i met you." "very well. i shall be here at eleven," said dorian. "good night, harry." as he reached the door, he hesitated for a moment, as if he had something more to say. then he sighed and went out. chapter <UNK> it was a lovely night, so warm that he threw his coat over his arm and did not even put his silk scarf round his throat. as he strolled home, smoking his cigarette, two young men in evening dress passed him. he heard one of them whisper to the other, "that is dorian gray." he remembered how pleased he used to be when he was pointed out, or stared at, or talked about. he was tired of hearing his own name now. half the charm of the little village where he had been so often lately was that no one knew who he was. he had often told the girl whom he had lured to love him that he was poor, and she had believed him. he had told her once that he was wicked, and she had laughed at him and answered that wicked people were always very old and very ugly. what a laugh she had!--just like a thrush singing. and how pretty she had been in her cotton dresses and her large hats! she knew nothing, but she had everything that he had lost. when he reached home, he found his servant waiting up for him. he sent him to bed, and threw himself down on the sofa in the library, and began to think over some of the things that lord henry had said to him. was it really true that one could never change? he felt a wild longing for the unstained purity of his boyhood--his rose-white boyhood, as lord henry had once called it. he knew that he had tarnished himself, filled his mind with corruption and given horror to his fancy; that he had been an evil influence to others, and had experienced a terrible joy in being so; and that of the lives that had crossed his own, it had been the fairest and the most full of promise that he had brought to shame. but was it all irretrievable? was there no hope for him? ah! in what a monstrous moment of pride and passion he had prayed that the portrait should bear the burden of his days, and he keep the unsullied splendour of eternal youth! all his failure had been due to that. better for him that each sin of his life had brought its sure swift penalty along with it. there was purification in punishment. not "forgive us our sins" but "smite us for our iniquities" should be the prayer of man to a most just god. the curiously carved mirror that lord henry had given to him, so many years ago now, was standing on the table, and the white-limbed cupids laughed round it as of old. he took it up, as he had done on that night of horror when he had first noted the change in the fatal picture, and with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its polished shield. once, some one who had terribly loved him had written to him a mad letter, ending with these idolatrous words: "the world is changed because you are made of ivory and gold. the curves of your lips rewrite history." the phrases came back to his memory, and he repeated them over and over to himself. then he loathed his own beauty, and flinging the mirror on the floor, crushed it into silver splinters beneath his heel. it was his beauty that had ruined him, his beauty and the youth that he had prayed for. but for those two things, his life might have been free from stain. his beauty had been to him but a mask, his youth but a mockery. what was youth at best? a green, an unripe time, a time of shallow moods, and sickly thoughts. why had he worn its livery? youth had spoiled him. it was better not to think of the past. nothing could alter that. it was of himself, and of his own future, that he had to think. james vane was hidden in a nameless grave in selby churchyard. alan campbell had shot himself one night in his laboratory, but had not revealed the secret that he had been forced to know. the excitement, such as it was, over basil hallward's disappearance would soon pass away. it was already waning. he was perfectly safe there. nor, indeed, was it the death of basil hallward that weighed most upon his mind. it was the living death of his own soul that troubled him. basil had painted the portrait that had marred his life. he could not forgive him that. it was the portrait that had done everything. basil had said things to him that were unbearable, and that he had yet borne with patience. the murder had been simply the madness of a moment. as for alan campbell, his suicide had been his own act. he had chosen to do it. it was nothing to him. a new life! that was what he wanted. that was what he was waiting for. surely he had begun it already. he had spared one innocent thing, at any rate. he would never again tempt innocence. he would be good. as he thought of hetty merton, he began to wonder if the portrait in the locked room had changed. surely it was not still so horrible as it had been? perhaps if his life became pure, he would be able to expel every sign of evil passion from the face. perhaps the signs of evil had already gone away. he would go and look. he took the lamp from the table and crept upstairs. as he unbarred the door, a smile of joy flitted across his strangely young-looking face and lingered for a moment about his lips. yes, he would be good, and the hideous thing that he had hidden away would no longer be a terror to him. he felt as if the load had been lifted from him already. he went in quietly, locking the door behind him, as was his custom, and dragged the purple hanging from the portrait. a cry of pain and indignation broke from him. he could see no change, save that in the eyes there was a look of cunning and in the mouth the curved wrinkle of the hypocrite. the thing was still loathsome--more loathsome, if possible, than before--and the scarlet dew that spotted the hand seemed brighter, and more like blood newly spilled. then he trembled. had it been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed? or the desire for a new sensation, as lord henry had hinted, with his mocking laugh? or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things finer than we are ourselves? or, perhaps, all these? and why was the red stain larger than it had been? it seemed to have crept like a horrible disease over the wrinkled fingers. there was blood on the painted feet, as though the thing had dripped--blood even on the hand that had not held the knife. confess? did it mean that he was to confess? to give himself up and be put to death? he laughed. he felt that the idea was monstrous. besides, even if he did confess, who would believe him? there was no trace of the murdered man anywhere. everything belonging to him had been destroyed. he himself had burned what had been below-stairs. the world would simply say that he was mad. they would shut him up if he persisted in his story.... yet it was his duty to confess, to suffer public shame, and to make public atonement. there was a god who called upon men to tell their sins to earth as well as to heaven. nothing that he could do would cleanse him till he had told his own sin. his sin? he shrugged his shoulders. the death of basil hallward seemed very little to him. he was thinking of hetty merton. for it was an unjust mirror, this mirror of his soul that he was looking at. vanity? curiosity? hypocrisy? had there been nothing more in his renunciation than that? there had been something more. at least he thought so. but who could tell? ... no. there had been nothing more. through vanity he had spared her. in hypocrisy he had worn the mask of goodness. for curiosity's sake he had tried the denial of self. he recognized that now. but this murder--was it to dog him all his life? was he always to be burdened by his past? was he really to confess? never. there was only one bit of evidence left against him. the picture itself--that was evidence. he would destroy it. why had he kept it so long? once it had given him pleasure to watch it changing and growing old. of late he had felt no such pleasure. it had kept him awake at night. when he had been away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon it. it had brought melancholy across his passions. its mere memory had marred many moments of joy. it had been like conscience to him. yes, it had been conscience. he would destroy it. he looked round and saw the knife that had stabbed basil hallward. he had cleaned it many times, till there was no stain left upon it. it was bright, and glistened. as it had killed the painter, so it would kill the painter's work, and all that that meant. it would kill the past, and when that was dead, he would be free. it would kill this monstrous soul-life, and without its hideous warnings, he would be at peace. he seized the thing, and stabbed the picture with it. there was a cry heard, and a crash. the cry was so horrible in its agony that the frightened servants woke and crept out of their rooms. two gentlemen, who were passing in the square below, stopped and looked up at the great house. they walked on till they met a policeman and brought him back. the man rang the bell several times, but there was no answer. except for a light in one of the top windows, the house was all dark. after a time, he went away and stood in an adjoining portico and watched. "whose house is that, constable?" asked the elder of the two gentlemen. "mr. dorian gray's, sir," answered the policeman. they looked at each other, as they walked away, and sneered. one of them was sir henry ashton's uncle. inside, in the servants' part of the house, the half-clad domestics were talking in low whispers to each other. old mrs. leaf was crying and wringing her hands. francis was as pale as death. after about a quarter of an hour, he got the coachman and one of the footmen and crept upstairs. they knocked, but there was no reply. they called out. everything was still. finally, after vainly trying to force the door, they got on the roof and dropped down on to the balcony. the windows yielded easily--their bolts were old. when they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his exquisite youth and beauty. lying on the floor was a dead man, in evening dress, with a knife in his heart. he was withered, wrinkled, and loathsome of visage. it was not till they had examined the rings that they recognized who it was.

<|EndOfText|>

scene.--_a great terrace in the palace of herod, set above the banqueting-hall. some soldiers are leaning over the balcony. to the right there is a gigantic staircase, to the left, at the back, an old cistern surrounded by a wall of green bronze. moonlight._ the young syrian how beautiful is the princess salomé to-night! the page of herodias look at the moon! how strange the moon seems! she is like a woman rising from a tomb. she is like a dead woman. you would fancy she was looking for dead things. the young syrian she has a strange look. she is like a little princess who wears a yellow veil, and whose feet are of silver. she is like a princess who has little white doves for feet. you would fancy she was dancing. the page of herodias she is like a woman who is dead. she moves very slowly. [_noise in the banqueting-hall._] first soldier what an uproar! who are those wild beasts howling? second soldier the jews. they are always like that. they are disputing about their religion. first soldier why do they dispute about their religion? second soldier i cannot tell. they are always doing it. the pharisees, for instance, say that there are angels, and the sadducees declare that angels do not exist. first soldier i think it is ridiculous to dispute about such things. the young syrian how beautiful is the princess salomé to-night! the page of herodias you are always looking at her. you look at her too much. it is dangerous to look at people in such fashion. something terrible may happen. [illustration: the peacock skirt] the young syrian she is very beautiful to-night. first soldier the tetrarch has a sombre look. second soldier yes; he has a sombre look. first soldier he is looking at something. second soldier he is looking at some one. first soldier at whom is he looking? second soldier i cannot tell. the young syrian how pale the princess is! never have i seen her so pale. she is like the shadow of a white rose in a mirror of silver. the page of herodias you must not look at her. you look too much at her. first soldier herodias has filled the cup of the tetrarch. the cappadocian is that the queen herodias, she who wears a black mitre sewn with pearls, and whose hair is powdered with blue dust? first soldier yes; that is herodias, the tetrarch's wife. second soldier the tetrarch is very fond of wine. he has wine of three sorts. one which is brought from the island of samothrace, and is purple like the cloak of cæsar. the cappadocian i have never seen cæsar. second soldier another that comes from a town called cyprus, and is yellow like gold. the cappadocian i love gold. second soldier and the third is a wine of sicily. that wine is red like blood. the nubian the gods of my country are very fond of blood. twice in the year we sacrifice to them young men and maidens; fifty young men and a hundred maidens. but it seems we never give them quite enough, for they are very harsh to us. the cappadocian in my country there are no gods left. the romans have driven them out. there are some who say that they have hidden themselves in the mountains, but i do not believe it. three nights i have been on the mountains seeking them everywhere. i did not find them. and at last i called them by their names, and they did not come. i think they are dead. first soldier the jews worship a god that you cannot see. the cappadocian i cannot understand that. first soldier in fact, they only believe in things that you cannot see. the cappadocian that seems to me altogether ridiculous. the voice of jokanaan after me shall come another mightier than i. i am not worthy so much as to unloose the latchet of his shoes. when he cometh, the solitary places shall be glad. they shall blossom like the lily. the eyes of the blind shall see the day, and the ears of the deaf shall be opened. the new-born child shall put his hand upon the dragon's lair, he shall lead the lions by their manes. second soldier make him be silent. he is always saying ridiculous things. first soldier no, no. he is a holy man. he is very gentle, too. every day, when i give him to eat he thanks me. the cappadocian who is he? first soldier a prophet. the cappadocian what is his name? first soldier jokanaan. the cappadocian whence comes he? first soldier from the desert, where he fed on locusts and wild honey. he was clothed in camel's hair, and round his loins he had a leathern belt. he was very terrible to look upon. a great multitude used to follow him. he even had disciples. the cappadocian what is he talking of? first soldier we can never tell. sometimes he says terrible things, but it is impossible to understand what he says. the cappadocian may one see him? first soldier no. the tetrarch has forbidden it. the young syrian the princess has hidden her face behind her fan! her little white hands are fluttering like doves that fly to their dove-cots. they are like white butterflies. they are just like white butterflies. the page of herodias what is that to you? why do you look at her? you must not look at her.... something terrible may happen. the cappadocian [_pointing to the cistern._] what a strange prison! second soldier it is an old cistern. the cappadocian an old cistern! it must be very unhealthy. second soldier oh no! for instance, the tetrarch's brother, his elder brother, the first husband of herodias the queen, was imprisoned there for twelve years. it did not kill him. at the end of the twelve years he had to be strangled. the cappadocian strangled? who dared to do that? second soldier [_pointing to the executioner, a huge negro._] that man yonder, naaman. the cappadocian he was not afraid? second soldier oh no! the tetrarch sent him the ring. the cappadocian what ring? [illustration: the black cape] second soldier the death-ring. so he was not afraid. the cappadocian yet it is a terrible thing to strangle a king. first soldier why? kings have but one neck, like other folk. the cappadocian i think it terrible. the young syrian the princess rises! she is leaving the table! she looks very troubled. ah, she is coming this way. yes, she is coming towards us. how pale she is! never have i seen her so pale. the page of herodias do not look at her. i pray you not to look at her. the young syrian she is like a dove that has strayed.... she is like a narcissus trembling in the wind.... she is like a silver flower. [_enter salomé_.] salomé i will not stay. i cannot stay. why does the tetrarch look at me all the while with his mole's eyes under his shaking eyelids? it is strange that the husband of my mother looks at me like that. i know not what it means. in truth, yes, i know it. the young syrian you have just left the feast, princess? salomé how sweet the air is here! i can breathe here! within there are jews from jerusalem who are tearing each other in pieces over their foolish ceremonies, and barbarians who drink and drink, and spill their wine on the pavement, and greeks from smyrna with painted eyes and painted cheeks, and frizzed hair curled in twisted coils, and silent, subtle egyptians, with long nails of jade and russett cloaks, and romans brutal and coarse, with their uncouth jargon. ah! how i loathe the romans! they are rough and common, and they give themselves the airs of noble lords. the young syrian will you be seated, princess? the page of herodias why do you speak to her? why do you look at her? oh! something terrible will happen. salomé how good to see the moon! she is like a little piece of money, you would think she was a little silver flower. the moon is cold and chaste. i am sure she is a virgin, she has a virgin's beauty. yes, she is a virgin. she has never defiled herself. she has never abandoned herself to men, like the other goddesses. the voice of jokanaan the lord hath come. the son of man hath come. the centaurs have hidden themselves in the rivers, and the sirens have left the rivers, and are lying beneath the leaves of the forest. salomé who was that who cried out? second soldier the prophet, princess. salomé ah, the prophet! he of whom the tetrarch is afraid? second soldier we know nothing of that, princess. it was the prophet jokanaan who cried out. the young syrian is it your pleasure that i bid them bring your litter, princess? the night is fair in the garden. salomé he says terrible things about my mother, does he not? second soldier we never understand what he says, princess. salomé yes; he says terrible things about her. [_enter a slave_.] the slave princess, the tetrarch prays you to return to the feast. salomé i will not go back. the young syrian pardon me, princess, but if you do not return some misfortune may happen. salomé is he an old man, this prophet? the young syrian princess, it were better to return. suffer me to lead you in. salomé this prophet ... is he an old man? first soldier no, princess, he is quite a young man. second soldier you cannot be sure. there are those who say he is elias. salomé who is elias? second soldier a very ancient prophet of this country, princess. the slave what answer may i give the tetrarch from the princess? the voice of jokanaan rejoice not thou, land of palestine, because the rod of him who smote thee is broken. for from the seed of the serpent shall come forth a basilisk, and that which is born of it shall devour the birds. salomé what a strange voice! i would speak with him. first soldier i fear it is impossible, princess. the tetrarch does not wish any one to speak with him. he has even forbidden the high priest to speak with him. salomé i desire to speak with him. first soldier it is impossible, princess. salomé i will speak with him. the young syrian would it not be better to return to the banquet? salomé bring forth this prophet. [_exit the slave._] first soldier we dare not, princess. salomé [_approaching the cistern and looking down into it._] how black it is, down there! it must be terrible to be in so black a pit! it is like a tomb.... [_to the soldiers._] did you not hear me? bring out the prophet. i wish to see him. second soldier princess, i beg you do not require this of us. salomé you keep me waiting! first soldier princess, our lives belong to you, but we cannot do what you have asked of us. and indeed, it is not of us that you should ask this thing. salomé [_looking at the young syrian._] ah! the page of herodias oh! what is going to happen? i am sure that some misfortune will happen. salomé [_going up to the young syrian._] you will do this tiling for me, will you not, narraboth? you will do this thing for me. i have always been kind to you. you will do it for me. i would but look at this strange prophet. men have talked so much of him. often have i heard the tetrarch talk of him. i think the tetrarch is afraid of him. are you, even you, also afraid of him, narraboth? the young syrian i fear him not, princess; there is no man i fear. but the tetrarch has formally forbidden that any man should raise the cover of this well. salomé you will do this thing for me, narraboth, and to-morrow when i pass in my litter beneath the gateway of the idol-sellers i will let fall for you a little flower, a little green flower. the young syrian princess, i cannot, i cannot. salomé [_smiling_.] you will do this thing for me, narraboth. you know that you will do this thing for me. and to-morrow when i pass in my litter by the bridge of the idol-buyers, i will look at you through the muslin veils, i will look at you, narraboth, it may be i will smile at you. look at me, narraboth, look at me. ah! you know that you will do what i ask of you. you know it well.... i know that you will do this thing. the young syrian [_signing to the third soldier._] let the prophet come forth.... the princess salomé desires to see him. salomé ah! the page of herodias oh! how strange the moon looks. you would think it was the hand of a dead woman who is seeking to cover herself with a shroud. the young syrian she has a strange look! she is like a little princess, whose eyes are eyes of amber. through the clouds of muslin she is smiling like a little princess. [_the prophet comes out of the cistern. salomé looks at him and steps slowly back._] [illustration: a platonic lament] jokanaan where is he whose cup of abominations is now full? where is he, who in a robe of silver shall one day die in the face of all the people? bid him come forth, that he may hear the voice of him who hath cried in the waste places and in the houses of kings. salomé of whom is he speaking? the young syrian you can never tell, princess. jokanaan where is she who having seen the images of men painted on the walls, the images of the chaldeans limned in colours, gave herself up unto the lust of her eyes, and sent ambassadors into chaldea? salomé it is of my mother that he speaks. the young syrian oh, no, princess. salomé yes; it is of my mother that he speaks. jokanaan where is she who gave herself unto the captains of assyria, who have baldricks on their loins, and tiaras of divers colours on their heads? where is she who hath given herself to the young men of egypt, who are clothed in fine linen and purple, whose shields are of gold, whose helmets are of silver, whose bodies are mighty? bid her rise up from the bed of her abominations, from the bed of her incestuousness, that she may hear the words of him who prepareth the way of the lord, that she may repent her of her iniquities. though she will never repent, but will stick fast in her abominations; bid her come, for the fan of the lord is in his hand. salomé but he is terrible, he is terrible! the young syrian do not stay here, princess, i beseech you. salomé it is his eyes above all that are terrible. they are like black holes burned by torches in a tyrian tapestry. they are like black caverns where dragons dwell. they are like the black caverns of egypt in which the dragons make their lairs. they are like black lakes troubled by fantastic moons.... do you think he will speak again? the young syrian do not stay here, princess. i pray you do not stay here. salomé how wasted he is! he is like a thin ivory statue. he is like an image of silver. i am sure he is chaste as the moon is. he is like a moonbeam, like a shaft of silver. his flesh must be cool like ivory. i would look closer at him. the young syrian no, no, princess. salomé i must look at him closer. the young syrian princess! princess! jokanaan who is this woman who is looking at me? i will not have her look at me. wherefore doth she look at me with her golden eyes, under her gilded eyelids? i know not who she is. i do not wish to know who she is. bid her begone. it is not to her that i would speak. salomé i am salomé, daughter of herodias, princess of judæa. jokanaan back! daughter of babylon! come not near the chosen of the lord. thy mother hath filled the earth with the wine of her iniquities, and the cry of her sins hath come up to the ears of god. salomé speak again, jokanaan. thy voice is wine to me. the young syrian princess! princess! princess! salomé speak again! speak again, jokanaan, and tell me what i must do. jokanaan daughter of sodom, come not near me! but cover thy face with a veil, and scatter ashes upon thine head, and get thee to the desert and seek out the son of man. salomé who is he, the son of man? is he as beautiful as thou art, jokanaan? jokanaan get thee behind me! i hear in the palace the beating of the wings of the angel of death. the young syrian princess, i beseech thee to go within. jokanaan angel of the lord god, what dost thou here with thy sword? whom seekest thou in this foul palace? the day of him who shall die in a robe of silver has not yet come. [illustration: john and salomé] salomé jokanaan! jokanaan who speaketh? salomé jokanaan, i am amorous of thy body! thy body is white like the lilies of a field that the mower hath never mowed. thy body is white like the snows that lie on the mountains, like the snows that lie on the mountains of judæa, and come down into the valleys. the roses in the garden of the queen of arabia are not so white as thy body. neither the roses in the garden of the queen of arabia, the perfumed garden of spices of the queen of arabia, nor the feet of the dawn when they light on the leaves, nor the breast of the moon when she lies on the breast of the sea.... there is nothing in the world so white as thy body. let me touch thy body. jokanaan back! daughter of babylon! by woman came evil into the world. speak not to me. i will not listen to thee. i listen but to the voice of the lord god. salomé thy body is hideous. it is like the body of a leper. it is like a plastered wall where vipers have crawled; like a plastered wall where the scorpions have made their nest. it is like a whitened sepulchre full of loathsome things. it is horrible, thy body is horrible. it is of thy hair that i am enamoured, jokanaan. thy hair is like clusters of grapes, like the clusters of black grapes that hang from the vine-trees of edom in the land of the edomites. thy hair is like the cedars of lebanon, like the great cedars of lebanon that give their shade to the lions and to the robbers who would hide themselves by day. the long black nights, when the moon hides her face, when the stars are afraid, are not so black. the silence that dwells in the forest is not so black. there is nothing in the world so black as thy hair.... let me touch thy hair. jokanaan back, daughter of sodom! touch me not. profane not the temple of the lord god. salomé thy hair is horrible. it is covered with mire and dust. it is like a crown of thorns which they have placed on thy forehead. it is like a knot of black serpents writhing round thy neck. i love not thy hair.... it is thy mouth that i desire, jokanaan. thy mouth is like a band of scarlet on a tower of ivory. it is like a pomegranate cut with a knife of ivory. the pomegranate-flowers that blossom in the gardens of tyre, and are redder than roses, are not so red. the red blasts of trumpets that herald the approach of kings, and make afraid the enemy, are not so red. thy mouth is redder than the feet of those who tread the wine in the wine-press. thy mouth is redder than the feet of the doves who haunt the temples and are fed by the priests. it is redder than the feet of him who cometh from a forest where he hath slain a lion, and seen gilded tigers. thy mouth is like a branch of coral that fishers have found in the twilight of the sea, the coral that they keep for the kings!... it is like the vermilion that the moabites find in the mines of moab, the vermilion that the kings take from them. it is like the bow of the king of the persians, that is painted with vermilion, and is tipped with coral. there is nothing in the world so red as thy mouth.... let me kiss thy mouth. jokanaan never! daughter of babylon! daughter of sodom! never. salomé i will kiss thy mouth, jokanaan. i will kiss thy mouth. the young syrian princess, princess, thou who art like a garden of myrrh, thou who art the dove of all doves, look not at this man, look not at him! do not speak such words to him. i cannot suffer them.... princess, princess, do not speak these things. salomé i will kiss thy mouth, jokanaan. the young syrian ah! [_he kills himself and falls between salomé and jokanaan._] the page of herodias the young syrian has slain himself! the young captain has slain himself! he has slain himself who was my friend! i gave him a little box of perfumes and ear-rings wrought in silver, and now he has killed himself! ah, did he not foretell that some misfortune would happen? i, too, foretold it, and it has happened. well i knew that the moon was seeking a dead thing, but i knew not that it was he whom she sought. ah! why did i not hide him from the moon? if i had hidden him in a cavern she would not have seen him. first soldier princess, the young captain has just killed himself. salomé let me kiss thy mouth, jokanaan. jokanaan art thou not afraid, daughter of herodias? did i not tell thee that i had heard in the palace the beatings of the wings of the angel of death, and hath he not come, the angel of death? [illustration: enter herodias] salomé let me kiss thy mouth. jokanaan daughter of adultery, there is but one who can save thee, it is he of whom i spake. go seek him. he is in a boat on the sea of galilee, and he talketh with his disciples. kneel down on the shore of the sea, and call unto him by his name. when he cometh to thee (and to all who call on him he cometh), bow thyself at his feet and ask of him the remission of thy sins. salomé let me kiss thy mouth. jokanaan cursed be thou! daughter of an incestuous mother, be thou accursed! salomé i will kiss thy mouth, jokanaan. jokanaan i do no wish to look at thee. i will not look at thee, thou art accursed, salomé, thou art accursed. [_he goes down into the cistern._] salomé i will kiss thy mouth, jokanaan; i will kiss thy mouth. first soldier we must bear away the body to another place. the tetrarch does not care to see dead bodies, save the bodies of those whom he himself has slain. the page of herodias he was my brother, and nearer to me than a brother. i gave him a little box full of perfumes, and a ring of agate that he wore always on his hand. in the evening we used to walk by the river, among the almond trees, and he would tell me of the things of his country. he spake ever very low. the sound of his voice was like the sound of the flute, of a flute player. also he much loved to gaze at himself in the river. i used to reproach him for that. second soldier you are right; we must hide the body. the tetrarch must not see it. first soldier the tetrarch will not come to this place. he never comes on the terrace. he is too much afraid of the prophet. [_enter herod, herodias, and all the court._] herod where is salomé? where is the princess? why did she not return to the banquet as i commanded her? ah! there she is! herodias you must not look at her! you are always looking at her! herod the moon has a strange look to-night. has she not a strange look? she is like a mad woman, a mad woman who is seeking everywhere for lovers. she is naked too. she is quite naked. the clouds are seeking to clothe her nakedness, but she will not let them. she shows herself naked in the sky. she reels through the clouds like a drunken woman.... i am sure she is looking for lovers. does she not reel like a drunken woman? she is like a mad woman, is she not? herodias no; the moon is like the moon, that is all. let us go within.... you have nothing to do here. herod i will stay here! manesseh, lay carpets there. light torches, bring forth the ivory tables, and the tables of jasper. the air here is delicious. i will drink more wine with my guests. we must show all honours to the ambassadors of cæsar. herodias it is not because of them that you remain. herod yes; the air is delicious. come, herodias, our guests await us. ah! i have slipped! i have slipped in blood! it is an ill omen. it is a very evil omen. wherefore is there blood here?... and this body, what does this body here? think you i am like the king of egypt, who gives no feast to his guests but that he shows them a corpse? whose is it? i will not look on it. first soldier it is our captain, sire. he is the young syrian whom you made captain only three days ago. herod i gave no order that he should be slain. second soldier he killed himself, sire. herod for what reason? i had made him captain. second soldier we do not know, sire. but he killed himself. herod that seems strange to me. i thought it was only the roman philosophers who killed themselves. is it not true, tigellinus, that the philosophers at rome kill themselves? tigellinus there are some who kill themselves, sire. they are the stoics. the stoics are coarse people. they are ridiculous people. i myself regard them as being perfectly ridiculous. herod i also. it is ridiculous to kill oneself. tigellinus everybody at rome laughs at them. the emperor has written a satire against them. it is recited everywhere. herod ah! he has written a satire against them? cæsar is wonderful. he can do everything.... it is strange that the young syrian has killed himself. i am sorry he has killed himself. i am very sorry; for he was fair to look upon. he was even very fair. he had very languorous eyes. i remember that i saw that he looked languorously at salomé. truly, i thought he looked too much at her. herodias there are others who look at her too much. herod his father was a king. i drove him from his kingdom. and you made a slave of his mother, who was a queen, herodias. so he was here as my guest, as it were, and for that reason i made him my captain. i am sorry he is dead. ho! why have you left the body here? i will not look at it--away with it! [_they take away the body._] it is cold here. there is a wind blowing. is there not a wind blowing? herodias no; there is no wind. herod i tell you there is a wind that blows.... and i hear in the air something that is like the beating of wings, like the beating of vast wings. do you not hear it? herodias i hear nothing. herod i hear it no longer. but i heard it. it was the blowing of the wind, no doubt. it has passed away. but no, i hear it again. do you not hear it? it is just like the beating of wings. herodias i tell you there is nothing. you are ill. let us go within. herod i am not ill. it is your daughter who is sick. she has the mien of a sick person. never have i seen her so pale. herodias i have told you not to look at her. herod pour me forth wine [_wine is brought_]. salomé, come drink a little wine with me. i have here a wine that is exquisite. cæsar himself sent it me. dip into it thy little red lips, that i may drain the cup. salomé i am not thirsty, tetrarch. herod you hear how she answers me, this daughter of yours? herodias she does right. why are you always gazing at her? herod bring me ripe fruits [_fruits are brought_]. salomé, come and eat fruit with me. i love to see in a fruit the mark of thy little teeth. bite but a little of this fruit and then i will eat what is left. salomé i am not hungry, tetrarch. herod [_to herodias._] you see how you have brought up this daughter of yours. herodias my daughter and i come of a royal race. as for thee, thy father was a camel driver! he was also a robber! herod thou liest! herodias thou knowest well that it is true. herod salomé, come and sit next to me. i will give thee the throne of thy mother. salomé i am not tired, tetrarch. herodias you see what she thinks of you. herod bring me--what is it that i desire? i forget. ah! ah! i remember. [illustration: the eyes of herod] the voice of jokanaan lo! the time is come! that which i foretold has come to pass, saith the lord god. lo! the day of which i spoke. herodias bid him be silent. i will not listen to his voice. this man is for ever vomiting insults against me. herod he has said nothing against you. besides, he is a very great prophet. herodias i do not believe in prophets. can a man tell what will come to pass? no man knows it. moreover, he is for ever insulting me. but i think you are afraid of him.... i know well that you are afraid of him. herod i am not afraid of him. i am afraid of no man. herodias i tell you, you are afraid of him. if you are not afraid of him why do you not deliver him to the jews, who for these six months past have been clamouring for him? a jew truly, my lord, it were better to deliver him into our hands. herod enough on this subject. i have already given you my answer. i will not deliver him into your hands. he is a holy man. he is a man who has seen god. a jew that cannot be. there is no man who hath seen god since the prophet elias. he is the last man who saw god. in these days god doth not show himself. he hideth himself. therefore great evils have come upon the land. another jew verily, no man knoweth if elias the prophet did indeed see god. peradventure it was but the shadow of god that he saw. a third jew god is at no time hidden. he showeth himself at all times and in everything. god is in what is evil even as he is in what is good. a fourth jew that must not be said. it is a very dangerous doctrine. it is a doctrine that cometh from the schools at alexandria, where men teach the philosophy of the greeks. and the greeks are gentiles: they are not even circumcised. a fifth jew no one can tell how god worketh. his ways are very mysterious. it may be that the things which we call evil are good, and that the things which we call good are evil. there is no knowledge of any thing. we must needs submit to everything, for god is very strong. he breaketh in pieces the strong together with the weak, for he regardeth not any man. first jew thou speaketh truly. god is terrible; he breaketh the strong and the weak as a man brays corn in a mortar. but this man hath never seen god. no man hath seen god since the prophet elias. herodias make them be silent. they weary me. herod but i have heard it said that jokanaan himself is your prophet elias. the jew that cannot be. it is more than three hundred years since the days of the prophet elias. herod there be some who say that this man is the prophet elias.. a nazarene i am sure that he is the prophet elias. the jew nay, but he is not the prophet elias. the voice of jokanaan so the day is come, the day of the lord, and i hear upon the mountains the feet of him who shall be the saviour of the world. herod what does that mean? the saviour of the world. tigellinus it is a title that cæsar takes. herod but cæsar is not coming into judæa. only yesterday i received letters from rome. they contained nothing concerning this matter. and you, tigellinus, who were at rome during the winter, you heard nothing concerning this matter, did you? tigellinus sire, i heard nothing concerning the matter. i was explaining the title. it is one of cæsar's titles. herod but cæsar cannot come. he is too gouty. they say that his feet are like the feet of an elephant. also there are reasons of state. he who leaves rome loses rome. he will not come. howbeit, cæsar is lord, he will come if he wishes. nevertheless, i do not think he will come. first nazarene it was not concerning cæsar that the prophet spake these words, sire. herod not of cæsar? first nazarene no, sire. herod concerning whom then did he speak? first nazarene concerning messias who has come. a jew messiah hath not come. first nazarene he hath come, and everywhere he worketh miracles. herodias ho! ho! miracles! i do not believe in miracles. i have seen too many. [_to the page._] my fan! first nazarene this man worketh true miracles. thus, at a marriage which took place in a little town of galilee, a town of some importance, he changed water into wine. certain persons who were present related it to me. also he healed two lepers that were seated before the gate of capernaum simply by touching them. second nazarene nay, it was blind men that he healed at capernaum. first nazarene nay; they were lepers. but he hath healed blind people also, and he was seen on a mountain talking with angels. a sadducee angels do not exist. a pharisee angels exist, but i do not believe that this man has talked with them. first nazarene he was seen by a great multitude of people talking with angels. a sadducee not with angels. herodias how these men weary me! they are ridiculous! [_to the page._] well! my fan! [_the page gives her the fan._] you have a dreamer's look; you must not dream. it is only sick people who dream. [_she strikes the page with her fan._] second nazarene there is also the miracle of the daughter of jairus. first nazarene yes, that is sure. no man can gainsay it. herodias these men are mad. they have looked too long on the moon. command them to be silent. herod what is this miracle of the daughter of jairus? first nazarene the daughter of jairus was dead. he raised her from the dead. herod he raises the dead? first nazarene yea, sire, he raiseth the dead. herod i do not wish him to do that. i forbid him to do that. i allow no man to raise the dead. this man must be found and told that i forbid him to raise the dead. where is this man at present? second nazarene he is in every place, my lord, but it is hard to find him. first nazarene it is said that he is now in samaria. a jew it is easy to see that this is not messias, if he is in samaria. it is not to the samaritans that messias shall come. the samaritans are accursed. they bring no offerings to the temple. second nazarene he left samaria a few days since. i think that at the present moment he is in the neighbourhood of jerusalem. first nazarene no; he is not there. i have just come from jerusalem. for two months they have had no tidings of him. herod no matter! but let them find him, and tell him from me, i will not allow him to raise the dead! to change water into wine, to heal the lepers and the blind.... he may do these things if he will. i say nothing against these things. in truth i hold it a good deed to heal a leper. but i allow no man to raise the dead. it would be terrible if the dead came back. [illustration: the stomach dance] the voice of jokanaan ah! the wanton! the harlot! ah! the daughter of babylon with her golden eyes and her gilded eyelids!--thus saith the lord god, let there come up against her a multitude of men. let the people take stones and stone her.... herodias command him to be silent. the voice of jokanaan let the war captains pierce her with their swords, let them crush her beneath their shields. herodias nay, but it is infamous. the voice of jokanaan it is thus that i will wipe out all wickedness from the earth, and that all women shall learn not to imitate her abominations. herodias you hear what he says against me? you allow him to revile your wife? herod he did not speak your name. herodias what does that matter? you know well that it is i whom he seeks to revile. and i am your wife, am i not? herod of a truth, dear and noble herodias, you are my wife, and before that you were the wife of my brother. herodias it was you who tore me from his arms. herod of a truth i was stronger.... but let us not talk of that matter. i do not desire to talk of it. it is the cause of the terrible words that the prophet has spoken. peradventure on account of it a misfortune will come. let us not speak of this matter. noble herodias, we are not mindful of our guests. fill thou my cup, my well-beloved. fill with wine the great goblets of silver, and the great goblets of glass. i will drink to cæsar. there are romans here, we must drink to cæsar. all cæsar! cæsar! herod do you not see your daughter, how pale she is? herodias what is it to you if she be pale or not? herod never have i seen her so pale. herodias you must not look at her. the voice of jokanaan in that day the sun shall become black like sackcloth of hair, and the moon shall become like blood, and the stars of the heavens shall fall upon the earth like ripe figs that fall from the fig-tree, and the kings of the earth shall be afraid. herodias ah! ah! i should like to see that day of which he speaks, when the moon shall become like blood, and when the stars shall fall upon the earth like ripe figs. this prophet talks like a drunken man ... but i cannot suffer the sound of his voice. i hate his voice. command him to be silent. herod i will not. i cannot understand what it is that he saith, but it may be an omen. herodias i do not believe in omens. he speaks like a drunken man. herod it may be he is drunk with the wine of god. herodias what wine is that, the wine of god? from what vineyards is it gathered? in what wine-press may one find it? herod [_from this point he looks all the while at salomé._] tigellinus, when you were at rome of late, did the emperor speak with you: on the subject of...? tigellinus on what subject, sire? herod on what subject? ah! i asked you a question, did i not? i have forgotten what i would have asked you. herodias you are looking again at my daughter. you must not look at her. i have already said so. herod you say nothing else. herodias i say it again. herod and that restoration of the temple about which they have talked so much, will anything be done? they say the veil of the sanctuary has disappeared, do they not? herodias it was thyself didst steal it. thou speakest at random. i will not stay here. let us go within. herod dance for me, salomé. herodias i will not have her dance. salomé i have no desire to dance, tetrarch. herod salomé, daughter of herodias, dance for me. herodias let her alone. herod i command thee to dance, salomé. salomé i will not dance, tetrarch. herodias [_laughing_]. you see how she obeys you. herod what is it to me whether she dance or not? it is naught to me. to-night i am happy, i am exceeding happy. never have i been so happy. first soldier the tetrarch has a sombre look. has he not a sombre look? second soldier yes, he has a sombre look. herod wherefore should i not be happy? cæsar, who is lord of the world, who is lord of all things, loves me well. he has just sent me most precious gifts. also he has promised me to summon to rome the king of cappadocia, who is my enemy. it may be that at rome he will crucify him, for he is able to do all things that he wishes. verily, cæsar is lord. thus you see i have a right to be happy. indeed, i am happy. i have never been so happy. there is nothing in the world that can mar my happiness. the voice of jokanaan he shall be seated on this throne. he shall be clothed in scarlet and purple. in his hand he shall bear a golden cup full of his blasphemies. and the angel of the lord shall smite him. he shall be eaten of worms. herodias you hear what he says about you. he says that you will be eaten of worms. herod it is not of me that he speaks. he speaks never against me. it is of the king of cappadocia that he speaks; the king of cappadocia, who is mine enemy. it is he who shall be eaten of worms. it is not i. never has he spoken word against me, this prophet, save that i sinned in taking to wife the wife of my brother. it may be he is right. for, of a truth, you are sterile. herodias i am sterile, i? you say that, you that are ever looking at my daughter, you that would have her dance for your pleasure? it is absurd to say that. i have borne a child. you have gotten no child, no, not even from one of your slaves. it is you who are sterile, not i. herod peace, woman! i say that you are sterile. you have borne me no child, and the prophet says that our marriage is not a true marriage. he says that it is an incestuous marriage, a marriage that will bring evils.... i fear he is right; i am sure that he is right. but it is not the moment to speak of such things. i would be happy at this moment. of a truth, i am happy. there is nothing i lack. herodias i am glad you are of so fair a humour to-night. it is not your custom. but it is late. let us go within. do not forget that we hunt at sunrise. all honours must be shown to cæsar's ambassadors, must they not? second soldier what a sombre look the tetrarch wears. first soldier yes, he wears a sombre look. herod salomé, salomé, dance for me. i pray thee dance for me. i am sad to-night. yes; i am passing sad to-night. when i came hither i slipped in blood, which is an evil omen; and i heard, i am sure i heard in the air a beating of wings, a beating of giant wings. i cannot tell what they mean ... i am sad to-night. therefore dance for me. dance for me, salomé, i beseech you. if you dance for me you may ask of me what you will, and i will give it you, even unto the half of my kingdom. [illustration: the toilette of salomé--i] salomé [_rising._] will you indeed give me whatsoever i shall ask, tetrarch? herodias do not dance, my daughter. herod everything, even the half of my kingdom. salomé you swear it, tetrarch? herod i swear it, salomé. herodias do not dance, my daughter. salomé by what will you swear, tetrarch? herod by my life, by my crown, by my gods. whatsoever you desire i will give it you, even to the half of my kingdom, if you will but dance for me. o, salomé, salomé, dance for me! salomé you have sworn, tetrarch. herod i have sworn, salomé. salomé all this i ask, even the half of your kingdom. herodias my daughter, do not dance. herod even to the half of my kingdom. thou wilt be passing fair as a queen, salomé, if it please thee to ask for the half of my kingdom. will she not be fair as a queen? ah! it is cold here! there is an icy wind, and i hear ... wherefore do i hear in the air this beating of wings? ah! one might fancy a bird, a huge black bird that hovers over the terrace. why can i not see it, this bird? the beat of its wings is terrible. the breath of the wind of its wings is terrible. it is a chill wind. nay, but it is not cold, it is hot. i am choking. pour water on my hands. give me snow to eat. loosen my mantle. quick! quick! loosen my mantle. nay, but leave it. it is my garland that hurts me, my garland of roses. the flowers are like fire. they have burned my forehead. [_he tears the wreath from his head and throws it on the table._] ah! i can breathe now. how red those petals are! they are like stains of blood on the cloth. that does not matter. you must not find symbols in everything you see. it makes life impossible. it were better to say that stains of blood are as lovely as rose petals. it were better far to say that.... but we will not speak of this. now i am happy, i am passing happy. have i not the right to be happy? your daughter is going to dance for me. will you not dance for me, salomé? you have promised to dance for me. [illustration: the toilette of salomé--ii] herodias i will not have her dance. salomé i will dance for you, tetrarch. herod you hear what your daughter says. she is going to dance for me. you do well to dance for me, salomé. and when you have danced for me, forget not to ask of me whatsoever you wish. whatsoever you wish i will give it you, even to the half of my kingdom. i have sworn it, have i not? salomé you have sworn it, tetrarch. herod and i have never broken my word. i am not of those who break their oaths. i know not how to lie. i am the slave of my word, and my word is the word of a king. the king of cappadocia always lies, but he is no true king. he is a coward. also he owes me money that he will not repay. he has even insulted my ambassadors. he has spoken words that were wounding. but cæsar will crucify him when he comes to rome. i am sure that cæsar will crucify him. and if not, yet will he die, being eaten of worms. the prophet has prophesied it. well! wherefore dost thou tarry, salomé? salomé i am awaiting until my slaves bring perfumes to me and the seven veils, and take off my sandals. [_slaves bring perfumes and the seven veils, and take off the sandals of salomé._] herod ah, you are going to dance with naked feet. 'tis well!--'tis well. your little feet will be like white doves. they will be like little white flowers that dance upon the trees.... no, no, she is going to dance on blood. there is blood spilt on the ground. she must not dance on blood. it were an evil omen. herodias what is it to you if she dance on blood? thou hast waded deep enough therein.... herod what is it to me? ah! look at the moon! she has become red. she has become red as blood. ah! the prophet prophesied truly. he prophesied that the moon would become red as blood. did he not prophesy it? all of you heard him. and now the moon has become red as blood. do ye not see it? herodias oh, yes, i see it well, and the stars are falling like ripe figs, are they not? and the sun is becoming black like sackcloth of hair, and the kings of the earth are afraid. that at least one can see. the prophet, for once in his life, was right, the kings of the earth are afraid.... let us go within. you are sick. they will say at rome that you are mad. let us go within, i tell you. the voice of jokanaan who is this who cometh from edom, who is this who cometh from bozra, whose raiment is dyed with purple, who shineth in the beauty of his garments, who walketh mighty in his greatness? wherefore is thy raiment stained with scarlet? herodias let us go within. the voice of that man maddens me. i will not have my daughter dance while he is continually crying out. i will not have her dance while you look at her in this fashion. in a word, i will not have her dance. herod do not rise, my wife, my queen, it will avail thee nothing. i will not go within till she hath danced. dance, salomé, dance for me. herodias do not dance, my daughter. salomé i am ready, tetrarch. [_salomé dances the dance of the seven veils._] herod ah! wonderful! wonderful! you see that she has danced for me, your daughter. come near, salomé, come near, that i may give you your reward. ah! i pay the dancers well. i will pay thee royally. i will give thee whatsoever thy soul desireth. what wouldst thou have? speak. salomé [_kneeling_]. i would that they presently bring me in a silver charger.... herod [laughing.] in a silver charger? surely yes, in a silver charger. she is charming, is she not? what is it you would have in a silver charger, o sweet and fair salomé, you who are fairer than all the daughters of judæa? what would you have them bring thee in a silver charger? tell me. whatsoever it may be, they shall give it you. my treasures belong to thee. what is it, salomé? salomé [_rising_]. the head of jokanaan. herodias ah! that is well said, my daughter. herod no, no! herodias that is well said, my daughter. herod no, no, salomé. you do not ask me that. do not listen to your mother's voice. she is ever giving you evil counsel. do not heed her. salomé i do not heed my mother. it is for mine own pleasure that i ask the head of jokanaan in a silver charger. you hath sworn, herod. forget not that you have sworn an oath. herod i know it. i have sworn by my gods. i know it well. but i pray you, salomé, ask of me something else. ask of me the half of my kingdom, and i will give it you. but ask not of me what you have asked. salomé i ask of you the head of jokanaan. herod no, no, i do not wish it. salomé you have sworn, herod. herodias yes, you have sworn. everybody heard you. you swore it before everybody. herod be silent! it is not to you i speak. herodias my daughter has done well to ask the head of jokanaan. he has covered me with insults. he has said monstrous things against me. one can see that she loves her mother well. do not yield, my daughter. he has sworn, he has sworn. herod be silent, speak not to me!... come, salomé, be reasonable. i have never been hard to you. i have ever loved you.... it may be that i have loved you too much. therefore ask not this thing of me. this is a terrible thing, an awful thing to ask of me. surely, i think thou art jesting. the head of a man that is cut from his body is ill to look upon, is it not? it is not meet that the eyes of a virgin should look upon such a thing. what pleasure could you have in it? none. no, no, it is not what you desire. hearken to me. i have an emerald, a great round emerald, which cæsar's minion sent me. if you look through this emerald you can see things which happen at a great distance. cæsar himself carries such an emerald when he goes to the circus. but my emerald is larger. i know well that it is larger. it is the largest emerald in the whole world. you would like that, would you not? ask it of me and i will give it you. [illustration: the dancer's reward] salomé i demand the head of jokanaan. herod you are not listening. you are not listening. suffer me to speak, salomé. salomé the head of jokanaan. herod no, no, you would not have that. you say that to trouble me, because i have looked at you all this evening. it is true, i have looked at you all this evening. your beauty troubled me. your beauty has grievously troubled me, and i have looked at you too much. but i will look at you no more. neither at things, nor at people should one look. only in mirrors should one look, for mirrors do but show us masks. oh! oh! bring wine! i thirst.... salomé, salomé, let us be friends. come now!... ah! what would i say? what was't? ah! i remember!... salomé--nay, but come nearer to me; i fear you will not hear me--salomé, you know my white peacocks, my beautiful white peacocks, that walk in the garden between the myrtles and the tall cypress trees. their beaks are gilded with gold, and the grains that they eat are gilded with gold also, and their feet are stained with purple. when they cry out the rain comes, and the moon shows herself in the heavens when they spread their tails. two by two they walk between the cypress trees and the black myrtles, and each has a slave to tend it. sometimes they fly across the trees, and anon they crouch in the grass, and round the lake. there are not in all the world birds so wonderful. there is no king in all the world who possesses such wonderful birds. i am sure that cæsar himself has no birds so fair as my birds. i will give you fifty of my peacocks. they will follow you whithersoever you go, and in the midst of them you will be like the moon in the midst of a great white cloud.... i will give them all to you. i have but a hundred, and in the whole world there is no king who has peacocks like unto my peacocks. but i will give them all to you. only you must loose me from my oath, and must not ask of me that which you have asked of me. [_he empties the cup of wine._] salomé give me the head of jokanaan. herodias well said, my daughter! as for you, you are ridiculous with your peacocks. herod be silent! you cry out always; you cry out like a beast of prey. you must not. your voice wearies me. be silent, i say salomé, think of what you are doing. this man comes perchance from god. he is a holy man. the finger of god has touched him. god has put into his mouth terrible words. in the palace as in the desert god is always with him.... at least it is possible. one does not know. it is possible that god is for him and with him. furthermore, if he died some misfortune might happen to me. in any case, he said that the day he dies a misfortune will happen to some one. that could only be to me. remember, i slipped in blood when i entered. also, i heard a beating of wings in the air, a beating of mighty wings. these are very evil omens, and there were others. i am sure there were others though i did not see them. well, salomé, you do not wish a misfortune to happen to me? you do not wish that. listen to me, then. salomé give me the head of jokanaan. herod ah! you are not listening to me. be calm. i--i am calm. i am quite calm. listen. i have jewels hidden in this place--jewels that your mother even has never seen; jewels that are marvellous. i have a collar of pearls, set in four rows. they are like unto moons chained with rays of silver. they are like fifty moons caught in a golden net. on the ivory of her breast a queen has worn it. thou shalt be as fair as a queen when thou wearest it. i have amethysts of two kinds, one that is black like wine, and one that is red like wine which has been coloured with water. i have topazes, yellow as are the eyes of tigers, and topazes that are pink as the eyes of a wood-pigeon, and green topazes that are as the eyes of cats. i have opals that burn always, with an icelike flame, opals that make sad men's minds, and are fearful of the shadows. i have onyxes like the eyeballs of a dead woman. i have moonstones that change when the moon changes, and are wan when they see the sun. i have sapphires big like eggs, and as blue as blue flowers. the sea wanders within them and the moon comes never to trouble the blue of their waves. i have chrysolites and beryls and chrysoprases and rubies. i have sardonyx and hyacinth stones, and stones of chalcedony, and i will give them all to you, all, and other things will i add to them. the king of the indies has but even now sent me four fans fashioned from the feathers of parrots, and the king of numidia a garment of ostrich feathers. i have a crystal, into which it is not lawful for a woman to look, nor may young men behold it until they have been beaten with rods. in a coffer of nacre i have three wondrous turquoises. he who wears them on his forehead can imagine things which are not, and he who carries them in his hand can make women sterile. these are great treasures above all price. they are treasures without price. but this is not all. in an ebony coffer i have two cups of amber, that are like apples of gold. if an enemy pour poison into these cups, they become like an apple of silver. in a coffer incrusted with amber i have sandals incrusted with glass. i have mantles that have been brought from the land of the seres, and bracelets decked about with carbuncles and with jade that come from the city of euphrates.... what desirest thou more than this, salomé? tell me the thing that thou desirest, and i will give it thee. all that thou askest i will give thee, save one thing. i will give thee all that is mine, save one life. i will give thee the mantle of the high priest. i will give thee the veil of the sanctuary. the jews oh! oh! salomé give me the head of jokanaan. herod [_sinking back in his seat_]. let her be given what she asks! of a truth she is her mother's child! [_the first soldier approaches. herodias draws from the hand of the tetrarch the ring of death and gives it to the soldier, who straightway bears it to the executioner. the executioner looks scared._] who has taken my ring? there was a ring on my right hand. who has drunk my wine? there was wine in my cup. it was full of wine. someone has drunk it! oh! surely some evil will befall some one. [_the executioner goes down into the cistern._] ah! wherefore did i give my oath? kings ought never to pledge their word. if they keep it not, it is terrible, and if they keep it, it is terrible also. herodias my daughter has done well. herod i am sure that some misfortune will happen. salomé [_she leans over the cistern and listens._] there is no sound. i hear nothing. why does he not cry out, this man? ah! if any man sought to kill me, i would cry out, i would struggle, i would not suffer.... strike, strike, naaman, strike, i tell you.... no, i hear nothing. there is a silence, a terrible silence. ah! something has fallen upon the ground. i heard something fall. it is the sword of the headsman. he is afraid, this slave. he has let his sword fall. he dare not kill him. he is a coward, this slave! let soldiers be sent. [_she sees the page of herodias and addresses him._] come hither, thou wert the friend of him who is dead, is it not so? well, i tell thee, there are not dead men enough. go to the soldiers and bid them go down and bring me the thing i ask, the thing the tetrarch has promised me, the thing that is mine. [_the page recoils. she turns to the soldiers._] hither, ye soldiers. get ye down into this cistern and bring me the head of this man. [_the soldiers recoil._] tetrarch, tetrarch, command your soldiers that they bring me the head of jokanaan. [_a huge black arm, the arm of the executioner, comes forth from the cistern, bearing on a silver shield the head of jokanaan. salomé seizes it. herod hides his face with his cloak. herodias smiles and fans herself. the nazarenes fall on their knees and begin to pray._] ah! thou wouldst not suffer me to kiss thy mouth, jokanaan. well! i will kiss it now. i will bite it with my teeth as one bites a ripe fruit. yes, i will kiss thy mouth, jokanaan. i said it; did i not say it? i said it. ah! i will kiss it now.... but, wherefore dost thou not look at me, jokanaan? thine eyes that were so terrible, so full of rage and scorn, are shut now. wherefore are they shut? open thine eyes! lift up thine eyelids, jokanaan! wherefore dost thou not look at me? art thou afraid of me, jokanaan, that thou wilt not look at me?... and thy tongue, that was like a red snake darting poison, it moves no more, it says nothing now, jokanaan, that scarlet viper that spat its venom upon me. it is strange, is it not? how is it that the red viper stirs no longer?... thou wouldst have none of me, jokanaan. thou didst reject me. thou didst speak evil words against me. thou didst treat me as a harlot, as a wanton, me, salomé, daughter of herodias, princess of judæa! well, jokanaan, i still live, but thou, thou art dead, and thy head belongs to me. i can do with it what i will. i can throw it to the dogs and to the birds of the air. that which the dogs leave, the birds of the air shall devour.... ah, jokanaan, jokanaan, thou wert the only man that i have loved. all other men are hateful to me. but thou, thou wert beautiful! thy body was a column of ivory set on a silver socket. it was a garden full of doves and of silver lilies. it was a tower of silver decked with shields of ivory. there was nothing in the world so white as thy body. there was nothing in the world so black as thy hair. in the whole world there was nothing so red as thy mouth. thy voice was a censer that scattered strange perfumes, and when i looked on thee i heard a strange music. ah! wherefore didst thou not look at me, jokanaan? behind thine hands and thy curses thou didst hide thy face. thou didst put upon thine eyes the covering of him who would see his god. well, thou hast seen thy god, jokanaan, but me, me, thou didst never see. if thou hadst seen me thou wouldst have loved me. i, i saw thee, jokanaan, and i loved thee. oh, how i loved thee! i love thee yet, jokanaan, i love thee only.... i am athirst for thy beauty; i am hungry for thy body; and neither wine nor fruits can appease my desire. what shall i do now, jokanaan? neither the floods nor the great waters can quench my passion. i was a princess, and thou didst scorn me. i was a virgin, and thou didst take my virginity from me. i was chaste, and thou didst fill my veins with fire.... ah! ah! wherefore didst thou not look at me, jokanaan? if thou hadst looked at me thou hadst loved me. well i know that thou wouldst have loved me, and the mystery of love is greater than the mystery of death. love only should one consider. [illustration: the climax] herod she is monstrous, thy daughter, she is altogether monstrous. in truth, what she has done is a great crime. i am sure that it was a crime against an unknown god. herodias i approve of what my daughter has done. and i will stay here now. herod [_rising_]. ah! there speaks the incestuous wife! come! i will not stay here. come, i tell thee. surely some terrible thing will befall. manasseh, issachar, ozias, put out the torches. i will not look at things, i will not suffer things to look at me. put out the torches! hide the moon! hide the stars! let us hide ourselves in our palace, herodias. i begin to be afraid. [_the slaves put out the torches. the stars disappear. a great black cloud crosses the moon and conceals it completely. the stage becomes very dark. the tetrarch begins to climb the staircase._] the voice of salomé ah! i have kissed thy mouth, jokanaan, i have kissed thy mouth. there was a bitter taste on thy lips. was it the taste of blood?... but perchance it is the taste of love.... they say that love hath a bitter taste.... but what of that? what of that? i have kissed thy mouth, jokanaan. [_a moonbeam falls on salomé covering her with light._] herod [_turning round and seeing salomé_.] kill that woman! [_the soldiers rush forward and crush beneath their shields salomé, daughter of herodias, princess of judæa._] curtain. [illustration: cul de lampe]

<|EndOfText|>

first act scene morning-room in algernon's flat in half-moon street. the room is luxuriously and artistically furnished. the sound of a piano is heard in the adjoining room. [lane is arranging afternoon tea on the table, and after the music has ceased, algernon enters.] algernon. did you hear what i was playing, lane? lane. i didn't think it polite to listen, sir. algernon. i'm sorry for that, for your sake. i don't play accurately--any one can play accurately--but i play with wonderful expression. as far as the piano is concerned, sentiment is my forte. i keep science for life. lane. yes, sir. algernon. and, speaking of the science of life, have you got the cucumber sandwiches cut for lady bracknell? lane. yes, sir. [hands them on a salver.] algernon. [inspects them, takes two, and sits down on the sofa.] oh! . . . by the way, lane, i see from your book that on thursday night, when lord shoreman and mr. worthing were dining with me, eight bottles of champagne are entered as having been consumed. lane. yes, sir; eight bottles and a pint. algernon. why is it that at a bachelor's establishment the servants invariably drink the champagne? i ask merely for information. lane. i attribute it to the superior quality of the wine, sir. i have often observed that in married households the champagne is rarely of a first-rate brand. algernon. good heavens! is marriage so demoralising as that? lane. i believe it _is_ a very pleasant state, sir. i have had very little experience of it myself up to the present. i have only been married once. that was in consequence of a misunderstanding between myself and a young person. algernon. [languidly_._] i don't know that i am much interested in your family life, lane. lane. no, sir; it is not a very interesting subject. i never think of it myself. algernon. very natural, i am sure. that will do, lane, thank you. lane. thank you, sir. [lane goes out.] algernon. lane's views on marriage seem somewhat lax. really, if the lower orders don't set us a good example, what on earth is the use of them? they seem, as a class, to have absolutely no sense of moral responsibility. [enter lane.] lane. mr. ernest worthing. [enter jack.] [lane goes out_._] algernon. how are you, my dear ernest? what brings you up to town? jack. oh, pleasure, pleasure! what else should bring one anywhere? eating as usual, i see, algy! algernon. [stiffly_._] i believe it is customary in good society to take some slight refreshment at five o'clock. where have you been since last thursday? jack. [sitting down on the sofa.] in the country. algernon. what on earth do you do there? jack. [pulling off his gloves_._] when one is in town one amuses oneself. when one is in the country one amuses other people. it is excessively boring. algernon. and who are the people you amuse? jack. [airily_._] oh, neighbours, neighbours. algernon. got nice neighbours in your part of shropshire? jack. perfectly horrid! never speak to one of them. algernon. how immensely you must amuse them! [goes over and takes sandwich.] by the way, shropshire is your county, is it not? jack. eh? shropshire? yes, of course. hallo! why all these cups? why cucumber sandwiches? why such reckless extravagance in one so young? who is coming to tea? algernon. oh! merely aunt augusta and gwendolen. jack. how perfectly delightful! algernon. yes, that is all very well; but i am afraid aunt augusta won't quite approve of your being here. jack. may i ask why? algernon. my dear fellow, the way you flirt with gwendolen is perfectly disgraceful. it is almost as bad as the way gwendolen flirts with you. jack. i am in love with gwendolen. i have come up to town expressly to propose to her. algernon. i thought you had come up for pleasure? . . . i call that business. jack. how utterly unromantic you are! algernon. i really don't see anything romantic in proposing. it is very romantic to be in love. but there is nothing romantic about a definite proposal. why, one may be accepted. one usually is, i believe. then the excitement is all over. the very essence of romance is uncertainty. if ever i get married, i'll certainly try to forget the fact. jack. i have no doubt about that, dear algy. the divorce court was specially invented for people whose memories are so curiously constituted. algernon. oh! there is no use speculating on that subject. divorces are made in heaven--[jack puts out his hand to take a sandwich. algernon at once interferes.] please don't touch the cucumber sandwiches. they are ordered specially for aunt augusta. [takes one and eats it.] jack. well, you have been eating them all the time. algernon. that is quite a different matter. she is my aunt. [takes plate from below.] have some bread and butter. the bread and butter is for gwendolen. gwendolen is devoted to bread and butter. jack. [advancing to table and helping himself.] and very good bread and butter it is too. algernon. well, my dear fellow, you need not eat as if you were going to eat it all. you behave as if you were married to her already. you are not married to her already, and i don't think you ever will be. jack. why on earth do you say that? algernon. well, in the first place girls never marry the men they flirt with. girls don't think it right. jack. oh, that is nonsense! algernon. it isn't. it is a great truth. it accounts for the extraordinary number of bachelors that one sees all over the place. in the second place, i don't give my consent. jack. your consent! algernon. my dear fellow, gwendolen is my first cousin. and before i allow you to marry her, you will have to clear up the whole question of cecily. [rings bell.] jack. cecily! what on earth do you mean? what do you mean, algy, by cecily! i don't know any one of the name of cecily. [enter lane.] algernon. bring me that cigarette case mr. worthing left in the smoking- room the last time he dined here. lane. yes, sir. [lane goes out.] jack. do you mean to say you have had my cigarette case all this time? i wish to goodness you had let me know. i have been writing frantic letters to scotland yard about it. i was very nearly offering a large reward. algernon. well, i wish you would offer one. i happen to be more than usually hard up. jack. there is no good offering a large reward now that the thing is found. [enter lane with the cigarette case on a salver. algernon takes it at once. lane goes out.] algernon. i think that is rather mean of you, ernest, i must say. [opens case and examines it.] however, it makes no matter, for, now that i look at the inscription inside, i find that the thing isn't yours after all. jack. of course it's mine. [moving to him.] you have seen me with it a hundred times, and you have no right whatsoever to read what is written inside. it is a very ungentlemanly thing to read a private cigarette case. algernon. oh! it is absurd to have a hard and fast rule about what one should read and what one shouldn't. more than half of modern culture depends on what one shouldn't read. jack. i am quite aware of the fact, and i don't propose to discuss modern culture. it isn't the sort of thing one should talk of in private. i simply want my cigarette case back. algernon. yes; but this isn't your cigarette case. this cigarette case is a present from some one of the name of cecily, and you said you didn't know any one of that name. jack. well, if you want to know, cecily happens to be my aunt. algernon. your aunt! jack. yes. charming old lady she is, too. lives at tunbridge wells. just give it back to me, algy. algernon. [retreating to back of sofa.] but why does she call herself little cecily if she is your aunt and lives at tunbridge wells? [reading.] 'from little cecily with her fondest love.' jack. [moving to sofa and kneeling upon it.] my dear fellow, what on earth is there in that? some aunts are tall, some aunts are not tall. that is a matter that surely an aunt may be allowed to decide for herself. you seem to think that every aunt should be exactly like your aunt! that is absurd! for heaven's sake give me back my cigarette case. [follows algernon round the room.] algernon. yes. but why does your aunt call you her uncle? 'from little cecily, with her fondest love to her dear uncle jack.' there is no objection, i admit, to an aunt being a small aunt, but why an aunt, no matter what her size may be, should call her own nephew her uncle, i can't quite make out. besides, your name isn't jack at all; it is ernest. jack. it isn't ernest; it's jack. algernon. you have always told me it was ernest. i have introduced you to every one as ernest. you answer to the name of ernest. you look as if your name was ernest. you are the most earnest-looking person i ever saw in my life. it is perfectly absurd your saying that your name isn't ernest. it's on your cards. here is one of them. [taking it from case.] 'mr. ernest worthing, b. <UNK> the albany.' i'll keep this as a proof that your name is ernest if ever you attempt to deny it to me, or to gwendolen, or to any one else. [puts the card in his pocket.] jack. well, my name is ernest in town and jack in the country, and the cigarette case was given to me in the country. algernon. yes, but that does not account for the fact that your small aunt cecily, who lives at tunbridge wells, calls you her dear uncle. come, old boy, you had much better have the thing out at once. jack. my dear algy, you talk exactly as if you were a dentist. it is very vulgar to talk like a dentist when one isn't a dentist. it produces a false impression. algernon. well, that is exactly what dentists always do. now, go on! tell me the whole thing. i may mention that i have always suspected you of being a confirmed and secret bunburyist; and i am quite sure of it now. jack. bunburyist? what on earth do you mean by a bunburyist? algernon. i'll reveal to you the meaning of that incomparable expression as soon as you are kind enough to inform me why you are ernest in town and jack in the country. jack. well, produce my cigarette case first. algernon. here it is. [hands cigarette case.] now produce your explanation, and pray make it improbable. [sits on sofa.] jack. my dear fellow, there is nothing improbable about my explanation at all. in fact it's perfectly ordinary. old mr. thomas cardew, who adopted me when i was a little boy, made me in his will guardian to his grand-daughter, miss cecily cardew. cecily, who addresses me as her uncle from motives of respect that you could not possibly appreciate, lives at my place in the country under the charge of her admirable governess, miss prism. algernon. where is that place in the country, by the way? jack. that is nothing to you, dear boy. you are not going to be invited . . . i may tell you candidly that the place is not in shropshire. algernon. i suspected that, my dear fellow! i have bunburyed all over shropshire on two separate occasions. now, go on. why are you ernest in town and jack in the country? jack. my dear algy, i don't know whether you will be able to understand my real motives. you are hardly serious enough. when one is placed in the position of guardian, one has to adopt a very high moral tone on all subjects. it's one's duty to do so. and as a high moral tone can hardly be said to conduce very much to either one's health or one's happiness, in order to get up to town i have always pretended to have a younger brother of the name of ernest, who lives in the albany, and gets into the most dreadful scrapes. that, my dear algy, is the whole truth pure and simple. algernon. the truth is rarely pure and never simple. modern life would be very tedious if it were either, and modern literature a complete impossibility! jack. that wouldn't be at all a bad thing. algernon. literary criticism is not your forte, my dear fellow. don't try it. you should leave that to people who haven't been at a university. they do it so well in the daily papers. what you really are is a bunburyist. i was quite right in saying you were a bunburyist. you are one of the most advanced bunburyists i know. jack. what on earth do you mean? algernon. you have invented a very useful younger brother called ernest, in order that you may be able to come up to town as often as you like. i have invented an invaluable permanent invalid called bunbury, in order that i may be able to go down into the country whenever i choose. bunbury is perfectly invaluable. if it wasn't for bunbury's extraordinary bad health, for instance, i wouldn't be able to dine with you at willis's to- night, for i have been really engaged to aunt augusta for more than a week. jack. i haven't asked you to dine with me anywhere to-night. algernon. i know. you are absurdly careless about sending out invitations. it is very foolish of you. nothing annoys people so much as not receiving invitations. jack. you had much better dine with your aunt augusta. algernon. i haven't the smallest intention of doing anything of the kind. to begin with, i dined there on monday, and once a week is quite enough to dine with one's own relations. in the second place, whenever i do dine there i am always treated as a member of the family, and sent down with either no woman at all, or two. in the third place, i know perfectly well whom she will place me next to, to-night. she will place me next mary farquhar, who always flirts with her own husband across the dinner-table. that is not very pleasant. indeed, it is not even decent . . . and that sort of thing is enormously on the increase. the amount of women in london who flirt with their own husbands is perfectly scandalous. it looks so bad. it is simply washing one's clean linen in public. besides, now that i know you to be a confirmed bunburyist i naturally want to talk to you about bunburying. i want to tell you the rules. jack. i'm not a bunburyist at all. if gwendolen accepts me, i am going to kill my brother, indeed i think i'll kill him in any case. cecily is a little too much interested in him. it is rather a bore. so i am going to get rid of ernest. and i strongly advise you to do the same with mr. . . . with your invalid friend who has the absurd name. algernon. nothing will induce me to part with bunbury, and if you ever get married, which seems to me extremely problematic, you will be very glad to know bunbury. a man who marries without knowing bunbury has a very tedious time of it. jack. that is nonsense. if i marry a charming girl like gwendolen, and she is the only girl i ever saw in my life that i would marry, i certainly won't want to know bunbury. algernon. then your wife will. you don't seem to realise, that in married life three is company and two is none. jack. [sententiously.] that, my dear young friend, is the theory that the corrupt french drama has been propounding for the last fifty years. algernon. yes; and that the happy english home has proved in half the time. jack. for heaven's sake, don't try to be cynical. it's perfectly easy to be cynical. algernon. my dear fellow, it isn't easy to be anything nowadays. there's such a lot of beastly competition about. [the sound of an electric bell is heard.] ah! that must be aunt augusta. only relatives, or creditors, ever ring in that wagnerian manner. now, if i get her out of the way for ten minutes, so that you can have an opportunity for proposing to gwendolen, may i dine with you to-night at willis's? jack. i suppose so, if you want to. algernon. yes, but you must be serious about it. i hate people who are not serious about meals. it is so shallow of them. [enter lane.] lane. lady bracknell and miss fairfax. [algernon goes forward to meet them. enter lady bracknell and gwendolen.] lady bracknell. good afternoon, dear algernon, i hope you are behaving very well. algernon. i'm feeling very well, aunt augusta. lady bracknell. that's not quite the same thing. in fact the two things rarely go together. [sees jack and bows to him with icy coldness.] algernon. [to gwendolen.] dear me, you are smart! gwendolen. i am always smart! am i not, mr. worthing? jack. you're quite perfect, miss fairfax. gwendolen. oh! i hope i am not that. it would leave no room for developments, and i intend to develop in many directions. [gwendolen and jack sit down together in the corner.] lady bracknell. i'm sorry if we are a little late, algernon, but i was obliged to call on dear lady harbury. i hadn't been there since her poor husband's death. i never saw a woman so altered; she looks quite twenty years younger. and now i'll have a cup of tea, and one of those nice cucumber sandwiches you promised me. algernon. certainly, aunt augusta. [goes over to tea-table.] lady bracknell. won't you come and sit here, gwendolen? gwendolen. thanks, mamma, i'm quite comfortable where i am. algernon. [picking up empty plate in horror.] good heavens! lane! why are there no cucumber sandwiches? i ordered them specially. lane. [gravely.] there were no cucumbers in the market this morning, sir. i went down twice. algernon. no cucumbers! lane. no, sir. not even for ready money. algernon. that will do, lane, thank you. lane. thank you, sir. [goes out.] algernon. i am greatly distressed, aunt augusta, about there being no cucumbers, not even for ready money. lady bracknell. it really makes no matter, algernon. i had some crumpets with lady harbury, who seems to me to be living entirely for pleasure now. algernon. i hear her hair has turned quite gold from grief. lady bracknell. it certainly has changed its colour. from what cause i, of course, cannot say. [algernon crosses and hands tea.] thank you. i've quite a treat for you to-night, algernon. i am going to send you down with mary farquhar. she is such a nice woman, and so attentive to her husband. it's delightful to watch them. algernon. i am afraid, aunt augusta, i shall have to give up the pleasure of dining with you to-night after all. lady bracknell. [frowning.] i hope not, algernon. it would put my table completely out. your uncle would have to dine upstairs. fortunately he is accustomed to that. algernon. it is a great bore, and, i need hardly say, a terrible disappointment to me, but the fact is i have just had a telegram to say that my poor friend bunbury is very ill again. [exchanges glances with jack.] they seem to think i should be with him. lady bracknell. it is very strange. this mr. bunbury seems to suffer from curiously bad health. algernon. yes; poor bunbury is a dreadful invalid. lady bracknell. well, i must say, algernon, that i think it is high time that mr. bunbury made up his mind whether he was going to live or to die. this shilly-shallying with the question is absurd. nor do i in any way approve of the modern sympathy with invalids. i consider it morbid. illness of any kind is hardly a thing to be encouraged in others. health is the primary duty of life. i am always telling that to your poor uncle, but he never seems to take much notice . . . as far as any improvement in his ailment goes. i should be much obliged if you would ask mr. bunbury, from me, to be kind enough not to have a relapse on saturday, for i rely on you to arrange my music for me. it is my last reception, and one wants something that will encourage conversation, particularly at the end of the season when every one has practically said whatever they had to say, which, in most cases, was probably not much. algernon. i'll speak to bunbury, aunt augusta, if he is still conscious, and i think i can promise you he'll be all right by saturday. of course the music is a great difficulty. you see, if one plays good music, people don't listen, and if one plays bad music people don't talk. but i'll run over the programme i've drawn out, if you will kindly come into the next room for a moment. lady bracknell. thank you, algernon. it is very thoughtful of you. [rising, and following algernon.] i'm sure the programme will be delightful, after a few expurgations. french songs i cannot possibly allow. people always seem to think that they are improper, and either look shocked, which is vulgar, or laugh, which is worse. but german sounds a thoroughly respectable language, and indeed, i believe is so. gwendolen, you will accompany me. gwendolen. certainly, mamma. [lady bracknell and algernon go into the music-room, gwendolen remains behind.] jack. charming day it has been, miss fairfax. gwendolen. pray don't talk to me about the weather, mr. worthing. whenever people talk to me about the weather, i always feel quite certain that they mean something else. and that makes me so nervous. jack. i do mean something else. gwendolen. i thought so. in fact, i am never wrong. jack. and i would like to be allowed to take advantage of lady bracknell's temporary absence . . . gwendolen. i would certainly advise you to do so. mamma has a way of coming back suddenly into a room that i have often had to speak to her about. jack. [nervously.] miss fairfax, ever since i met you i have admired you more than any girl . . . i have ever met since . . . i met you. gwendolen. yes, i am quite well aware of the fact. and i often wish that in public, at any rate, you had been more demonstrative. for me you have always had an irresistible fascination. even before i met you i was far from indifferent to you. [jack looks at her in amazement.] we live, as i hope you know, mr. worthing, in an age of ideals. the fact is constantly mentioned in the more expensive monthly magazines, and has reached the provincial pulpits, i am told; and my ideal has always been to love some one of the name of ernest. there is something in that name that inspires absolute confidence. the moment algernon first mentioned to me that he had a friend called ernest, i knew i was destined to love you. jack. you really love me, gwendolen? gwendolen. passionately! jack. darling! you don't know how happy you've made me. gwendolen. my own ernest! jack. but you don't really mean to say that you couldn't love me if my name wasn't ernest? gwendolen. but your name is ernest. jack. yes, i know it is. but supposing it was something else? do you mean to say you couldn't love me then? gwendolen. [glibly.] ah! that is clearly a metaphysical speculation, and like most metaphysical speculations has very little reference at all to the actual facts of real life, as we know them. jack. personally, darling, to speak quite candidly, i don't much care about the name of ernest . . . i don't think the name suits me at all. gwendolen. it suits you perfectly. it is a divine name. it has a music of its own. it produces vibrations. jack. well, really, gwendolen, i must say that i think there are lots of other much nicer names. i think jack, for instance, a charming name. gwendolen. jack? . . . no, there is very little music in the name jack, if any at all, indeed. it does not thrill. it produces absolutely no vibrations . . . i have known several jacks, and they all, without exception, were more than usually plain. besides, jack is a notorious domesticity for john! and i pity any woman who is married to a man called john. she would probably never be allowed to know the entrancing pleasure of a single moment's solitude. the only really safe name is ernest. jack. gwendolen, i must get christened at once--i mean we must get married at once. there is no time to be lost. gwendolen. married, mr. worthing? jack. [astounded.] well . . . surely. you know that i love you, and you led me to believe, miss fairfax, that you were not absolutely indifferent to me. gwendolen. i adore you. but you haven't proposed to me yet. nothing has been said at all about marriage. the subject has not even been touched on. jack. well . . . may i propose to you now? gwendolen. i think it would be an admirable opportunity. and to spare you any possible disappointment, mr. worthing, i think it only fair to tell you quite frankly before-hand that i am fully determined to accept you. jack. gwendolen! gwendolen. yes, mr. worthing, what have you got to say to me? jack. you know what i have got to say to you. gwendolen. yes, but you don't say it. jack. gwendolen, will you marry me? [goes on his knees.] gwendolen. of course i will, darling. how long you have been about it! i am afraid you have had very little experience in how to propose. jack. my own one, i have never loved any one in the world but you. gwendolen. yes, but men often propose for practice. i know my brother gerald does. all my girl-friends tell me so. what wonderfully blue eyes you have, ernest! they are quite, quite, blue. i hope you will always look at me just like that, especially when there are other people present. [enter lady bracknell.] lady bracknell. mr. worthing! rise, sir, from this semi-recumbent posture. it is most indecorous. gwendolen. mamma! [he tries to rise; she restrains him.] i must beg you to retire. this is no place for you. besides, mr. worthing has not quite finished yet. lady bracknell. finished what, may i ask? gwendolen. i am engaged to mr. worthing, mamma. [they rise together.] lady bracknell. pardon me, you are not engaged to any one. when you do become engaged to some one, i, or your father, should his health permit him, will inform you of the fact. an engagement should come on a young girl as a surprise, pleasant or unpleasant, as the case may be. it is hardly a matter that she could be allowed to arrange for herself . . . and now i have a few questions to put to you, mr. worthing. while i am making these inquiries, you, gwendolen, will wait for me below in the carriage. gwendolen. [reproachfully.] mamma! lady bracknell. in the carriage, gwendolen! [gwendolen goes to the door. she and jack blow kisses to each other behind lady bracknell's back. lady bracknell looks vaguely about as if she could not understand what the noise was. finally turns round.] gwendolen, the carriage! gwendolen. yes, mamma. [goes out, looking back at jack.] lady bracknell. [sitting down.] you can take a seat, mr. worthing. [looks in her pocket for note-book and pencil.] jack. thank you, lady bracknell, i prefer standing. lady bracknell. [pencil and note-book in hand.] i feel bound to tell you that you are not down on my list of eligible young men, although i have the same list as the dear duchess of bolton has. we work together, in fact. however, i am quite ready to enter your name, should your answers be what a really affectionate mother requires. do you smoke? jack. well, yes, i must admit i smoke. lady bracknell. i am glad to hear it. a man should always have an occupation of some kind. there are far too many idle men in london as it is. how old are you? jack. twenty-nine. lady bracknell. a very good age to be married at. i have always been of opinion that a man who desires to get married should know either everything or nothing. which do you know? jack. [after some hesitation.] i know nothing, lady bracknell. lady bracknell. i am pleased to hear it. i do not approve of anything that tampers with natural ignorance. ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit; touch it and the bloom is gone. the whole theory of modern education is radically unsound. fortunately in england, at any rate, education produces no effect whatsoever. if it did, it would prove a serious danger to the upper classes, and probably lead to acts of violence in grosvenor square. what is your income? jack. between seven and eight thousand a year. lady bracknell. [makes a note in her book.] in land, or in investments? jack. in investments, chiefly. lady bracknell. that is satisfactory. what between the duties expected of one during one's lifetime, and the duties exacted from one after one's death, land has ceased to be either a profit or a pleasure. it gives one position, and prevents one from keeping it up. that's all that can be said about land. jack. i have a country house with some land, of course, attached to it, about fifteen hundred acres, i believe; but i don't depend on that for my real income. in fact, as far as i can make out, the poachers are the only people who make anything out of it. lady bracknell. a country house! how many bedrooms? well, that point can be cleared up afterwards. you have a town house, i hope? a girl with a simple, unspoiled nature, like gwendolen, could hardly be expected to reside in the country. jack. well, i own a house in belgrave square, but it is let by the year to lady bloxham. of course, i can get it back whenever i like, at six months' notice. lady bracknell. lady bloxham? i don't know her. jack. oh, she goes about very little. she is a lady considerably advanced in years. lady bracknell. ah, nowadays that is no guarantee of respectability of character. what number in belgrave square? jack. <UNK> lady bracknell. [shaking her head.] the unfashionable side. i thought there was something. however, that could easily be altered. jack. do you mean the fashion, or the side? lady bracknell. [sternly.] both, if necessary, i presume. what are your politics? jack. well, i am afraid i really have none. i am a liberal unionist. lady bracknell. oh, they count as tories. they dine with us. or come in the evening, at any rate. now to minor matters. are your parents living? jack. i have lost both my parents. lady bracknell. to lose one parent, mr. worthing, may be regarded as a misfortune; to lose both looks like carelessness. who was your father? he was evidently a man of some wealth. was he born in what the radical papers call the purple of commerce, or did he rise from the ranks of the aristocracy? jack. i am afraid i really don't know. the fact is, lady bracknell, i said i had lost my parents. it would be nearer the truth to say that my parents seem to have lost me . . . i don't actually know who i am by birth. i was . . . well, i was found. lady bracknell. found! jack. the late mr. thomas cardew, an old gentleman of a very charitable and kindly disposition, found me, and gave me the name of worthing, because he happened to have a first-class ticket for worthing in his pocket at the time. worthing is a place in sussex. it is a seaside resort. lady bracknell. where did the charitable gentleman who had a first-class ticket for this seaside resort find you? jack. [gravely.] in a hand-bag. lady bracknell. a hand-bag? jack. [very seriously.] yes, lady bracknell. i was in a hand-bag--a somewhat large, black leather hand-bag, with handles to it--an ordinary hand-bag in fact. lady bracknell. in what locality did this mr. james, or thomas, cardew come across this ordinary hand-bag? jack. in the cloak-room at victoria station. it was given to him in mistake for his own. lady bracknell. the cloak-room at victoria station? jack. yes. the brighton line. lady bracknell. the line is immaterial. mr. worthing, i confess i feel somewhat bewildered by what you have just told me. to be born, or at any rate bred, in a hand-bag, whether it had handles or not, seems to me to display a contempt for the ordinary decencies of family life that reminds one of the worst excesses of the french revolution. and i presume you know what that unfortunate movement led to? as for the particular locality in which the hand-bag was found, a cloak-room at a railway station might serve to conceal a social indiscretion--has probably, indeed, been used for that purpose before now--but it could hardly be regarded as an assured basis for a recognised position in good society. jack. may i ask you then what you would advise me to do? i need hardly say i would do anything in the world to ensure gwendolen's happiness. lady bracknell. i would strongly advise you, mr. worthing, to try and acquire some relations as soon as possible, and to make a definite effort to produce at any rate one parent, of either sex, before the season is quite over. jack. well, i don't see how i could possibly manage to do that. i can produce the hand-bag at any moment. it is in my dressing-room at home. i really think that should satisfy you, lady bracknell. lady bracknell. me, sir! what has it to do with me? you can hardly imagine that i and lord bracknell would dream of allowing our only daughter--a girl brought up with the utmost care--to marry into a cloak- room, and form an alliance with a parcel? good morning, mr. worthing! [lady bracknell sweeps out in majestic indignation.] jack. good morning! [algernon, from the other room, strikes up the wedding march. jack looks perfectly furious, and goes to the door.] for goodness' sake don't play that ghastly tune, algy. how idiotic you are! [the music stops and algernon enters cheerily.] algernon. didn't it go off all right, old boy? you don't mean to say gwendolen refused you? i know it is a way she has. she is always refusing people. i think it is most ill-natured of her. jack. oh, gwendolen is as right as a trivet. as far as she is concerned, we are engaged. her mother is perfectly unbearable. never met such a gorgon . . . i don't really know what a gorgon is like, but i am quite sure that lady bracknell is one. in any case, she is a monster, without being a myth, which is rather unfair . . . i beg your pardon, algy, i suppose i shouldn't talk about your own aunt in that way before you. algernon. my dear boy, i love hearing my relations abused. it is the only thing that makes me put up with them at all. relations are simply a tedious pack of people, who haven't got the remotest knowledge of how to live, nor the smallest instinct about when to die. jack. oh, that is nonsense! algernon. it isn't! jack. well, i won't argue about the matter. you always want to argue about things. algernon. that is exactly what things were originally made for. jack. upon my word, if i thought that, i'd shoot myself . . . [a pause.] you don't think there is any chance of gwendolen becoming like her mother in about a hundred and fifty years, do you, algy? algernon. all women become like their mothers. that is their tragedy. no man does. that's his. jack. is that clever? algernon. it is perfectly phrased! and quite as true as any observation in civilised life should be. jack. i am sick to death of cleverness. everybody is clever nowadays. you can't go anywhere without meeting clever people. the thing has become an absolute public nuisance. i wish to goodness we had a few fools left. algernon. we have. jack. i should extremely like to meet them. what do they talk about? algernon. the fools? oh! about the clever people, of course. jack. what fools! algernon. by the way, did you tell gwendolen the truth about your being ernest in town, and jack in the country? jack. [in a very patronising manner.] my dear fellow, the truth isn't quite the sort of thing one tells to a nice, sweet, refined girl. what extraordinary ideas you have about the way to behave to a woman! algernon. the only way to behave to a woman is to make love to her, if she is pretty, and to some one else, if she is plain. jack. oh, that is nonsense. algernon. what about your brother? what about the profligate ernest? jack. oh, before the end of the week i shall have got rid of him. i'll say he died in paris of apoplexy. lots of people die of apoplexy, quite suddenly, don't they? algernon. yes, but it's hereditary, my dear fellow. it's a sort of thing that runs in families. you had much better say a severe chill. jack. you are sure a severe chill isn't hereditary, or anything of that kind? algernon. of course it isn't! jack. very well, then. my poor brother ernest to carried off suddenly, in paris, by a severe chill. that gets rid of him. algernon. but i thought you said that . . . miss cardew was a little too much interested in your poor brother ernest? won't she feel his loss a good deal? jack. oh, that is all right. cecily is not a silly romantic girl, i am glad to say. she has got a capital appetite, goes long walks, and pays no attention at all to her lessons. algernon. i would rather like to see cecily. jack. i will take very good care you never do. she is excessively pretty, and she is only just eighteen. algernon. have you told gwendolen yet that you have an excessively pretty ward who is only just eighteen? jack. oh! one doesn't blurt these things out to people. cecily and gwendolen are perfectly certain to be extremely great friends. i'll bet you anything you like that half an hour after they have met, they will be calling each other sister. algernon. women only do that when they have called each other a lot of other things first. now, my dear boy, if we want to get a good table at willis's, we really must go and dress. do you know it is nearly seven? jack. [irritably.] oh! it always is nearly seven. algernon. well, i'm hungry. jack. i never knew you when you weren't . . . algernon. what shall we do after dinner? go to a theatre? jack. oh no! i loathe listening. algernon. well, let us go to the club? jack. oh, no! i hate talking. algernon. well, we might trot round to the empire at ten? jack. oh, no! i can't bear looking at things. it is so silly. algernon. well, what shall we do? jack. nothing! algernon. it is awfully hard work doing nothing. however, i don't mind hard work where there is no definite object of any kind. [enter lane.] lane. miss fairfax. [enter gwendolen. lane goes out.] algernon. gwendolen, upon my word! gwendolen. algy, kindly turn your back. i have something very particular to say to mr. worthing. algernon. really, gwendolen, i don't think i can allow this at all. gwendolen. algy, you always adopt a strictly immoral attitude towards life. you are not quite old enough to do that. [algernon retires to the fireplace.] jack. my own darling! gwendolen. ernest, we may never be married. from the expression on mamma's face i fear we never shall. few parents nowadays pay any regard to what their children say to them. the old-fashioned respect for the young is fast dying out. whatever influence i ever had over mamma, i lost at the age of three. but although she may prevent us from becoming man and wife, and i may marry some one else, and marry often, nothing that she can possibly do can alter my eternal devotion to you. jack. dear gwendolen! gwendolen. the story of your romantic origin, as related to me by mamma, with unpleasing comments, has naturally stirred the deeper fibres of my nature. your christian name has an irresistible fascination. the simplicity of your character makes you exquisitely incomprehensible to me. your town address at the albany i have. what is your address in the country? jack. the manor house, woolton, hertfordshire. [algernon, who has been carefully listening, smiles to himself, and writes the address on his shirt-cuff. then picks up the railway guide.] gwendolen. there is a good postal service, i suppose? it may be necessary to do something desperate. that of course will require serious consideration. i will communicate with you daily. jack. my own one! gwendolen. how long do you remain in town? jack. till monday. gwendolen. good! algy, you may turn round now. algernon. thanks, i've turned round already. gwendolen. you may also ring the bell. jack. you will let me see you to your carriage, my own darling? gwendolen. certainly. jack. [to lane, who now enters.] i will see miss fairfax out. lane. yes, sir. [jack and gwendolen go off.] [lane presents several letters on a salver to algernon. it is to be surmised that they are bills, as algernon, after looking at the envelopes, tears them up.] algernon. a glass of sherry, lane. lane. yes, sir. algernon. to-morrow, lane, i'm going bunburying. lane. yes, sir. algernon. i shall probably not be back till monday. you can put up my dress clothes, my smoking jacket, and all the bunbury suits . . . lane. yes, sir. [handing sherry.] algernon. i hope to-morrow will be a fine day, lane. lane. it never is, sir. algernon. lane, you're a perfect pessimist. lane. i do my best to give satisfaction, sir. [enter jack. lane goes off.] jack. there's a sensible, intellectual girl! the only girl i ever cared for in my life. [algernon is laughing immoderately.] what on earth are you so amused at? algernon. oh, i'm a little anxious about poor bunbury, that is all. jack. if you don't take care, your friend bunbury will get you into a serious scrape some day. algernon. i love scrapes. they are the only things that are never serious. jack. oh, that's nonsense, algy. you never talk anything but nonsense. algernon. nobody ever does. [jack looks indignantly at him, and leaves the room. algernon lights a cigarette, reads his shirt-cuff, and smiles.] act drop second act scene garden at the manor house. a flight of grey stone steps leads up to the house. the garden, an old-fashioned one, full of roses. time of year, july. basket chairs, and a table covered with books, are set under a large yew-tree. [miss prism discovered seated at the table. cecily is at the back watering flowers.] miss prism. [calling.] cecily, cecily! surely such a utilitarian occupation as the watering of flowers is rather moulton's duty than yours? especially at a moment when intellectual pleasures await you. your german grammar is on the table. pray open it at page fifteen. we will repeat yesterday's lesson. cecily. [coming over very slowly.] but i don't like german. it isn't at all a becoming language. i know perfectly well that i look quite plain after my german lesson. miss prism. child, you know how anxious your guardian is that you should improve yourself in every way. he laid particular stress on your german, as he was leaving for town yesterday. indeed, he always lays stress on your german when he is leaving for town. cecily. dear uncle jack is so very serious! sometimes he is so serious that i think he cannot be quite well. miss prism. [drawing herself up.] your guardian enjoys the best of health, and his gravity of demeanour is especially to be commended in one so comparatively young as he is. i know no one who has a higher sense of duty and responsibility. cecily. i suppose that is why he often looks a little bored when we three are together. miss prism. cecily! i am surprised at you. mr. worthing has many troubles in his life. idle merriment and triviality would be out of place in his conversation. you must remember his constant anxiety about that unfortunate young man his brother. cecily. i wish uncle jack would allow that unfortunate young man, his brother, to come down here sometimes. we might have a good influence over him, miss prism. i am sure you certainly would. you know german, and geology, and things of that kind influence a man very much. [cecily begins to write in her diary.] miss prism. [shaking her head.] i do not think that even i could produce any effect on a character that according to his own brother's admission is irretrievably weak and vacillating. indeed i am not sure that i would desire to reclaim him. i am not in favour of this modern mania for turning bad people into good people at a moment's notice. as a man sows so let him reap. you must put away your diary, cecily. i really don't see why you should keep a diary at all. cecily. i keep a diary in order to enter the wonderful secrets of my life. if i didn't write them down, i should probably forget all about them. miss prism. memory, my dear cecily, is the diary that we all carry about with us. cecily. yes, but it usually chronicles the things that have never happened, and couldn't possibly have happened. i believe that memory is responsible for nearly all the three-volume novels that mudie sends us. miss prism. do not speak slightingly of the three-volume novel, cecily. i wrote one myself in earlier days. cecily. did you really, miss prism? how wonderfully clever you are! i hope it did not end happily? i don't like novels that end happily. they depress me so much. miss prism. the good ended happily, and the bad unhappily. that is what fiction means. cecily. i suppose so. but it seems very unfair. and was your novel ever published? miss prism. alas! no. the manuscript unfortunately was abandoned. [cecily starts.] i use the word in the sense of lost or mislaid. to your work, child, these speculations are profitless. cecily. [smiling.] but i see dear dr. chasuble coming up through the garden. miss prism. [rising and advancing.] dr. chasuble! this is indeed a pleasure. [enter canon chasuble.] chasuble. and how are we this morning? miss prism, you are, i trust, well? cecily. miss prism has just been complaining of a slight headache. i think it would do her so much good to have a short stroll with you in the park, dr. chasuble. miss prism. cecily, i have not mentioned anything about a headache. cecily. no, dear miss prism, i know that, but i felt instinctively that you had a headache. indeed i was thinking about that, and not about my german lesson, when the rector came in. chasuble. i hope, cecily, you are not inattentive. cecily. oh, i am afraid i am. chasuble. that is strange. were i fortunate enough to be miss prism's pupil, i would hang upon her lips. [miss prism glares.] i spoke metaphorically.--my metaphor was drawn from bees. ahem! mr. worthing, i suppose, has not returned from town yet? miss prism. we do not expect him till monday afternoon. chasuble. ah yes, he usually likes to spend his sunday in london. he is not one of those whose sole aim is enjoyment, as, by all accounts, that unfortunate young man his brother seems to be. but i must not disturb egeria and her pupil any longer. miss prism. egeria? my name is laetitia, doctor. chasuble. [bowing.] a classical allusion merely, drawn from the pagan authors. i shall see you both no doubt at evensong? miss prism. i think, dear doctor, i will have a stroll with you. i find i have a headache after all, and a walk might do it good. chasuble. with pleasure, miss prism, with pleasure. we might go as far as the schools and back. miss prism. that would be delightful. cecily, you will read your political economy in my absence. the chapter on the fall of the rupee you may omit. it is somewhat too sensational. even these metallic problems have their melodramatic side. [goes down the garden with dr. chasuble.] cecily. [picks up books and throws them back on table.] horrid political economy! horrid geography! horrid, horrid german! [enter merriman with a card on a salver.] merriman. mr. ernest worthing has just driven over from the station. he has brought his luggage with him. cecily. [takes the card and reads it.] 'mr. ernest worthing, b. <UNK> the albany, w.' uncle jack's brother! did you tell him mr. worthing was in town? merriman. yes, miss. he seemed very much disappointed. i mentioned that you and miss prism were in the garden. he said he was anxious to speak to you privately for a moment. cecily. ask mr. ernest worthing to come here. i suppose you had better talk to the housekeeper about a room for him. merriman. yes, miss. [merriman goes off.] cecily. i have never met any really wicked person before. i feel rather frightened. i am so afraid he will look just like every one else. [enter algernon, very gay and debonnair.] he does! algernon. [raising his hat.] you are my little cousin cecily, i'm sure. cecily. you are under some strange mistake. i am not little. in fact, i believe i am more than usually tall for my age. [algernon is rather taken aback.] but i am your cousin cecily. you, i see from your card, are uncle jack's brother, my cousin ernest, my wicked cousin ernest. algernon. oh! i am not really wicked at all, cousin cecily. you mustn't think that i am wicked. cecily. if you are not, then you have certainly been deceiving us all in a very inexcusable manner. i hope you have not been leading a double life, pretending to be wicked and being really good all the time. that would be hypocrisy. algernon. [looks at her in amazement.] oh! of course i have been rather reckless. cecily. i am glad to hear it. algernon. in fact, now you mention the subject, i have been very bad in my own small way. cecily. i don't think you should be so proud of that, though i am sure it must have been very pleasant. algernon. it is much pleasanter being here with you. cecily. i can't understand how you are here at all. uncle jack won't be back till monday afternoon. algernon. that is a great disappointment. i am obliged to go up by the first train on monday morning. i have a business appointment that i am anxious . . . to miss? cecily. couldn't you miss it anywhere but in london? algernon. no: the appointment is in london. cecily. well, i know, of course, how important it is not to keep a business engagement, if one wants to retain any sense of the beauty of life, but still i think you had better wait till uncle jack arrives. i know he wants to speak to you about your emigrating. algernon. about my what? cecily. your emigrating. he has gone up to buy your outfit. algernon. i certainly wouldn't let jack buy my outfit. he has no taste in neckties at all. cecily. i don't think you will require neckties. uncle jack is sending you to australia. algernon. australia! i'd sooner die. cecily. well, he said at dinner on wednesday night, that you would have to choose between this world, the next world, and australia. algernon. oh, well! the accounts i have received of australia and the next world, are not particularly encouraging. this world is good enough for me, cousin cecily. cecily. yes, but are you good enough for it? algernon. i'm afraid i'm not that. that is why i want you to reform me. you might make that your mission, if you don't mind, cousin cecily. cecily. i'm afraid i've no time, this afternoon. algernon. well, would you mind my reforming myself this afternoon? cecily. it is rather quixotic of you. but i think you should try. algernon. i will. i feel better already. cecily. you are looking a little worse. algernon. that is because i am hungry. cecily. how thoughtless of me. i should have remembered that when one is going to lead an entirely new life, one requires regular and wholesome meals. won't you come in? algernon. thank you. might i have a buttonhole first? i never have any appetite unless i have a buttonhole first. cecily. a marechal niel? [picks up scissors.] algernon. no, i'd sooner have a pink rose. cecily. why? [cuts a flower.] algernon. because you are like a pink rose, cousin cecily. cecily. i don't think it can be right for you to talk to me like that. miss prism never says such things to me. algernon. then miss prism is a short-sighted old lady. [cecily puts the rose in his buttonhole.] you are the prettiest girl i ever saw. cecily. miss prism says that all good looks are a snare. algernon. they are a snare that every sensible man would like to be caught in. cecily. oh, i don't think i would care to catch a sensible man. i shouldn't know what to talk to him about. [they pass into the house. miss prism and dr. chasuble return.] miss prism. you are too much alone, dear dr. chasuble. you should get married. a misanthrope i can understand--a womanthrope, never! chasuble. [with a scholar's shudder.] believe me, i do not deserve so neologistic a phrase. the precept as well as the practice of the primitive church was distinctly against matrimony. miss prism. [sententiously.] that is obviously the reason why the primitive church has not lasted up to the present day. and you do not seem to realise, dear doctor, that by persistently remaining single, a man converts himself into a permanent public temptation. men should be more careful; this very celibacy leads weaker vessels astray. chasuble. but is a man not equally attractive when married? miss prism. no married man is ever attractive except to his wife. chasuble. and often, i've been told, not even to her. miss prism. that depends on the intellectual sympathies of the woman. maturity can always be depended on. ripeness can be trusted. young women are green. [dr. chasuble starts.] i spoke horticulturally. my metaphor was drawn from fruits. but where is cecily? chasuble. perhaps she followed us to the schools. [enter jack slowly from the back of the garden. he is dressed in the deepest mourning, with crape hatband and black gloves.] miss prism. mr. worthing! chasuble. mr. worthing? miss prism. this is indeed a surprise. we did not look for you till monday afternoon. jack. [shakes miss prism's hand in a tragic manner.] i have returned sooner than i expected. dr. chasuble, i hope you are well? chasuble. dear mr. worthing, i trust this garb of woe does not betoken some terrible calamity? jack. my brother. miss prism. more shameful debts and extravagance? chasuble. still leading his life of pleasure? jack. [shaking his head.] dead! chasuble. your brother ernest dead? jack. quite dead. miss prism. what a lesson for him! i trust he will profit by it. chasuble. mr. worthing, i offer you my sincere condolence. you have at least the consolation of knowing that you were always the most generous and forgiving of brothers. jack. poor ernest! he had many faults, but it is a sad, sad blow. chasuble. very sad indeed. were you with him at the end? jack. no. he died abroad; in paris, in fact. i had a telegram last night from the manager of the grand hotel. chasuble. was the cause of death mentioned? jack. a severe chill, it seems. miss prism. as a man sows, so shall he reap. chasuble. [raising his hand.] charity, dear miss prism, charity! none of us are perfect. i myself am peculiarly susceptible to draughts. will the interment take place here? jack. no. he seems to have expressed a desire to be buried in paris. chasuble. in paris! [shakes his head.] i fear that hardly points to any very serious state of mind at the last. you would no doubt wish me to make some slight allusion to this tragic domestic affliction next sunday. [jack presses his hand convulsively.] my sermon on the meaning of the manna in the wilderness can be adapted to almost any occasion, joyful, or, as in the present case, distressing. [all sigh.] i have preached it at harvest celebrations, christenings, confirmations, on days of humiliation and festal days. the last time i delivered it was in the cathedral, as a charity sermon on behalf of the society for the prevention of discontent among the upper orders. the bishop, who was present, was much struck by some of the analogies i drew. jack. ah! that reminds me, you mentioned christenings i think, dr. chasuble? i suppose you know how to christen all right? [dr. chasuble looks astounded.] i mean, of course, you are continually christening, aren't you? miss prism. it is, i regret to say, one of the rector's most constant duties in this parish. i have often spoken to the poorer classes on the subject. but they don't seem to know what thrift is. chasuble. but is there any particular infant in whom you are interested, mr. worthing? your brother was, i believe, unmarried, was he not? jack. oh yes. miss prism. [bitterly.] people who live entirely for pleasure usually are. jack. but it is not for any child, dear doctor. i am very fond of children. no! the fact is, i would like to be christened myself, this afternoon, if you have nothing better to do. chasuble. but surely, mr. worthing, you have been christened already? jack. i don't remember anything about it. chasuble. but have you any grave doubts on the subject? jack. i certainly intend to have. of course i don't know if the thing would bother you in any way, or if you think i am a little too old now. chasuble. not at all. the sprinkling, and, indeed, the immersion of adults is a perfectly canonical practice. jack. immersion! chasuble. you need have no apprehensions. sprinkling is all that is necessary, or indeed i think advisable. our weather is so changeable. at what hour would you wish the ceremony performed? jack. oh, i might trot round about five if that would suit you. chasuble. perfectly, perfectly! in fact i have two similar ceremonies to perform at that time. a case of twins that occurred recently in one of the outlying cottages on your own estate. poor jenkins the carter, a most hard-working man. jack. oh! i don't see much fun in being christened along with other babies. it would be childish. would half-past five do? chasuble. admirably! admirably! [takes out watch.] and now, dear mr. worthing, i will not intrude any longer into a house of sorrow. i would merely beg you not to be too much bowed down by grief. what seem to us bitter trials are often blessings in disguise. miss prism. this seems to me a blessing of an extremely obvious kind. [enter cecily from the house.] cecily. uncle jack! oh, i am pleased to see you back. but what horrid clothes you have got on! do go and change them. miss prism. cecily! chasuble. my child! my child! [cecily goes towards jack; he kisses her brow in a melancholy manner.] cecily. what is the matter, uncle jack? do look happy! you look as if you had toothache, and i have got such a surprise for you. who do you think is in the dining-room? your brother! jack. who? cecily. your brother ernest. he arrived about half an hour ago. jack. what nonsense! i haven't got a brother. cecily. oh, don't say that. however badly he may have behaved to you in the past he is still your brother. you couldn't be so heartless as to disown him. i'll tell him to come out. and you will shake hands with him, won't you, uncle jack? [runs back into the house.] chasuble. these are very joyful tidings. miss prism. after we had all been resigned to his loss, his sudden return seems to me peculiarly distressing. jack. my brother is in the dining-room? i don't know what it all means. i think it is perfectly absurd. [enter algernon and cecily hand in hand. they come slowly up to jack.] jack. good heavens! [motions algernon away.] algernon. brother john, i have come down from town to tell you that i am very sorry for all the trouble i have given you, and that i intend to lead a better life in the future. [jack glares at him and does not take his hand.] cecily. uncle jack, you are not going to refuse your own brother's hand? jack. nothing will induce me to take his hand. i think his coming down here disgraceful. he knows perfectly well why. cecily. uncle jack, do be nice. there is some good in every one. ernest has just been telling me about his poor invalid friend mr. bunbury whom he goes to visit so often. and surely there must be much good in one who is kind to an invalid, and leaves the pleasures of london to sit by a bed of pain. jack. oh! he has been talking about bunbury, has he? cecily. yes, he has told me all about poor mr. bunbury, and his terrible state of health. jack. bunbury! well, i won't have him talk to you about bunbury or about anything else. it is enough to drive one perfectly frantic. algernon. of course i admit that the faults were all on my side. but i must say that i think that brother john's coldness to me is peculiarly painful. i expected a more enthusiastic welcome, especially considering it is the first time i have come here. cecily. uncle jack, if you don't shake hands with ernest i will never forgive you. jack. never forgive me? cecily. never, never, never! jack. well, this is the last time i shall ever do it. [shakes with algernon and glares.] chasuble. it's pleasant, is it not, to see so perfect a reconciliation? i think we might leave the two brothers together. miss prism. cecily, you will come with us. cecily. certainly, miss prism. my little task of reconciliation is over. chasuble. you have done a beautiful action to-day, dear child. miss prism. we must not be premature in our judgments. cecily. i feel very happy. [they all go off except jack and algernon.] jack. you young scoundrel, algy, you must get out of this place as soon as possible. i don't allow any bunburying here. [enter merriman.] merriman. i have put mr. ernest's things in the room next to yours, sir. i suppose that is all right? jack. what? merriman. mr. ernest's luggage, sir. i have unpacked it and put it in the room next to your own. jack. his luggage? merriman. yes, sir. three portmanteaus, a dressing-case, two hat-boxes, and a large luncheon-basket. algernon. i am afraid i can't stay more than a week this time. jack. merriman, order the dog-cart at once. mr. ernest has been suddenly called back to town. merriman. yes, sir. [goes back into the house.] algernon. what a fearful liar you are, jack. i have not been called back to town at all. jack. yes, you have. algernon. i haven't heard any one call me. jack. your duty as a gentleman calls you back. algernon. my duty as a gentleman has never interfered with my pleasures in the smallest degree. jack. i can quite understand that. algernon. well, cecily is a darling. jack. you are not to talk of miss cardew like that. i don't like it. algernon. well, i don't like your clothes. you look perfectly ridiculous in them. why on earth don't you go up and change? it is perfectly childish to be in deep mourning for a man who is actually staying for a whole week with you in your house as a guest. i call it grotesque. jack. you are certainly not staying with me for a whole week as a guest or anything else. you have got to leave . . . by the four-five train. algernon. i certainly won't leave you so long as you are in mourning. it would be most unfriendly. if i were in mourning you would stay with me, i suppose. i should think it very unkind if you didn't. jack. well, will you go if i change my clothes? algernon. yes, if you are not too long. i never saw anybody take so long to dress, and with such little result. jack. well, at any rate, that is better than being always over-dressed as you are. algernon. if i am occasionally a little over-dressed, i make up for it by being always immensely over-educated. jack. your vanity is ridiculous, your conduct an outrage, and your presence in my garden utterly absurd. however, you have got to catch the four-five, and i hope you will have a pleasant journey back to town. this bunburying, as you call it, has not been a great success for you. [goes into the house.] algernon. i think it has been a great success. i'm in love with cecily, and that is everything. [enter cecily at the back of the garden. she picks up the can and begins to water the flowers.] but i must see her before i go, and make arrangements for another bunbury. ah, there she is. cecily. oh, i merely came back to water the roses. i thought you were with uncle jack. algernon. he's gone to order the dog-cart for me. cecily. oh, is he going to take you for a nice drive? algernon. he's going to send me away. cecily. then have we got to part? algernon. i am afraid so. it's a very painful parting. cecily. it is always painful to part from people whom one has known for a very brief space of time. the absence of old friends one can endure with equanimity. but even a momentary separation from anyone to whom one has just been introduced is almost unbearable. algernon. thank you. [enter merriman.] merriman. the dog-cart is at the door, sir. [algernon looks appealingly at cecily.] cecily. it can wait, merriman for . . . five minutes. merriman. yes, miss. [exit merriman.] algernon. i hope, cecily, i shall not offend you if i state quite frankly and openly that you seem to me to be in every way the visible personification of absolute perfection. cecily. i think your frankness does you great credit, ernest. if you will allow me, i will copy your remarks into my diary. [goes over to table and begins writing in diary.] algernon. do you really keep a diary? i'd give anything to look at it. may i? cecily. oh no. [puts her hand over it.] you see, it is simply a very young girl's record of her own thoughts and impressions, and consequently meant for publication. when it appears in volume form i hope you will order a copy. but pray, ernest, don't stop. i delight in taking down from dictation. i have reached 'absolute perfection'. you can go on. i am quite ready for more. algernon. [somewhat taken aback.] ahem! ahem! cecily. oh, don't cough, ernest. when one is dictating one should speak fluently and not cough. besides, i don't know how to spell a cough. [writes as algernon speaks.] algernon. [speaking very rapidly.] cecily, ever since i first looked upon your wonderful and incomparable beauty, i have dared to love you wildly, passionately, devotedly, hopelessly. cecily. i don't think that you should tell me that you love me wildly, passionately, devotedly, hopelessly. hopelessly doesn't seem to make much sense, does it? algernon. cecily! [enter merriman.] merriman. the dog-cart is waiting, sir. algernon. tell it to come round next week, at the same hour. merriman. [looks at cecily, who makes no sign.] yes, sir. [merriman retires.] cecily. uncle jack would be very much annoyed if he knew you were staying on till next week, at the same hour. algernon. oh, i don't care about jack. i don't care for anybody in the whole world but you. i love you, cecily. you will marry me, won't you? cecily. you silly boy! of course. why, we have been engaged for the last three months. algernon. for the last three months? cecily. yes, it will be exactly three months on thursday. algernon. but how did we become engaged? cecily. well, ever since dear uncle jack first confessed to us that he had a younger brother who was very wicked and bad, you of course have formed the chief topic of conversation between myself and miss prism. and of course a man who is much talked about is always very attractive. one feels there must be something in him, after all. i daresay it was foolish of me, but i fell in love with you, ernest. algernon. darling! and when was the engagement actually settled? cecily. on the <UNK> of february last. worn out by your entire ignorance of my existence, i determined to end the matter one way or the other, and after a long struggle with myself i accepted you under this dear old tree here. the next day i bought this little ring in your name, and this is the little bangle with the true lover's knot i promised you always to wear. algernon. did i give you this? it's very pretty, isn't it? cecily. yes, you've wonderfully good taste, ernest. it's the excuse i've always given for your leading such a bad life. and this is the box in which i keep all your dear letters. [kneels at table, opens box, and produces letters tied up with blue ribbon.] algernon. my letters! but, my own sweet cecily, i have never written you any letters. cecily. you need hardly remind me of that, ernest. i remember only too well that i was forced to write your letters for you. i wrote always three times a week, and sometimes oftener. algernon. oh, do let me read them, cecily? cecily. oh, i couldn't possibly. they would make you far too conceited. [replaces box.] the three you wrote me after i had broken off the engagement are so beautiful, and so badly spelled, that even now i can hardly read them without crying a little. algernon. but was our engagement ever broken off? cecily. of course it was. on the <UNK> of last march. you can see the entry if you like. [shows diary.] 'to-day i broke off my engagement with ernest. i feel it is better to do so. the weather still continues charming.' algernon. but why on earth did you break it off? what had i done? i had done nothing at all. cecily, i am very much hurt indeed to hear you broke it off. particularly when the weather was so charming. cecily. it would hardly have been a really serious engagement if it hadn't been broken off at least once. but i forgave you before the week was out. algernon. [crossing to her, and kneeling.] what a perfect angel you are, cecily. cecily. you dear romantic boy. [he kisses her, she puts her fingers through his hair.] i hope your hair curls naturally, does it? algernon. yes, darling, with a little help from others. cecily. i am so glad. algernon. you'll never break off our engagement again, cecily? cecily. i don't think i could break it off now that i have actually met you. besides, of course, there is the question of your name. algernon. yes, of course. [nervously.] cecily. you must not laugh at me, darling, but it had always been a girlish dream of mine to love some one whose name was ernest. [algernon rises, cecily also.] there is something in that name that seems to inspire absolute confidence. i pity any poor married woman whose husband is not called ernest. algernon. but, my dear child, do you mean to say you could not love me if i had some other name? cecily. but what name? algernon. oh, any name you like--algernon--for instance . . . cecily. but i don't like the name of algernon. algernon. well, my own dear, sweet, loving little darling, i really can't see why you should object to the name of algernon. it is not at all a bad name. in fact, it is rather an aristocratic name. half of the chaps who get into the bankruptcy court are called algernon. but seriously, cecily . . . [moving to her] . . . if my name was algy, couldn't you love me? cecily. [rising.] i might respect you, ernest, i might admire your character, but i fear that i should not be able to give you my undivided attention. algernon. ahem! cecily! [picking up hat.] your rector here is, i suppose, thoroughly experienced in the practice of all the rites and ceremonials of the church? cecily. oh, yes. dr. chasuble is a most learned man. he has never written a single book, so you can imagine how much he knows. algernon. i must see him at once on a most important christening--i mean on most important business. cecily. oh! algernon. i shan't be away more than half an hour. cecily. considering that we have been engaged since february the <UNK> and that i only met you to-day for the first time, i think it is rather hard that you should leave me for so long a period as half an hour. couldn't you make it twenty minutes? algernon. i'll be back in no time. [kisses her and rushes down the garden.] cecily. what an impetuous boy he is! i like his hair so much. i must enter his proposal in my diary. [enter merriman.] merriman. a miss fairfax has just called to see mr. worthing. on very important business, miss fairfax states. cecily. isn't mr. worthing in his library? merriman. mr. worthing went over in the direction of the rectory some time ago. cecily. pray ask the lady to come out here; mr. worthing is sure to be back soon. and you can bring tea. merriman. yes, miss. [goes out.] cecily. miss fairfax! i suppose one of the many good elderly women who are associated with uncle jack in some of his philanthropic work in london. i don't quite like women who are interested in philanthropic work. i think it is so forward of them. [enter merriman.] merriman. miss fairfax. [enter gwendolen.] [exit merriman.] cecily. [advancing to meet her.] pray let me introduce myself to you. my name is cecily cardew. gwendolen. cecily cardew? [moving to her and shaking hands.] what a very sweet name! something tells me that we are going to be great friends. i like you already more than i can say. my first impressions of people are never wrong. cecily. how nice of you to like me so much after we have known each other such a comparatively short time. pray sit down. gwendolen. [still standing up.] i may call you cecily, may i not? cecily. with pleasure! gwendolen. and you will always call me gwendolen, won't you? cecily. if you wish. gwendolen. then that is all quite settled, is it not? cecily. i hope so. [a pause. they both sit down together.] gwendolen. perhaps this might be a favourable opportunity for my mentioning who i am. my father is lord bracknell. you have never heard of papa, i suppose? cecily. i don't think so. gwendolen. outside the family circle, papa, i am glad to say, is entirely unknown. i think that is quite as it should be. the home seems to me to be the proper sphere for the man. and certainly once a man begins to neglect his domestic duties he becomes painfully effeminate, does he not? and i don't like that. it makes men so very attractive. cecily, mamma, whose views on education are remarkably strict, has brought me up to be extremely short-sighted; it is part of her system; so do you mind my looking at you through my glasses? cecily. oh! not at all, gwendolen. i am very fond of being looked at. gwendolen. [after examining cecily carefully through a lorgnette.] you are here on a short visit, i suppose. cecily. oh no! i live here. gwendolen. [severely.] really? your mother, no doubt, or some female relative of advanced years, resides here also? cecily. oh no! i have no mother, nor, in fact, any relations. gwendolen. indeed? cecily. my dear guardian, with the assistance of miss prism, has the arduous task of looking after me. gwendolen. your guardian? cecily. yes, i am mr. worthing's ward. gwendolen. oh! it is strange he never mentioned to me that he had a ward. how secretive of him! he grows more interesting hourly. i am not sure, however, that the news inspires me with feelings of unmixed delight. [rising and going to her.] i am very fond of you, cecily; i have liked you ever since i met you! but i am bound to state that now that i know that you are mr. worthing's ward, i cannot help expressing a wish you were--well, just a little older than you seem to be--and not quite so very alluring in appearance. in fact, if i may speak candidly-- cecily. pray do! i think that whenever one has anything unpleasant to say, one should always be quite candid. gwendolen. well, to speak with perfect candour, cecily, i wish that you were fully forty-two, and more than usually plain for your age. ernest has a strong upright nature. he is the very soul of truth and honour. disloyalty would be as impossible to him as deception. but even men of the noblest possible moral character are extremely susceptible to the influence of the physical charms of others. modern, no less than ancient history, supplies us with many most painful examples of what i refer to. if it were not so, indeed, history would be quite unreadable. cecily. i beg your pardon, gwendolen, did you say ernest? gwendolen. yes. cecily. oh, but it is not mr. ernest worthing who is my guardian. it is his brother--his elder brother. gwendolen. [sitting down again.] ernest never mentioned to me that he had a brother. cecily. i am sorry to say they have not been on good terms for a long time. gwendolen. ah! that accounts for it. and now that i think of it i have never heard any man mention his brother. the subject seems distasteful to most men. cecily, you have lifted a load from my mind. i was growing almost anxious. it would have been terrible if any cloud had come across a friendship like ours, would it not? of course you are quite, quite sure that it is not mr. ernest worthing who is your guardian? cecily. quite sure. [a pause.] in fact, i am going to be his. gwendolen. [inquiringly.] i beg your pardon? cecily. [rather shy and confidingly.] dearest gwendolen, there is no reason why i should make a secret of it to you. our little county newspaper is sure to chronicle the fact next week. mr. ernest worthing and i are engaged to be married. gwendolen. [quite politely, rising.] my darling cecily, i think there must be some slight error. mr. ernest worthing is engaged to me. the announcement will appear in the _morning post_ on saturday at the latest. cecily. [very politely, rising.] i am afraid you must be under some misconception. ernest proposed to me exactly ten minutes ago. [shows diary.] gwendolen. [examines diary through her lorgnettte carefully.] it is certainly very curious, for he asked me to be his wife yesterday afternoon at <UNK> if you would care to verify the incident, pray do so. [produces diary of her own.] i never travel without my diary. one should always have something sensational to read in the train. i am so sorry, dear cecily, if it is any disappointment to you, but i am afraid i have the prior claim. cecily. it would distress me more than i can tell you, dear gwendolen, if it caused you any mental or physical anguish, but i feel bound to point out that since ernest proposed to you he clearly has changed his mind. gwendolen. [meditatively.] if the poor fellow has been entrapped into any foolish promise i shall consider it my duty to rescue him at once, and with a firm hand. cecily. [thoughtfully and sadly.] whatever unfortunate entanglement my dear boy may have got into, i will never reproach him with it after we are married. gwendolen. do you allude to me, miss cardew, as an entanglement? you are presumptuous. on an occasion of this kind it becomes more than a moral duty to speak one's mind. it becomes a pleasure. cecily. do you suggest, miss fairfax, that i entrapped ernest into an engagement? how dare you? this is no time for wearing the shallow mask of manners. when i see a spade i call it a spade. gwendolen. [satirically.] i am glad to say that i have never seen a spade. it is obvious that our social spheres have been widely different. [enter merriman, followed by the footman. he carries a salver, table cloth, and plate stand. cecily is about to retort. the presence of the servants exercises a restraining influence, under which both girls chafe.] merriman. shall i lay tea here as usual, miss? cecily. [sternly, in a calm voice.] yes, as usual. [merriman begins to clear table and lay cloth. a long pause. cecily and gwendolen glare at each other.] gwendolen. are there many interesting walks in the vicinity, miss cardew? cecily. oh! yes! a great many. from the top of one of the hills quite close one can see five counties. gwendolen. five counties! i don't think i should like that; i hate crowds. cecily. [sweetly.] i suppose that is why you live in town? [gwendolen bites her lip, and beats her foot nervously with her parasol.] gwendolen. [looking round.] quite a well-kept garden this is, miss cardew. cecily. so glad you like it, miss fairfax. gwendolen. i had no idea there were any flowers in the country. cecily. oh, flowers are as common here, miss fairfax, as people are in london. gwendolen. personally i cannot understand how anybody manages to exist in the country, if anybody who is anybody does. the country always bores me to death. cecily. ah! this is what the newspapers call agricultural depression, is it not? i believe the aristocracy are suffering very much from it just at present. it is almost an epidemic amongst them, i have been told. may i offer you some tea, miss fairfax? gwendolen. [with elaborate politeness.] thank you. [aside.] detestable girl! but i require tea! cecily. [sweetly.] sugar? gwendolen. [superciliously.] no, thank you. sugar is not fashionable any more. [cecily looks angrily at her, takes up the tongs and puts four lumps of sugar into the cup.] cecily. [severely.] cake or bread and butter? gwendolen. [in a bored manner.] bread and butter, please. cake is rarely seen at the best houses nowadays. cecily. [cuts a very large slice of cake, and puts it on the tray.] hand that to miss fairfax. [merriman does so, and goes out with footman. gwendolen drinks the tea and makes a grimace. puts down cup at once, reaches out her hand to the bread and butter, looks at it, and finds it is cake. rises in indignation.] gwendolen. you have filled my tea with lumps of sugar, and though i asked most distinctly for bread and butter, you have given me cake. i am known for the gentleness of my disposition, and the extraordinary sweetness of my nature, but i warn you, miss cardew, you may go too far. cecily. [rising.] to save my poor, innocent, trusting boy from the machinations of any other girl there are no lengths to which i would not go. gwendolen. from the moment i saw you i distrusted you. i felt that you were false and deceitful. i am never deceived in such matters. my first impressions of people are invariably right. cecily. it seems to me, miss fairfax, that i am trespassing on your valuable time. no doubt you have many other calls of a similar character to make in the neighbourhood. [enter jack.] gwendolen. [catching sight of him.] ernest! my own ernest! jack. gwendolen! darling! [offers to kiss her.] gwendolen. [draws back.] a moment! may i ask if you are engaged to be married to this young lady? [points to cecily.] jack. [laughing.] to dear little cecily! of course not! what could have put such an idea into your pretty little head? gwendolen. thank you. you may! [offers her cheek.] cecily. [very sweetly.] i knew there must be some misunderstanding, miss fairfax. the gentleman whose arm is at present round your waist is my guardian, mr. john worthing. gwendolen. i beg your pardon? cecily. this is uncle jack. gwendolen. [receding.] jack! oh! [enter algernon.] cecily. here is ernest. algernon. [goes straight over to cecily without noticing any one else.] my own love! [offers to kiss her.] cecily. [drawing back.] a moment, ernest! may i ask you--are you engaged to be married to this young lady? algernon. [looking round.] to what young lady? good heavens! gwendolen! cecily. yes! to good heavens, gwendolen, i mean to gwendolen. algernon. [laughing.] of course not! what could have put such an idea into your pretty little head? cecily. thank you. [presenting her cheek to be kissed.] you may. [algernon kisses her.] gwendolen. i felt there was some slight error, miss cardew. the gentleman who is now embracing you is my cousin, mr. algernon moncrieff. cecily. [breaking away from algernon.] algernon moncrieff! oh! [the two girls move towards each other and put their arms round each other's waists as if for protection.] cecily. are you called algernon? algernon. i cannot deny it. cecily. oh! gwendolen. is your name really john? jack. [standing rather proudly.] i could deny it if i liked. i could deny anything if i liked. but my name certainly is john. it has been john for years. cecily. [to gwendolen.] a gross deception has been practised on both of us. gwendolen. my poor wounded cecily! cecily. my sweet wronged gwendolen! gwendolen. [slowly and seriously.] you will call me sister, will you not? [they embrace. jack and algernon groan and walk up and down.] cecily. [rather brightly.] there is just one question i would like to be allowed to ask my guardian. gwendolen. an admirable idea! mr. worthing, there is just one question i would like to be permitted to put to you. where is your brother ernest? we are both engaged to be married to your brother ernest, so it is a matter of some importance to us to know where your brother ernest is at present. jack. [slowly and hesitatingly.] gwendolen--cecily--it is very painful for me to be forced to speak the truth. it is the first time in my life that i have ever been reduced to such a painful position, and i am really quite inexperienced in doing anything of the kind. however, i will tell you quite frankly that i have no brother ernest. i have no brother at all. i never had a brother in my life, and i certainly have not the smallest intention of ever having one in the future. cecily. [surprised.] no brother at all? jack. [cheerily.] none! gwendolen. [severely.] had you never a brother of any kind? jack. [pleasantly.] never. not even of any kind. gwendolen. i am afraid it is quite clear, cecily, that neither of us is engaged to be married to any one. cecily. it is not a very pleasant position for a young girl suddenly to find herself in. is it? gwendolen. let us go into the house. they will hardly venture to come after us there. cecily. no, men are so cowardly, aren't they? [they retire into the house with scornful looks.] jack. this ghastly state of things is what you call bunburying, i suppose? algernon. yes, and a perfectly wonderful bunbury it is. the most wonderful bunbury i have ever had in my life. jack. well, you've no right whatsoever to bunbury here. algernon. that is absurd. one has a right to bunbury anywhere one chooses. every serious bunburyist knows that. jack. serious bunburyist! good heavens! algernon. well, one must be serious about something, if one wants to have any amusement in life. i happen to be serious about bunburying. what on earth you are serious about i haven't got the remotest idea. about everything, i should fancy. you have such an absolutely trivial nature. jack. well, the only small satisfaction i have in the whole of this wretched business is that your friend bunbury is quite exploded. you won't be able to run down to the country quite so often as you used to do, dear algy. and a very good thing too. algernon. your brother is a little off colour, isn't he, dear jack? you won't be able to disappear to london quite so frequently as your wicked custom was. and not a bad thing either. jack. as for your conduct towards miss cardew, i must say that your taking in a sweet, simple, innocent girl like that is quite inexcusable. to say nothing of the fact that she is my ward. algernon. i can see no possible defence at all for your deceiving a brilliant, clever, thoroughly experienced young lady like miss fairfax. to say nothing of the fact that she is my cousin. jack. i wanted to be engaged to gwendolen, that is all. i love her. algernon. well, i simply wanted to be engaged to cecily. i adore her. jack. there is certainly no chance of your marrying miss cardew. algernon. i don't think there is much likelihood, jack, of you and miss fairfax being united. jack. well, that is no business of yours. algernon. if it was my business, i wouldn't talk about it. [begins to eat muffins.] it is very vulgar to talk about one's business. only people like stock-brokers do that, and then merely at dinner parties. jack. how can you sit there, calmly eating muffins when we are in this horrible trouble, i can't make out. you seem to me to be perfectly heartless. algernon. well, i can't eat muffins in an agitated manner. the butter would probably get on my cuffs. one should always eat muffins quite calmly. it is the only way to eat them. jack. i say it's perfectly heartless your eating muffins at all, under the circumstances. algernon. when i am in trouble, eating is the only thing that consoles me. indeed, when i am in really great trouble, as any one who knows me intimately will tell you, i refuse everything except food and drink. at the present moment i am eating muffins because i am unhappy. besides, i am particularly fond of muffins. [rising.] jack. [rising.] well, that is no reason why you should eat them all in that greedy way. [takes muffins from algernon.] algernon. [offering tea-cake.] i wish you would have tea-cake instead. i don't like tea-cake. jack. good heavens! i suppose a man may eat his own muffins in his own garden. algernon. but you have just said it was perfectly heartless to eat muffins. jack. i said it was perfectly heartless of you, under the circumstances. that is a very different thing. algernon. that may be. but the muffins are the same. [he seizes the muffin-dish from jack.] jack. algy, i wish to goodness you would go. algernon. you can't possibly ask me to go without having some dinner. it's absurd. i never go without my dinner. no one ever does, except vegetarians and people like that. besides i have just made arrangements with dr. chasuble to be christened at a quarter to six under the name of ernest. jack. my dear fellow, the sooner you give up that nonsense the better. i made arrangements this morning with dr. chasuble to be christened myself at <UNK> and i naturally will take the name of ernest. gwendolen would wish it. we can't both be christened ernest. it's absurd. besides, i have a perfect right to be christened if i like. there is no evidence at all that i have ever been christened by anybody. i should think it extremely probable i never was, and so does dr. chasuble. it is entirely different in your case. you have been christened already. algernon. yes, but i have not been christened for years. jack. yes, but you have been christened. that is the important thing. algernon. quite so. so i know my constitution can stand it. if you are not quite sure about your ever having been christened, i must say i think it rather dangerous your venturing on it now. it might make you very unwell. you can hardly have forgotten that some one very closely connected with you was very nearly carried off this week in paris by a severe chill. jack. yes, but you said yourself that a severe chill was not hereditary. algernon. it usen't to be, i know--but i daresay it is now. science is always making wonderful improvements in things. jack. [picking up the muffin-dish.] oh, that is nonsense; you are always talking nonsense. algernon. jack, you are at the muffins again! i wish you wouldn't. there are only two left. [takes them.] i told you i was particularly fond of muffins. jack. but i hate tea-cake. algernon. why on earth then do you allow tea-cake to be served up for your guests? what ideas you have of hospitality! jack. algernon! i have already told you to go. i don't want you here. why don't you go! algernon. i haven't quite finished my tea yet! and there is still one muffin left. [jack groans, and sinks into a chair. algernon still continues eating.] act drop third act scene morning-room at the manor house. [gwendolen and cecily are at the window, looking out into the garden.] gwendolen. the fact that they did not follow us at once into the house, as any one else would have done, seems to me to show that they have some sense of shame left. cecily. they have been eating muffins. that looks like repentance. gwendolen. [after a pause.] they don't seem to notice us at all. couldn't you cough? cecily. but i haven't got a cough. gwendolen. they're looking at us. what effrontery! cecily. they're approaching. that's very forward of them. gwendolen. let us preserve a dignified silence. cecily. certainly. it's the only thing to do now. [enter jack followed by algernon. they whistle some dreadful popular air from a british opera.] gwendolen. this dignified silence seems to produce an unpleasant effect. cecily. a most distasteful one. gwendolen. but we will not be the first to speak. cecily. certainly not. gwendolen. mr. worthing, i have something very particular to ask you. much depends on your reply. cecily. gwendolen, your common sense is invaluable. mr. moncrieff, kindly answer me the following question. why did you pretend to be my guardian's brother? algernon. in order that i might have an opportunity of meeting you. cecily. [to gwendolen.] that certainly seems a satisfactory explanation, does it not? gwendolen. yes, dear, if you can believe him. cecily. i don't. but that does not affect the wonderful beauty of his answer. gwendolen. true. in matters of grave importance, style, not sincerity is the vital thing. mr. worthing, what explanation can you offer to me for pretending to have a brother? was it in order that you might have an opportunity of coming up to town to see me as often as possible? jack. can you doubt it, miss fairfax? gwendolen. i have the gravest doubts upon the subject. but i intend to crush them. this is not the moment for german scepticism. [moving to cecily.] their explanations appear to be quite satisfactory, especially mr. worthing's. that seems to me to have the stamp of truth upon it. cecily. i am more than content with what mr. moncrieff said. his voice alone inspires one with absolute credulity. gwendolen. then you think we should forgive them? cecily. yes. i mean no. gwendolen. true! i had forgotten. there are principles at stake that one cannot surrender. which of us should tell them? the task is not a pleasant one. cecily. could we not both speak at the same time? gwendolen. an excellent idea! i nearly always speak at the same time as other people. will you take the time from me? cecily. certainly. [gwendolen beats time with uplifted finger.] gwendolen and cecily [speaking together.] your christian names are still an insuperable barrier. that is all! jack and algernon [speaking together.] our christian names! is that all? but we are going to be christened this afternoon. gwendolen. [to jack.] for my sake you are prepared to do this terrible thing? jack. i am. cecily. [to algernon.] to please me you are ready to face this fearful ordeal? algernon. i am! gwendolen. how absurd to talk of the equality of the sexes! where questions of self-sacrifice are concerned, men are infinitely beyond us. jack. we are. [clasps hands with algernon.] cecily. they have moments of physical courage of which we women know absolutely nothing. gwendolen. [to jack.] darling! algernon. [to cecily.] darling! [they fall into each other's arms.] [enter merriman. when he enters he coughs loudly, seeing the situation.] merriman. ahem! ahem! lady bracknell! jack. good heavens! [enter lady bracknell. the couples separate in alarm. exit merriman.] lady bracknell. gwendolen! what does this mean? gwendolen. merely that i am engaged to be married to mr. worthing, mamma. lady bracknell. come here. sit down. sit down immediately. hesitation of any kind is a sign of mental decay in the young, of physical weakness in the old. [turns to jack.] apprised, sir, of my daughter's sudden flight by her trusty maid, whose confidence i purchased by means of a small coin, i followed her at once by a luggage train. her unhappy father is, i am glad to say, under the impression that she is attending a more than usually lengthy lecture by the university extension scheme on the influence of a permanent income on thought. i do not propose to undeceive him. indeed i have never undeceived him on any question. i would consider it wrong. but of course, you will clearly understand that all communication between yourself and my daughter must cease immediately from this moment. on this point, as indeed on all points, i am firm. jack. i am engaged to be married to gwendolen, lady bracknell! lady bracknell. you are nothing of the kind, sir. and now, as regards algernon! . . . algernon! algernon. yes, aunt augusta. lady bracknell. may i ask if it is in this house that your invalid friend mr. bunbury resides? algernon. [stammering.] oh! no! bunbury doesn't live here. bunbury is somewhere else at present. in fact, bunbury is dead. lady bracknell. dead! when did mr. bunbury die? his death must have been extremely sudden. algernon. [airily.] oh! i killed bunbury this afternoon. i mean poor bunbury died this afternoon. lady bracknell. what did he die of? algernon. bunbury? oh, he was quite exploded. lady bracknell. exploded! was he the victim of a revolutionary outrage? i was not aware that mr. bunbury was interested in social legislation. if so, he is well punished for his morbidity. algernon. my dear aunt augusta, i mean he was found out! the doctors found out that bunbury could not live, that is what i mean--so bunbury died. lady bracknell. he seems to have had great confidence in the opinion of his physicians. i am glad, however, that he made up his mind at the last to some definite course of action, and acted under proper medical advice. and now that we have finally got rid of this mr. bunbury, may i ask, mr. worthing, who is that young person whose hand my nephew algernon is now holding in what seems to me a peculiarly unnecessary manner? jack. that lady is miss cecily cardew, my ward. [lady bracknell bows coldly to cecily.] algernon. i am engaged to be married to cecily, aunt augusta. lady bracknell. i beg your pardon? cecily. mr. moncrieff and i are engaged to be married, lady bracknell. lady bracknell. [with a shiver, crossing to the sofa and sitting down.] i do not know whether there is anything peculiarly exciting in the air of this particular part of hertfordshire, but the number of engagements that go on seems to me considerably above the proper average that statistics have laid down for our guidance. i think some preliminary inquiry on my part would not be out of place. mr. worthing, is miss cardew at all connected with any of the larger railway stations in london? i merely desire information. until yesterday i had no idea that there were any families or persons whose origin was a terminus. [jack looks perfectly furious, but restrains himself.] jack. [in a clear, cold voice.] miss cardew is the grand-daughter of the late mr. thomas cardew of <UNK> belgrave square, s.w.; gervase park, dorking, surrey; and the sporran, fifeshire, n.b. lady bracknell. that sounds not unsatisfactory. three addresses always inspire confidence, even in tradesmen. but what proof have i of their authenticity? jack. i have carefully preserved the court guides of the period. they are open to your inspection, lady bracknell. lady bracknell. [grimly.] i have known strange errors in that publication. jack. miss cardew's family solicitors are messrs. markby, markby, and markby. lady bracknell. markby, markby, and markby? a firm of the very highest position in their profession. indeed i am told that one of the mr. markby's is occasionally to be seen at dinner parties. so far i am satisfied. jack. [very irritably.] how extremely kind of you, lady bracknell! i have also in my possession, you will be pleased to hear, certificates of miss cardew's birth, baptism, whooping cough, registration, vaccination, confirmation, and the measles; both the german and the english variety. lady bracknell. ah! a life crowded with incident, i see; though perhaps somewhat too exciting for a young girl. i am not myself in favour of premature experiences. [rises, looks at her watch.] gwendolen! the time approaches for our departure. we have not a moment to lose. as a matter of form, mr. worthing, i had better ask you if miss cardew has any little fortune? jack. oh! about a hundred and thirty thousand pounds in the funds. that is all. goodbye, lady bracknell. so pleased to have seen you. lady bracknell. [sitting down again.] a moment, mr. worthing. a hundred and thirty thousand pounds! and in the funds! miss cardew seems to me a most attractive young lady, now that i look at her. few girls of the present day have any really solid qualities, any of the qualities that last, and improve with time. we live, i regret to say, in an age of surfaces. [to cecily.] come over here, dear. [cecily goes across.] pretty child! your dress is sadly simple, and your hair seems almost as nature might have left it. but we can soon alter all that. a thoroughly experienced french maid produces a really marvellous result in a very brief space of time. i remember recommending one to young lady lancing, and after three months her own husband did not know her. jack. and after six months nobody knew her. lady bracknell. [glares at jack for a few moments. then bends, with a practised smile, to cecily.] kindly turn round, sweet child. [cecily turns completely round.] no, the side view is what i want. [cecily presents her profile.] yes, quite as i expected. there are distinct social possibilities in your profile. the two weak points in our age are its want of principle and its want of profile. the chin a little higher, dear. style largely depends on the way the chin is worn. they are worn very high, just at present. algernon! algernon. yes, aunt augusta! lady bracknell. there are distinct social possibilities in miss cardew's profile. algernon. cecily is the sweetest, dearest, prettiest girl in the whole world. and i don't care twopence about social possibilities. lady bracknell. never speak disrespectfully of society, algernon. only people who can't get into it do that. [to cecily.] dear child, of course you know that algernon has nothing but his debts to depend upon. but i do not approve of mercenary marriages. when i married lord bracknell i had no fortune of any kind. but i never dreamed for a moment of allowing that to stand in my way. well, i suppose i must give my consent. algernon. thank you, aunt augusta. lady bracknell. cecily, you may kiss me! cecily. [kisses her.] thank you, lady bracknell. lady bracknell. you may also address me as aunt augusta for the future. cecily. thank you, aunt augusta. lady bracknell. the marriage, i think, had better take place quite soon. algernon. thank you, aunt augusta. cecily. thank you, aunt augusta. lady bracknell. to speak frankly, i am not in favour of long engagements. they give people the opportunity of finding out each other's character before marriage, which i think is never advisable. jack. i beg your pardon for interrupting you, lady bracknell, but this engagement is quite out of the question. i am miss cardew's guardian, and she cannot marry without my consent until she comes of age. that consent i absolutely decline to give. lady bracknell. upon what grounds may i ask? algernon is an extremely, i may almost say an ostentatiously, eligible young man. he has nothing, but he looks everything. what more can one desire? jack. it pains me very much to have to speak frankly to you, lady bracknell, about your nephew, but the fact is that i do not approve at all of his moral character. i suspect him of being untruthful. [algernon and cecily look at him in indignant amazement.] lady bracknell. untruthful! my nephew algernon? impossible! he is an oxonian. jack. i fear there can be no possible doubt about the matter. this afternoon during my temporary absence in london on an important question of romance, he obtained admission to my house by means of the false pretence of being my brother. under an assumed name he drank, i've just been informed by my butler, an entire pint bottle of my perrier-jouet, brut, <UNK> wine i was specially reserving for myself. continuing his disgraceful deception, he succeeded in the course of the afternoon in alienating the affections of my only ward. he subsequently stayed to tea, and devoured every single muffin. and what makes his conduct all the more heartless is, that he was perfectly well aware from the first that i have no brother, that i never had a brother, and that i don't intend to have a brother, not even of any kind. i distinctly told him so myself yesterday afternoon. lady bracknell. ahem! mr. worthing, after careful consideration i have decided entirely to overlook my nephew's conduct to you. jack. that is very generous of you, lady bracknell. my own decision, however, is unalterable. i decline to give my consent. lady bracknell. [to cecily.] come here, sweet child. [cecily goes over.] how old are you, dear? cecily. well, i am really only eighteen, but i always admit to twenty when i go to evening parties. lady bracknell. you are perfectly right in making some slight alteration. indeed, no woman should ever be quite accurate about her age. it looks so calculating . . . [in a meditative manner.] eighteen, but admitting to twenty at evening parties. well, it will not be very long before you are of age and free from the restraints of tutelage. so i don't think your guardian's consent is, after all, a matter of any importance. jack. pray excuse me, lady bracknell, for interrupting you again, but it is only fair to tell you that according to the terms of her grandfather's will miss cardew does not come legally of age till she is thirty-five. lady bracknell. that does not seem to me to be a grave objection. thirty- five is a very attractive age. london society is full of women of the very highest birth who have, of their own free choice, remained thirty- five for years. lady dumbleton is an instance in point. to my own knowledge she has been thirty-five ever since she arrived at the age of forty, which was many years ago now. i see no reason why our dear cecily should not be even still more attractive at the age you mention than she is at present. there will be a large accumulation of property. cecily. algy, could you wait for me till i was thirty-five? algernon. of course i could, cecily. you know i could. cecily. yes, i felt it instinctively, but i couldn't wait all that time. i hate waiting even five minutes for anybody. it always makes me rather cross. i am not punctual myself, i know, but i do like punctuality in others, and waiting, even to be married, is quite out of the question. algernon. then what is to be done, cecily? cecily. i don't know, mr. moncrieff. lady bracknell. my dear mr. worthing, as miss cardew states positively that she cannot wait till she is thirty-five--a remark which i am bound to say seems to me to show a somewhat impatient nature--i would beg of you to reconsider your decision. jack. but my dear lady bracknell, the matter is entirely in your own hands. the moment you consent to my marriage with gwendolen, i will most gladly allow your nephew to form an alliance with my ward. lady bracknell. [rising and drawing herself up.] you must be quite aware that what you propose is out of the question. jack. then a passionate celibacy is all that any of us can look forward to. lady bracknell. that is not the destiny i propose for gwendolen. algernon, of course, can choose for himself. [pulls out her watch.] come, dear, [gwendolen rises] we have already missed five, if not six, trains. to miss any more might expose us to comment on the platform. [enter dr. chasuble.] chasuble. everything is quite ready for the christenings. lady bracknell. the christenings, sir! is not that somewhat premature? chasuble. [looking rather puzzled, and pointing to jack and algernon.] both these gentlemen have expressed a desire for immediate baptism. lady bracknell. at their age? the idea is grotesque and irreligious! algernon, i forbid you to be baptized. i will not hear of such excesses. lord bracknell would be highly displeased if he learned that that was the way in which you wasted your time and money. chasuble. am i to understand then that there are to be no christenings at all this afternoon? jack. i don't think that, as things are now, it would be of much practical value to either of us, dr. chasuble. chasuble. i am grieved to hear such sentiments from you, mr. worthing. they savour of the heretical views of the anabaptists, views that i have completely refuted in four of my unpublished sermons. however, as your present mood seems to be one peculiarly secular, i will return to the church at once. indeed, i have just been informed by the pew-opener that for the last hour and a half miss prism has been waiting for me in the vestry. lady bracknell. [starting.] miss prism! did i hear you mention a miss prism? chasuble. yes, lady bracknell. i am on my way to join her. lady bracknell. pray allow me to detain you for a moment. this matter may prove to be one of vital importance to lord bracknell and myself. is this miss prism a female of repellent aspect, remotely connected with education? chasuble. [somewhat indignantly.] she is the most cultivated of ladies, and the very picture of respectability. lady bracknell. it is obviously the same person. may i ask what position she holds in your household? chasuble. [severely.] i am a celibate, madam. jack. [interposing.] miss prism, lady bracknell, has been for the last three years miss cardew's esteemed governess and valued companion. lady bracknell. in spite of what i hear of her, i must see her at once. let her be sent for. chasuble. [looking off.] she approaches; she is nigh. [enter miss prism hurriedly.] miss prism. i was told you expected me in the vestry, dear canon. i have been waiting for you there for an hour and three-quarters. [catches sight of lady bracknell, who has fixed her with a stony glare. miss prism grows pale and quails. she looks anxiously round as if desirous to escape.] lady bracknell. [in a severe, judicial voice.] prism! [miss prism bows her head in shame.] come here, prism! [miss prism approaches in a humble manner.] prism! where is that baby? [general consternation. the canon starts back in horror. algernon and jack pretend to be anxious to shield cecily and gwendolen from hearing the details of a terrible public scandal.] twenty-eight years ago, prism, you left lord bracknell's house, number <UNK> upper grosvenor street, in charge of a perambulator that contained a baby of the male sex. you never returned. a few weeks later, through the elaborate investigations of the metropolitan police, the perambulator was discovered at midnight, standing by itself in a remote corner of bayswater. it contained the manuscript of a three-volume novel of more than usually revolting sentimentality. [miss prism starts in involuntary indignation.] but the baby was not there! [every one looks at miss prism.] prism! where is that baby? [a pause.] miss prism. lady bracknell, i admit with shame that i do not know. i only wish i did. the plain facts of the case are these. on the morning of the day you mention, a day that is for ever branded on my memory, i prepared as usual to take the baby out in its perambulator. i had also with me a somewhat old, but capacious hand-bag in which i had intended to place the manuscript of a work of fiction that i had written during my few unoccupied hours. in a moment of mental abstraction, for which i never can forgive myself, i deposited the manuscript in the basinette, and placed the baby in the hand-bag. jack. [who has been listening attentively.] but where did you deposit the hand-bag? miss prism. do not ask me, mr. worthing. jack. miss prism, this is a matter of no small importance to me. i insist on knowing where you deposited the hand-bag that contained that infant. miss prism. i left it in the cloak-room of one of the larger railway stations in london. jack. what railway station? miss prism. [quite crushed.] victoria. the brighton line. [sinks into a chair.] jack. i must retire to my room for a moment. gwendolen, wait here for me. gwendolen. if you are not too long, i will wait here for you all my life. [exit jack in great excitement.] chasuble. what do you think this means, lady bracknell? lady bracknell. i dare not even suspect, dr. chasuble. i need hardly tell you that in families of high position strange coincidences are not supposed to occur. they are hardly considered the thing. [noises heard overhead as if some one was throwing trunks about. every one looks up.] cecily. uncle jack seems strangely agitated. chasuble. your guardian has a very emotional nature. lady bracknell. this noise is extremely unpleasant. it sounds as if he was having an argument. i dislike arguments of any kind. they are always vulgar, and often convincing. chasuble. [looking up.] it has stopped now. [the noise is redoubled.] lady bracknell. i wish he would arrive at some conclusion. gwendolen. this suspense is terrible. i hope it will last. [enter jack with a hand-bag of black leather in his hand.] jack. [rushing over to miss prism.] is this the hand-bag, miss prism? examine it carefully before you speak. the happiness of more than one life depends on your answer. miss prism. [calmly.] it seems to be mine. yes, here is the injury it received through the upsetting of a gower street omnibus in younger and happier days. here is the stain on the lining caused by the explosion of a temperance beverage, an incident that occurred at leamington. and here, on the lock, are my initials. i had forgotten that in an extravagant mood i had had them placed there. the bag is undoubtedly mine. i am delighted to have it so unexpectedly restored to me. it has been a great inconvenience being without it all these years. jack. [in a pathetic voice.] miss prism, more is restored to you than this hand-bag. i was the baby you placed in it. miss prism. [amazed.] you? jack. [embracing her.] yes . . . mother! miss prism. [recoiling in indignant astonishment.] mr. worthing! i am unmarried! jack. unmarried! i do not deny that is a serious blow. but after all, who has the right to cast a stone against one who has suffered? cannot repentance wipe out an act of folly? why should there be one law for men, and another for women? mother, i forgive you. [tries to embrace her again.] miss prism. [still more indignant.] mr. worthing, there is some error. [pointing to lady bracknell.] there is the lady who can tell you who you really are. jack. [after a pause.] lady bracknell, i hate to seem inquisitive, but would you kindly inform me who i am? lady bracknell. i am afraid that the news i have to give you will not altogether please you. you are the son of my poor sister, mrs. moncrieff, and consequently algernon's elder brother. jack. algy's elder brother! then i have a brother after all. i knew i had a brother! i always said i had a brother! cecily,--how could you have ever doubted that i had a brother? [seizes hold of algernon.] dr. chasuble, my unfortunate brother. miss prism, my unfortunate brother. gwendolen, my unfortunate brother. algy, you young scoundrel, you will have to treat me with more respect in the future. you have never behaved to me like a brother in all your life. algernon. well, not till to-day, old boy, i admit. i did my best, however, though i was out of practice. [shakes hands.] gwendolen. [to jack.] my own! but what own are you? what is your christian name, now that you have become some one else? jack. good heavens! . . . i had quite forgotten that point. your decision on the subject of my name is irrevocable, i suppose? gwendolen. i never change, except in my affections. cecily. what a noble nature you have, gwendolen! jack. then the question had better be cleared up at once. aunt augusta, a moment. at the time when miss prism left me in the hand-bag, had i been christened already? lady bracknell. every luxury that money could buy, including christening, had been lavished on you by your fond and doting parents. jack. then i was christened! that is settled. now, what name was i given? let me know the worst. lady bracknell. being the eldest son you were naturally christened after your father. jack. [irritably.] yes, but what was my father's christian name? lady bracknell. [meditatively.] i cannot at the present moment recall what the general's christian name was. but i have no doubt he had one. he was eccentric, i admit. but only in later years. and that was the result of the indian climate, and marriage, and indigestion, and other things of that kind. jack. algy! can't you recollect what our father's christian name was? algernon. my dear boy, we were never even on speaking terms. he died before i was a year old. jack. his name would appear in the army lists of the period, i suppose, aunt augusta? lady bracknell. the general was essentially a man of peace, except in his domestic life. but i have no doubt his name would appear in any military directory. jack. the army lists of the last forty years are here. these delightful records should have been my constant study. [rushes to bookcase and tears the books out.] m. generals . . . mallam, maxbohm, magley, what ghastly names they have--markby, migsby, mobbs, moncrieff! lieutenant <UNK> captain, lieutenant-colonel, colonel, general <UNK> christian names, ernest john. [puts book very quietly down and speaks quite calmly.] i always told you, gwendolen, my name was ernest, didn't i? well, it is ernest after all. i mean it naturally is ernest. lady bracknell. yes, i remember now that the general was called ernest, i knew i had some particular reason for disliking the name. gwendolen. ernest! my own ernest! i felt from the first that you could have no other name! jack. gwendolen, it is a terrible thing for a man to find out suddenly that all his life he has been speaking nothing but the truth. can you forgive me? gwendolen. i can. for i feel that you are sure to change. jack. my own one! chasuble. [to miss prism.] laetitia! [embraces her] miss prism. [enthusiastically.] frederick! at last! algernon. cecily! [embraces her.] at last! jack. gwendolen! [embraces her.] at last! lady bracknell. my nephew, you seem to be displaying signs of triviality. jack. on the contrary, aunt augusta, i've now realised for the first time in my life the vital importance of being earnest. tableau

<|EndOfText|>

de profundis . . . suffering is one very long moment. we cannot divide it by seasons. we can only record its moods, and chronicle their return. with us time itself does not progress. it revolves. it seems to circle round one centre of pain. the paralysing immobility of a life every circumstance of which is regulated after an unchangeable pattern, so that we eat and drink and lie down and pray, or kneel at least for prayer, according to the inflexible laws of an iron formula: this immobile quality, that makes each dreadful day in the very minutest detail like its brother, seems to communicate itself to those external forces the very essence of whose existence is ceaseless change. of seed-time or harvest, of the reapers bending over the corn, or the grape gatherers threading through the vines, of the grass in the orchard made white with broken blossoms or strewn with fallen fruit: of these we know nothing and can know nothing. for us there is only one season, the season of sorrow. the very sun and moon seem taken from us. outside, the day may be blue and gold, but the light that creeps down through the thickly-muffled glass of the small iron-barred window beneath which one sits is grey and niggard. it is always twilight in one's cell, as it is always twilight in one's heart. and in the sphere of thought, no less than in the sphere of time, motion is no more. the thing that you personally have long ago forgotten, or can easily forget, is happening to me now, and will happen to me again to- morrow. remember this, and you will be able to understand a little of why i am writing, and in this manner writing. . . . a week later, i am transferred here. three more months go over and my mother dies. no one knew how deeply i loved and honoured her. her death was terrible to me; but i, once a lord of language, have no words in which to express my anguish and my shame. she and my father had bequeathed me a name they had made noble and honoured, not merely in literature, art, archaeology, and science, but in the public history of my own country, in its evolution as a nation. i had disgraced that name eternally. i had made it a low by-word among low people. i had dragged it through the very mire. i had given it to brutes that they might make it brutal, and to fools that they might turn it into a synonym for folly. what i suffered then, and still suffer, is not for pen to write or paper to record. my wife, always kind and gentle to me, rather than that i should hear the news from indifferent lips, travelled, ill as she was, all the way from genoa to england to break to me herself the tidings of so irreparable, so irremediable, a loss. messages of sympathy reached me from all who had still affection for me. even people who had not known me personally, hearing that a new sorrow had broken into my life, wrote to ask that some expression of their condolence should be conveyed to me. . . . three months go over. the calendar of my daily conduct and labour that hangs on the outside of my cell door, with my name and sentence written upon it, tells me that it is may. . . . prosperity, pleasure and success, may be rough of grain and common in fibre, but sorrow is the most sensitive of all created things. there is nothing that stirs in the whole world of thought to which sorrow does not vibrate in terrible and exquisite pulsation. the thin beaten-out leaf of tremulous gold that chronicles the direction of forces the eye cannot see is in comparison coarse. it is a wound that bleeds when any hand but that of love touches it, and even then must bleed again, though not in pain. where there is sorrow there is holy ground. some day people will realise what that means. they will know nothing of life till they do,--and natures like his can realise it. when i was brought down from my prison to the court of bankruptcy, between two policemen,--waited in the long dreary corridor that, before the whole crowd, whom an action so sweet and simple hushed into silence, he might gravely raise his hat to me, as, handcuffed and with bowed head, i passed him by. men have gone to heaven for smaller things than that. it was in this spirit, and with this mode of love, that the saints knelt down to wash the feet of the poor, or stooped to kiss the leper on the cheek. i have never said one single word to him about what he did. i do not know to the present moment whether he is aware that i was even conscious of his action. it is not a thing for which one can render formal thanks in formal words. i store it in the treasure-house of my heart. i keep it there as a secret debt that i am glad to think i can never possibly repay. it is embalmed and kept sweet by the myrrh and cassia of many tears. when wisdom has been profitless to me, philosophy barren, and the proverbs and phrases of those who have sought to give me consolation as dust and ashes in my mouth, the memory of that little, lovely, silent act of love has unsealed for me all the wells of pity: made the desert blossom like a rose, and brought me out of the bitterness of lonely exile into harmony with the wounded, broken, and great heart of the world. when people are able to understand, not merely how beautiful ---'s action was, but why it meant so much to me, and always will mean so much, then, perhaps, they will realise how and in what spirit they should approach me. . . . the poor are wise, more charitable, more kind, more sensitive than we are. in their eyes prison is a tragedy in a man's life, a misfortune, a casuality, something that calls for sympathy in others. they speak of one who is in prison as of one who is 'in trouble' simply. it is the phrase they always use, and the expression has the perfect wisdom of love in it. with people of our own rank it is different. with us, prison makes a man a pariah. i, and such as i am, have hardly any right to air and sun. our presence taints the pleasures of others. we are unwelcome when we reappear. to revisit the glimpses of the moon is not for us. our very children are taken away. those lovely links with humanity are broken. we are doomed to be solitary, while our sons still live. we are denied the one thing that might heal us and keep us, that might bring balm to the bruised heart, and peace to the soul in pain. . . . i must say to myself that i ruined myself, and that nobody great or small can be ruined except by his own hand. i am quite ready to say so. i am trying to say so, though they may not think it at the present moment. this pitiless indictment i bring without pity against myself. terrible as was what the world did to me, what i did to myself was far more terrible still. i was a man who stood in symbolic relations to the art and culture of my age. i had realised this for myself at the very dawn of my manhood, and had forced my age to realise it afterwards. few men hold such a position in their own lifetime, and have it so acknowledged. it is usually discerned, if discerned at all, by the historian, or the critic, long after both the man and his age have passed away. with me it was different. i felt it myself, and made others feel it. byron was a symbolic figure, but his relations were to the passion of his age and its weariness of passion. mine were to something more noble, more permanent, of more vital issue, of larger scope. the gods had given me almost everything. but i let myself be lured into long spells of senseless and sensual ease. i amused myself with being a _flaneur_, a dandy, a man of fashion. i surrounded myself with the smaller natures and the meaner minds. i became the spendthrift of my own genius, and to waste an eternal youth gave me a curious joy. tired of being on the heights, i deliberately went to the depths in the search for new sensation. what the paradox was to me in the sphere of thought, perversity became to me in the sphere of passion. desire, at the end, was a malady, or a madness, or both. i grew careless of the lives of others. i took pleasure where it pleased me, and passed on. i forgot that every little action of the common day makes or unmakes character, and that therefore what one has done in the secret chamber one has some day to cry aloud on the housetop. i ceased to be lord over myself. i was no longer the captain of my soul, and did not know it. i allowed pleasure to dominate me. i ended in horrible disgrace. there is only one thing for me now, absolute humility. i have lain in prison for nearly two years. out of my nature has come wild despair; an abandonment to grief that was piteous even to look at; terrible and impotent rage; bitterness and scorn; anguish that wept aloud; misery that could find no voice; sorrow that was dumb. i have passed through every possible mood of suffering. better than wordsworth himself i know what wordsworth meant when he said-- 'suffering is permanent, obscure, and dark and has the nature of infinity.' but while there were times when i rejoiced in the idea that my sufferings were to be endless, i could not bear them to be without meaning. now i find hidden somewhere away in my nature something that tells me that nothing in the whole world is meaningless, and suffering least of all. that something hidden away in my nature, like a treasure in a field, is humility. it is the last thing left in me, and the best: the ultimate discovery at which i have arrived, the starting-point for a fresh development. it has come to me right out of myself, so i know that it has come at the proper time. it could not have come before, nor later. had any one told me of it, i would have rejected it. had it been brought to me, i would have refused it. as i found it, i want to keep it. i must do so. it is the one thing that has in it the elements of life, of a new life, _vita nuova_ for me. of all things it is the strangest. one cannot acquire it, except by surrendering everything that one has. it is only when one has lost all things, that one knows that one possesses it. now i have realised that it is in me, i see quite clearly what i ought to do; in fact, must do. and when i use such a phrase as that, i need not say that i am not alluding to any external sanction or command. i admit none. i am far more of an individualist than i ever was. nothing seems to me of the smallest value except what one gets out of oneself. my nature is seeking a fresh mode of self-realisation. that is all i am concerned with. and the first thing that i have got to do is to free myself from any possible bitterness of feeling against the world. i am completely penniless, and absolutely homeless. yet there are worse things in the world than that. i am quite candid when i say that rather than go out from this prison with bitterness in my heart against the world, i would gladly and readily beg my bread from door to door. if i got nothing from the house of the rich i would get something at the house of the poor. those who have much are often greedy; those who have little always share. i would not a bit mind sleeping in the cool grass in summer, and when winter came on sheltering myself by the warm close-thatched rick, or under the penthouse of a great barn, provided i had love in my heart. the external things of life seem to me now of no importance at all. you can see to what intensity of individualism i have arrived--or am arriving rather, for the journey is long, and 'where i walk there are thorns.' of course i know that to ask alms on the highway is not to be my lot, and that if ever i lie in the cool grass at night-time it will be to write sonnets to the moon. when i go out of prison, r--- will be waiting for me on the other side of the big iron-studded gate, and he is the symbol, not merely of his own affection, but of the affection of many others besides. i believe i am to have enough to live on for about eighteen months at any rate, so that if i may not write beautiful books, i may at least read beautiful books; and what joy can be greater? after that, i hope to be able to recreate my creative faculty. but were things different: had i not a friend left in the world; were there not a single house open to me in pity; had i to accept the wallet and ragged cloak of sheer penury: as long as i am free from all resentment, hardness and scorn, i would be able to face the life with much more calm and confidence than i would were my body in purple and fine linen, and the soul within me sick with hate. and i really shall have no difficulty. when you really want love you will find it waiting for you. i need not say that my task does not end there. it would be comparatively easy if it did. there is much more before me. i have hills far steeper to climb, valleys much darker to pass through. and i have to get it all out of myself. neither religion, morality, nor reason can help me at all. morality does not help me. i am a born antinomian. i am one of those who are made for exceptions, not for laws. but while i see that there is nothing wrong in what one does, i see that there is something wrong in what one becomes. it is well to have learned that. religion does not help me. the faith that others give to what is unseen, i give to what one can touch, and look at. my gods dwell in temples made with hands; and within the circle of actual experience is my creed made perfect and complete: too complete, it may be, for like many or all of those who have placed their heaven in this earth, i have found in it not merely the beauty of heaven, but the horror of hell also. when i think about religion at all, i feel as if i would like to found an order for those who _cannot_ believe: the confraternity of the faithless, one might call it, where on an altar, on which no taper burned, a priest, in whose heart peace had no dwelling, might celebrate with unblessed bread and a chalice empty of wine. every thing to be true must become a religion. and agnosticism should have its ritual no less than faith. it has sown its martyrs, it should reap its saints, and praise god daily for having hidden himself from man. but whether it be faith or agnosticism, it must be nothing external to me. its symbols must be of my own creating. only that is spiritual which makes its own form. if i may not find its secret within myself, i shall never find it: if i have not got it already, it will never come to me. reason does not help me. it tells me that the laws under which i am convicted are wrong and unjust laws, and the system under which i have suffered a wrong and unjust system. but, somehow, i have got to make both of these things just and right to me. and exactly as in art one is only concerned with what a particular thing is at a particular moment to oneself, so it is also in the ethical evolution of one's character. i have got to make everything that has happened to me good for me. the plank bed, the loathsome food, the hard ropes shredded into oakum till one's finger-tips grow dull with pain, the menial offices with which each day begins and finishes, the harsh orders that routine seems to necessitate, the dreadful dress that makes sorrow grotesque to look at, the silence, the solitude, the shame--each and all of these things i have to transform into a spiritual experience. there is not a single degradation of the body which i must not try and make into a spiritualising of the soul. i want to get to the point when i shall be able to say quite simply, and without affectation that the two great turning-points in my life were when my father sent me to oxford, and when society sent me to prison. i will not say that prison is the best thing that could have happened to me: for that phrase would savour of too great bitterness towards myself. i would sooner say, or hear it said of me, that i was so typical a child of my age, that in my perversity, and for that perversity's sake, i turned the good things of my life to evil, and the evil things of my life to good. what is said, however, by myself or by others, matters little. the important thing, the thing that lies before me, the thing that i have to do, if the brief remainder of my days is not to be maimed, marred, and incomplete, is to absorb into my nature all that has been done to me, to make it part of me, to accept it without complaint, fear, or reluctance. the supreme vice is shallowness. whatever is realised is right. when first i was put into prison some people advised me to try and forget who i was. it was ruinous advice. it is only by realising what i am that i have found comfort of any kind. now i am advised by others to try on my release to forget that i have ever been in a prison at all. i know that would be equally fatal. it would mean that i would always be haunted by an intolerable sense of disgrace, and that those things that are meant for me as much as for anybody else--the beauty of the sun and moon, the pageant of the seasons, the music of daybreak and the silence of great nights, the rain falling through the leaves, or the dew creeping over the grass and making it silver--would all be tainted for me, and lose their healing power, and their power of communicating joy. to regret one's own experiences is to arrest one's own development. to deny one's own experiences is to put a lie into the lips of one's own life. it is no less than a denial of the soul. for just as the body absorbs things of all kinds, things common and unclean no less than those that the priest or a vision has cleansed, and converts them into swiftness or strength, into the play of beautiful muscles and the moulding of fair flesh, into the curves and colours of the hair, the lips, the eye; so the soul in its turn has its nutritive functions also, and can transform into noble moods of thought and passions of high import what in itself is base, cruel and degrading; nay, more, may find in these its most august modes of assertion, and can often reveal itself most perfectly through what was intended to desecrate or destroy. the fact of my having been the common prisoner of a common gaol i must frankly accept, and, curious as it may seem, one of the things i shall have to teach myself is not to be ashamed of it. i must accept it as a punishment, and if one is ashamed of having been punished, one might just as well never have been punished at all. of course there are many things of which i was convicted that i had not done, but then there are many things of which i was convicted that i had done, and a still greater number of things in my life for which i was never indicted at all. and as the gods are strange, and punish us for what is good and humane in us as much as for what is evil and perverse, i must accept the fact that one is punished for the good as well as for the evil that one does. i have no doubt that it is quite right one should be. it helps one, or should help one, to realise both, and not to be too conceited about either. and if i then am not ashamed of my punishment, as i hope not to be, i shall be able to think, and walk, and live with freedom. many men on their release carry their prison about with them into the air, and hide it as a secret disgrace in their hearts, and at length, like poor poisoned things, creep into some hole and die. it is wretched that they should have to do so, and it is wrong, terribly wrong, of society that it should force them to do so. society takes upon itself the right to inflict appalling punishment on the individual, but it also has the supreme vice of shallowness, and fails to realise what it has done. when the man's punishment is over, it leaves him to himself; that is to say, it abandons him at the very moment when its highest duty towards him begins. it is really ashamed of its own actions, and shuns those whom it has punished, as people shun a creditor whose debt they cannot pay, or one on whom they have inflicted an irreparable, an irremediable wrong. i can claim on my side that if i realise what i have suffered, society should realise what it has inflicted on me; and that there should be no bitterness or hate on either side. of course i know that from one point of view things will be made different for me than for others; must indeed, by the very nature of the case, be made so. the poor thieves and outcasts who are imprisoned here with me are in many respects more fortunate than i am. the little way in grey city or green field that saw their sin is small; to find those who know nothing of what they have done they need go no further than a bird might fly between the twilight and the dawn; but for me the world is shrivelled to a handsbreadth, and everywhere i turn my name is written on the rocks in lead. for i have come, not from obscurity into the momentary notoriety of crime, but from a sort of eternity of fame to a sort of eternity of infamy, and sometimes seem to myself to have shown, if indeed it required showing, that between the famous and the infamous there is but one step, if as much as one. still, in the very fact that people will recognise me wherever i go, and know all about my life, as far as its follies go, i can discern something good for me. it will force on me the necessity of again asserting myself as an artist, and as soon as i possibly can. if i can produce only one beautiful work of art i shall be able to rob malice of its venom, and cowardice of its sneer, and to pluck out the tongue of scorn by the roots. and if life be, as it surely is, a problem to me, i am no less a problem to life. people must adopt some attitude towards me, and so pass judgment, both on themselves and me. i need not say i am not talking of particular individuals. the only people i would care to be with now are artists and people who have suffered: those who know what beauty is, and those who know what sorrow is: nobody else interests me. nor am i making any demands on life. in all that i have said i am simply concerned with my own mental attitude towards life as a whole; and i feel that not to be ashamed of having been punished is one of the first points i must attain to, for the sake of my own perfection, and because i am so imperfect. then i must learn how to be happy. once i knew it, or thought i knew it, by instinct. it was always springtime once in my heart. my temperament was akin to joy. i filled my life to the very brim with pleasure, as one might fill a cup to the very brim with wine. now i am approaching life from a completely new standpoint, and even to conceive happiness is often extremely difficult for me. i remember during my first term at oxford reading in pater's _renaissance_--that book which has had such strange influence over my life--how dante places low in the inferno those who wilfully live in sadness; and going to the college library and turning to the passage in the _divine comedy_ where beneath the dreary marsh lie those who were 'sullen in the sweet air,' saying for ever and ever through their sighs-- 'tristi fummo nell aer dolce che dal sol s'allegra.' i knew the church condemned _accidia_, but the whole idea seemed to me quite fantastic, just the sort of sin, i fancied, a priest who knew nothing about real life would invent. nor could i understand how dante, who says that 'sorrow remarries us to god,' could have been so harsh to those who were enamoured of melancholy, if any such there really were. i had no idea that some day this would become to me one of the greatest temptations of my life. while i was in wandsworth prison i longed to die. it was my one desire. when after two months in the infirmary i was transferred here, and found myself growing gradually better in physical health, i was filled with rage. i determined to commit suicide on the very day on which i left prison. after a time that evil mood passed away, and i made up my mind to live, but to wear gloom as a king wears purple: never to smile again: to turn whatever house i entered into a house of mourning: to make my friends walk slowly in sadness with me: to teach them that melancholy is the true secret of life: to maim them with an alien sorrow: to mar them with my own pain. now i feel quite differently. i see it would be both ungrateful and unkind of me to pull so long a face that when my friends came to see me they would have to make their faces still longer in order to show their sympathy; or, if i desired to entertain them, to invite them to sit down silently to bitter herbs and funeral baked meats. i must learn how to be cheerful and happy. the last two occasions on which i was allowed to see my friends here, i tried to be as cheerful as possible, and to show my cheerfulness, in order to make them some slight return for their trouble in coming all the way from town to see me. it is only a slight return, i know, but it is the one, i feel certain, that pleases them most. i saw r--- for an hour on saturday week, and i tried to give the fullest possible expression of the delight i really felt at our meeting. and that, in the views and ideas i am here shaping for myself, i am quite right is shown to me by the fact that now for the first time since my imprisonment i have a real desire for life. there is before me so much to do, that i would regard it as a terrible tragedy if i died before i was allowed to complete at any rate a little of it. i see new developments in art and life, each one of which is a fresh mode of perfection. i long to live so that i can explore what is no less than a new world to me. do you want to know what this new world is? i think you can guess what it is. it is the world in which i have been living. sorrow, then, and all that it teaches one, is my new world. i used to live entirely for pleasure. i shunned suffering and sorrow of every kind. i hated both. i resolved to ignore them as far as possible: to treat them, that is to say, as modes of imperfection. they were not part of my scheme of life. they had no place in my philosophy. my mother, who knew life as a whole, used often to quote to me goethe's lines--written by carlyle in a book he had given her years ago, and translated by him, i fancy, also:-- 'who never ate his bread in sorrow, who never spent the midnight hours weeping and waiting for the morrow,-- he knows you not, ye heavenly powers.' they were the lines which that noble queen of prussia, whom napoleon treated with such coarse brutality, used to quote in her humiliation and exile; they were the lines my mother often quoted in the troubles of her later life. i absolutely declined to accept or admit the enormous truth hidden in them. i could not understand it. i remember quite well how i used to tell her that i did not want to eat my bread in sorrow, or to pass any night weeping and watching for a more bitter dawn. i had no idea that it was one of the special things that the fates had in store for me: that for a whole year of my life, indeed, i was to do little else. but so has my portion been meted out to me; and during the last few months i have, after terrible difficulties and struggles, been able to comprehend some of the lessons hidden in the heart of pain. clergymen and people who use phrases without wisdom sometimes talk of suffering as a mystery. it is really a revelation. one discerns things one never discerned before. one approaches the whole of history from a different standpoint. what one had felt dimly, through instinct, about art, is intellectually and emotionally realised with perfect clearness of vision and absolute intensity of apprehension. i now see that sorrow, being the supreme emotion of which man is capable, is at once the type and test of all great art. what the artist is always looking for is the mode of existence in which soul and body are one and indivisible: in which the outward is expressive of the inward: in which form reveals. of such modes of existence there are not a few: youth and the arts preoccupied with youth may serve as a model for us at one moment: at another we may like to think that, in its subtlety and sensitiveness of impression, its suggestion of a spirit dwelling in external things and making its raiment of earth and air, of mist and city alike, and in its morbid sympathy of its moods, and tones, and colours, modern landscape art is realising for us pictorially what was realised in such plastic perfection by the greeks. music, in which all subject is absorbed in expression and cannot be separated from it, is a complex example, and a flower or a child a simple example, of what i mean; but sorrow is the ultimate type both in life and art. behind joy and laughter there may be a temperament, coarse, hard and callous. but behind sorrow there is always sorrow. pain, unlike pleasure, wears no mask. truth in art is not any correspondence between the essential idea and the accidental existence; it is not the resemblance of shape to shadow, or of the form mirrored in the crystal to the form itself; it is no echo coming from a hollow hill, any more than it is a silver well of water in the valley that shows the moon to the moon and narcissus to narcissus. truth in art is the unity of a thing with itself: the outward rendered expressive of the inward: the soul made incarnate: the body instinct with spirit. for this reason there is no truth comparable to sorrow. there are times when sorrow seems to me to be the only truth. other things may be illusions of the eye or the appetite, made to blind the one and cloy the other, but out of sorrow have the worlds been built, and at the birth of a child or a star there is pain. more than this, there is about sorrow an intense, an extraordinary reality. i have said of myself that i was one who stood in symbolic relations to the art and culture of my age. there is not a single wretched man in this wretched place along with me who does not stand in symbolic relation to the very secret of life. for the secret of life is suffering. it is what is hidden behind everything. when we begin to live, what is sweet is so sweet to us, and what is bitter so bitter, that we inevitably direct all our desires towards pleasures, and seek not merely for a 'month or twain to feed on honeycomb,' but for all our years to taste no other food, ignorant all the while that we may really be starving the soul. i remember talking once on this subject to one of the most beautiful personalities i have ever known: a woman, whose sympathy and noble kindness to me, both before and since the tragedy of my imprisonment, have been beyond power and description; one who has really assisted me, though she does not know it, to bear the burden of my troubles more than any one else in the whole world has, and all through the mere fact of her existence, through her being what she is--partly an ideal and partly an influence: a suggestion of what one might become as well as a real help towards becoming it; a soul that renders the common air sweet, and makes what is spiritual seem as simple and natural as sunlight or the sea: one for whom beauty and sorrow walk hand in hand, and have the same message. on the occasion of which i am thinking i recall distinctly how i said to her that there was enough suffering in one narrow london lane to show that god did not love man, and that wherever there was any sorrow, though but that of a child, in some little garden weeping over a fault that it had or had not committed, the whole face of creation was completely marred. i was entirely wrong. she told me so, but i could not believe her. i was not in the sphere in which such belief was to be attained to. now it seems to me that love of some kind is the only possible explanation of the extraordinary amount of suffering that there is in the world. i cannot conceive of any other explanation. i am convinced that there is no other, and that if the world has indeed, as i have said, been built of sorrow, it has been built by the hands of love, because in no other way could the soul of man, for whom the world was made, reach the full stature of its perfection. pleasure for the beautiful body, but pain for the beautiful soul. when i say that i am convinced of these things i speak with too much pride. far off, like a perfect pearl, one can see the city of god. it is so wonderful that it seems as if a child could reach it in a summer's day. and so a child could. but with me and such as me it is different. one can realise a thing in a single moment, but one loses it in the long hours that follow with leaden feet. it is so difficult to keep 'heights that the soul is competent to gain.' we think in eternity, but we move slowly through time; and how slowly time goes with us who lie in prison i need not tell again, nor of the weariness and despair that creep back into one's cell, and into the cell of one's heart, with such strange insistence that one has, as it were, to garnish and sweep one's house for their coming, as for an unwelcome guest, or a bitter master, or a slave whose slave it is one's chance or choice to be. and, though at present my friends may find it a hard thing to believe, it is true none the less, that for them living in freedom and idleness and comfort it is more easy to learn the lessons of humility than it is for me, who begin the day by going down on my knees and washing the floor of my cell. for prison life with its endless privations and restrictions makes one rebellious. the most terrible thing about it is not that it breaks one's heart--hearts are made to be broken--but that it turns one's heart to stone. one sometimes feels that it is only with a front of brass and a lip of scorn that one can get through the day at all. and he who is in a state of rebellion cannot receive grace, to use the phrase of which the church is so fond--so rightly fond, i dare say--for in life as in art the mood of rebellion closes up the channels of the soul, and shuts out the airs of heaven. yet i must learn these lessons here, if i am to learn them anywhere, and must be filled with joy if my feet are on the right road and my face set towards 'the gate which is called beautiful,' though i may fall many times in the mire and often in the mist go astray. this new life, as through my love of dante i like sometimes to call it, is of course no new life at all, but simply the continuance, by means of development, and evolution, of my former life. i remember when i was at oxford saying to one of my friends as we were strolling round magdalen's narrow bird-haunted walks one morning in the year before i took my degree, that i wanted to eat of the fruit of all the trees in the garden of the world, and that i was going out into the world with that passion in my soul. and so, indeed, i went out, and so i lived. my only mistake was that i confined myself so exclusively to the trees of what seemed to me the sun-lit side of the garden, and shunned the other side for its shadow and its gloom. failure, disgrace, poverty, sorrow, despair, suffering, tears even, the broken words that come from lips in pain, remorse that makes one walk on thorns, conscience that condemns, self- abasement that punishes, the misery that puts ashes on its head, the anguish that chooses sack-cloth for its raiment and into its own drink puts gall:--all these were things of which i was afraid. and as i had determined to know nothing of them, i was forced to taste each of them in turn, to feed on them, to have for a season, indeed, no other food at all. i don't regret for a single moment having lived for pleasure. i did it to the full, as one should do everything that one does. there was no pleasure i did not experience. i threw the pearl of my soul into a cup of wine. i went down the primrose path to the sound of flutes. i lived on honeycomb. but to have continued the same life would have been wrong because it would have been limiting. i had to pass on. the other half of the garden had its secrets for me also. of course all this is foreshadowed and prefigured in my books. some of it is in _the happy prince_, some of it in _the young king_, notably in the passage where the bishop says to the kneeling boy, 'is not he who made misery wiser than thou art'? a phrase which when i wrote it seemed to me little more than a phrase; a great deal of it is hidden away in the note of doom that like a purple thread runs through the texture of _dorian gray_; in _the critic as artist_ it is set forth in many colours; in _the soul of man_ it is written down, and in letters too easy to read; it is one of the refrains whose recurring _motifs_ make _salome_ so like a piece of music and bind it together as a ballad; in the prose poem of the man who from the bronze of the image of the 'pleasure that liveth for a moment' has to make the image of the 'sorrow that abideth for ever' it is incarnate. it could not have been otherwise. at every single moment of one's life one is what one is going to be no less than what one has been. art is a symbol, because man is a symbol. it is, if i can fully attain to it, the ultimate realisation of the artistic life. for the artistic life is simply self-development. humility in the artist is his frank acceptance of all experiences, just as love in the artist is simply the sense of beauty that reveals to the world its body and its soul. in _marius the epicurean_ pater seeks to reconcile the artistic life with the life of religion, in the deep, sweet, and austere sense of the word. but marius is little more than a spectator: an ideal spectator indeed, and one to whom it is given 'to contemplate the spectacle of life with appropriate emotions,' which wordsworth defines as the poet's true aim; yet a spectator merely, and perhaps a little too much occupied with the comeliness of the benches of the sanctuary to notice that it is the sanctuary of sorrow that he is gazing at. i see a far more intimate and immediate connection between the true life of christ and the true life of the artist; and i take a keen pleasure in the reflection that long before sorrow had made my days her own and bound me to her wheel i had written in _the soul of man_ that he who would lead a christ-like life must be entirely and absolutely himself, and had taken as my types not merely the shepherd on the hillside and the prisoner in his cell, but also the painter to whom the world is a pageant and the poet for whom the world is a song. i remember saying once to andre gide, as we sat together in some paris _cafe_, that while meta-physics had but little real interest for me, and morality absolutely none, there was nothing that either plato or christ had said that could not be transferred immediately into the sphere of art and there find its complete fulfilment. nor is it merely that we can discern in christ that close union of personality with perfection which forms the real distinction between the classical and romantic movement in life, but the very basis of his nature was the same as that of the nature of the artist--an intense and flamelike imagination. he realised in the entire sphere of human relations that imaginative sympathy which in the sphere of art is the sole secret of creation. he understood the leprosy of the leper, the darkness of the blind, the fierce misery of those who live for pleasure, the strange poverty of the rich. some one wrote to me in trouble, 'when you are not on your pedestal you are not interesting.' how remote was the writer from what matthew arnold calls 'the secret of jesus.' either would have taught him that whatever happens to another happens to oneself, and if you want an inscription to read at dawn and at night-time, and for pleasure or for pain, write up on the walls of your house in letters for the sun to gild and the moon to silver, 'whatever happens to oneself happens to another.' christ's place indeed is with the poets. his whole conception of humanity sprang right out of the imagination and can only be realised by it. what god was to the pantheist, man was to him. he was the first to conceive the divided races as a unity. before his time there had been gods and men, and, feeling through the mysticism of sympathy that in himself each had been made incarnate, he calls himself the son of the one or the son of the other, according to his mood. more than any one else in history he wakes in us that temper of wonder to which romance always appeals. there is still something to me almost incredible in the idea of a young galilean peasant imagining that he could bear on his own shoulders the burden of the entire world; all that had already been done and suffered, and all that was yet to be done and suffered: the sins of nero, of caesar borgia, of alexander vi., and of him who was emperor of rome and priest of the sun: the sufferings of those whose names are legion and whose dwelling is among the tombs: oppressed nationalities, factory children, thieves, people in prison, outcasts, those who are dumb under oppression and whose silence is heard only of god; and not merely imagining this but actually achieving it, so that at the present moment all who come in contact with his personality, even though they may neither bow to his altar nor kneel before his priest, in some way find that the ugliness of their sin is taken away and the beauty of their sorrow revealed to them. i had said of christ that he ranks with the poets. that is true. shelley and sophocles are of his company. but his entire life also is the most wonderful of poems. for 'pity and terror' there is nothing in the entire cycle of greek tragedy to touch it. the absolute purity of the protagonist raises the entire scheme to a height of romantic art from which the sufferings of thebes and pelops' line are by their very horror excluded, and shows how wrong aristotle was when he said in his treatise on the drama that it would be impossible to bear the spectacle of one blameless in pain. nor in aeschylus nor dante, those stern masters of tenderness, in shakespeare, the most purely human of all the great artists, in the whole of celtic myth and legend, where the loveliness of the world is shown through a mist of tears, and the life of a man is no more than the life of a flower, is there anything that, for sheer simplicity of pathos wedded and made one with sublimity of tragic effect, can be said to equal or even approach the last act of christ's passion. the little supper with his companions, one of whom has already sold him for a price; the anguish in the quiet moon-lit garden; the false friend coming close to him so as to betray him with a kiss; the friend who still believed in him, and on whom as on a rock he had hoped to build a house of refuge for man, denying him as the bird cried to the dawn; his own utter loneliness, his submission, his acceptance of everything; and along with it all such scenes as the high priest of orthodoxy rending his raiment in wrath, and the magistrate of civil justice calling for water in the vain hope of cleansing himself of that stain of innocent blood that makes him the scarlet figure of history; the coronation ceremony of sorrow, one of the most wonderful things in the whole of recorded time; the crucifixion of the innocent one before the eyes of his mother and of the disciple whom he loved; the soldiers gambling and throwing dice for his clothes; the terrible death by which he gave the world its most eternal symbol; and his final burial in the tomb of the rich man, his body swathed in egyptian linen with costly spices and perfumes as though he had been a king's son. when one contemplates all this from the point of view of art alone one cannot but be grateful that the supreme office of the church should be the playing of the tragedy without the shedding of blood: the mystical presentation, by means of dialogue and costume and gesture even, of the passion of her lord; and it is always a source of pleasure and awe to me to remember that the ultimate survival of the greek chorus, lost elsewhere to art, is to be found in the servitor answering the priest at mass. yet the whole life of christ--so entirely may sorrow and beauty be made one in their meaning and manifestation--is really an idyll, though it ends with the veil of the temple being rent, and the darkness coming over the face of the earth, and the stone rolled to the door of the sepulchre. one always thinks of him as a young bridegroom with his companions, as indeed he somewhere describes himself; as a shepherd straying through a valley with his sheep in search of green meadow or cool stream; as a singer trying to build out of the music the walls of the city of god; or as a lover for whose love the whole world was too small. his miracles seem to me to be as exquisite as the coming of spring, and quite as natural. i see no difficulty at all in believing that such was the charm of his personality that his mere presence could bring peace to souls in anguish, and that those who touched his garments or his hands forgot their pain; or that as he passed by on the highway of life people who had seen nothing of life's mystery, saw it clearly, and others who had been deaf to every voice but that of pleasure heard for the first time the voice of love and found it as 'musical as apollo's lute'; or that evil passions fled at his approach, and men whose dull unimaginative lives had been but a mode of death rose as it were from the grave when he called them; or that when he taught on the hillside the multitude forgot their hunger and thirst and the cares of this world, and that to his friends who listened to him as he sat at meat the coarse food seemed delicate, and the water had the taste of good wine, and the whole house became full of the odour and sweetness of nard. renan in his _vie de jesus_--that gracious fifth gospel, the gospel according to st. thomas, one might call it--says somewhere that christ's great achievement was that he made himself as much loved after his death as he had been during his lifetime. and certainly, if his place is among the poets, he is the leader of all the lovers. he saw that love was the first secret of the world for which the wise men had been looking, and that it was only through love that one could approach either the heart of the leper or the feet of god. and above all, christ is the most supreme of individualists. humility, like the artistic, acceptance of all experiences, is merely a mode of manifestation. it is man's soul that christ is always looking for. he calls it 'god's kingdom,' and finds it in every one. he compares it to little things, to a tiny seed, to a handful of leaven, to a pearl. that is because one realises one's soul only by getting rid of all alien passions, all acquired culture, and all external possessions, be they good or evil. i bore up against everything with some stubbornness of will and much rebellion of nature, till i had absolutely nothing left in the world but one thing. i had lost my name, my position, my happiness, my freedom, my wealth. i was a prisoner and a pauper. but i still had my children left. suddenly they were taken away from me by the law. it was a blow so appalling that i did not know what to do, so i flung myself on my knees, and bowed my head, and wept, and said, 'the body of a child is as the body of the lord: i am not worthy of either.' that moment seemed to save me. i saw then that the only thing for me was to accept everything. since then--curious as it will no doubt sound--i have been happier. it was of course my soul in its ultimate essence that i had reached. in many ways i had been its enemy, but i found it waiting for me as a friend. when one comes in contact with the soul it makes one simple as a child, as christ said one should be. it is tragic how few people ever 'possess their souls' before they die. 'nothing is more rare in any man,' says emerson, 'than an act of his own.' it is quite true. most people are other people. their thoughts are some one else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation. christ was not merely the supreme individualist, but he was the first individualist in history. people have tried to make him out an ordinary philanthropist, or ranked him as an altruist with the scientific and sentimental. but he was really neither one nor the other. pity he has, of course, for the poor, for those who are shut up in prisons, for the lowly, for the wretched; but he has far more pity for the rich, for the hard hedonists, for those who waste their freedom in becoming slaves to things, for those who wear soft raiment and live in kings' houses. riches and pleasure seemed to him to be really greater tragedies than poverty or sorrow. and as for altruism, who knew better than he that it is vocation not volition that determines us, and that one cannot gather grapes of thorns or figs from thistles? to live for others as a definite self-conscious aim was not his creed. it was not the basis of his creed. when he says, 'forgive your enemies,' it is not for the sake of the enemy, but for one's own sake that he says so, and because love is more beautiful than hate. in his own entreaty to the young man, 'sell all that thou hast and give to the poor,' it is not of the state of the poor that he is thinking but of the soul of the young man, the soul that wealth was marring. in his view of life he is one with the artist who knows that by the inevitable law of self-perfection, the poet must sing, and the sculptor think in bronze, and the painter make the world a mirror for his moods, as surely and as certainly as the hawthorn must blossom in spring, and the corn turn to gold at harvest- time, and the moon in her ordered wanderings change from shield to sickle, and from sickle to shield. but while christ did not say to men, 'live for others,' he pointed out that there was no difference at all between the lives of others and one's own life. by this means he gave to man an extended, a titan personality. since his coming the history of each separate individual is, or can be made, the history of the world. of course, culture has intensified the personality of man. art has made us myriad-minded. those who have the artistic temperament go into exile with dante and learn how salt is the bread of others, and how steep their stairs; they catch for a moment the serenity and calm of goethe, and yet know but too well that baudelaire cried to god-- 'o seigneur, donnez moi la force et le courage de contempler mon corps et mon coeur sans degout.' out of shakespeare's sonnets they draw, to their own hurt it may be, the secret of his love and make it their own; they look with new eyes on modern life, because they have listened to one of chopin's nocturnes, or handled greek things, or read the story of the passion of some dead man for some dead woman whose hair was like threads of fine gold, and whose mouth was as a pomegranate. but the sympathy of the artistic temperament is necessarily with what has found expression. in words or in colours, in music or in marble, behind the painted masks of an aeschylean play, or through some sicilian shepherds' pierced and jointed reeds, the man and his message must have been revealed. to the artist, expression is the only mode under which he can conceive life at all. to him what is dumb is dead. but to christ it was not so. with a width and wonder of imagination that fills one almost with awe, he took the entire world of the inarticulate, the voiceless world of pain, as his kingdom, and made of himself its eternal mouthpiece. those of whom i have spoken, who are dumb under oppression, and 'whose silence is heard only of god,' he chose as his brothers. he sought to become eyes to the blind, ears to the deaf, and a cry in the lips of those whose tongues had been tied. his desire was to be to the myriads who had found no utterance a very trumpet through which they might call to heaven. and feeling, with the artistic nature of one to whom suffering and sorrow were modes through which he could realise his conception of the beautiful, that an idea is of no value till it becomes incarnate and is made an image, he made of himself the image of the man of sorrows, and as such has fascinated and dominated art as no greek god ever succeeded in doing. for the greek gods, in spite of the white and red of their fair fleet limbs, were not really what they appeared to be. the curved brow of apollo was like the sun's disc crescent over a hill at dawn, and his feet were as the wings of the morning, but he himself had been cruel to marsyas and had made niobe childless. in the steel shields of athena's eyes there had been no pity for arachne; the pomp and peacocks of hera were all that was really noble about her; and the father of the gods himself had been too fond of the daughters of men. the two most deeply suggestive figures of greek mythology were, for religion, demeter, an earth goddess, not one of the olympians, and for art, dionysus, the son of a mortal woman to whom the moment of his birth had proved also the moment of her death. but life itself from its lowliest and most humble sphere produced one far more marvellous than the mother of proserpina or the son of semele. out of the carpenter's shop at nazareth had come a personality infinitely greater than any made by myth and legend, and one, strangely enough, destined to reveal to the world the mystical meaning of wine and the real beauties of the lilies of the field as none, either on cithaeron or at enna, had ever done. the song of isaiah, 'he is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him,' had seemed to him to prefigure himself, and in him the prophecy was fulfilled. we must not be afraid of such a phrase. every single work of art is the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every work of art is the conversion of an idea into an image. every single human being should be the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every human being should be the realisation of some ideal, either in the mind of god or in the mind of man. christ found the type and fixed it, and the dream of a virgilian poet, either at jerusalem or at babylon, became in the long progress of the centuries incarnate in him for whom the world was waiting. to me one of the things in history the most to be regretted is that the christ's own renaissance, which has produced the cathedral at chartres, the arthurian cycle of legends, the life of st. francis of assisi, the art of giotto, and dante's _divine comedy_, was not allowed to develop on its own lines, but was interrupted and spoiled by the dreary classical renaissance that gave us petrarch, and raphael's frescoes, and palladian architecture, and formal french tragedy, and st. paul's cathedral, and pope's poetry, and everything that is made from without and by dead rules, and does not spring from within through some spirit informing it. but wherever there is a romantic movement in art there somehow, and under some form, is christ, or the soul of christ. he is in _romeo and juliet_, in the _winter's tale_, in provencal poetry, in the _ancient mariner_, in _la belle dame sans merci_, and in chatterton's _ballad of charity_. we owe to him the most diverse things and people. hugo's _les miserables_, baudelaire's _fleurs du mal_, the note of pity in russian novels, verlaine and verlaine's poems, the stained glass and tapestries and the quattro-cento work of burne-jones and morris, belong to him no less than the tower of giotto, lancelot and guinevere, tannhauser, the troubled romantic marbles of michael angelo, pointed architecture, and the love of children and flowers--for both of which, indeed, in classical art there was but little place, hardly enough for them to grow or play in, but which, from the twelfth century down to our own day, have been continually making their appearances in art, under various modes and at various times, coming fitfully and wilfully, as children, as flowers, are apt to do: spring always seeming to one as if the flowers had been in hiding, and only came out into the sun because they were afraid that grown up people would grow tired of looking for them and give up the search; and the life of a child being no more than an april day on which there is both rain and sun for the narcissus. it is the imaginative quality of christ's own nature that makes him this palpitating centre of romance. the strange figures of poetic drama and ballad are made by the imagination of others, but out of his own imagination entirely did jesus of nazareth create himself. the cry of isaiah had really no more to do with his coming than the song of the nightingale has to do with the rising of the moon--no more, though perhaps no less. he was the denial as well as the affirmation of prophecy. for every expectation that he fulfilled there was another that he destroyed. 'in all beauty,' says bacon, 'there is some strangeness of proportion,' and of those who are born of the spirit--of those, that is to say, who like himself are dynamic forces--christ says that they are like the wind that 'bloweth where it listeth, and no man can tell whence it cometh and whither it goeth.' that is why he is so fascinating to artists. he has all the colour elements of life: mystery, strangeness, pathos, suggestion, ecstasy, love. he appeals to the temper of wonder, and creates that mood in which alone he can be understood. and to me it is a joy to remember that if he is 'of imagination all compact,' the world itself is of the same substance. i said in _dorian gray_ that the great sins of the world take place in the brain: but it is in the brain that everything takes place. we know now that we do not see with the eyes or hear with the ears. they are really channels for the transmission, adequate or inadequate, of sense impressions. it is in the brain that the poppy is red, that the apple is odorous, that the skylark sings. of late i have been studying with diligence the four prose poems about christ. at christmas i managed to get hold of a greek testament, and every morning, after i had cleaned my cell and polished my tins, i read a little of the gospels, a dozen verses taken by chance anywhere. it is a delightful way of opening the day. every one, even in a turbulent, ill- disciplined life, should do the same. endless repetition, in and out of season, has spoiled for us the freshness, the naivete, the simple romantic charm of the gospels. we hear them read far too often and far too badly, and all repetition is anti-spiritual. when one returns to the greek; it is like going into a garden of lilies out of some, narrow and dark house. and to me, the pleasure is doubled by the reflection that it is extremely probable that we have the actual terms, the _ipsissima verba_, used by christ. it was always supposed that christ talked in aramaic. even renan thought so. but now we know that the galilean peasants, like the irish peasants of our own day, were bilingual, and that greek was the ordinary language of intercourse all over palestine, as indeed all over the eastern world. i never liked the idea that we knew of christ's own words only through a translation of a translation. it is a delight to me to think that as far as his conversation was concerned, charmides might have listened to him, and socrates reasoned with him, and plato understood him: that he really said [greek text], that when he thought of the lilies of the field and how they neither toil nor spin, his absolute expression was [greek text], and that his last word when he cried out 'my life has been completed, has reached its fulfilment, has been perfected,' was exactly as st. john tells us it was: [greek text]--no more. while in reading the gospels--particularly that of st. john himself, or whatever early gnostic took his name and mantle--i see the continual assertion of the imagination as the basis of all spiritual and material life, i see also that to christ imagination was simply a form of love, and that to him love was lord in the fullest meaning of the phrase. some six weeks ago i was allowed by the doctor to have white bread to eat instead of the coarse black or brown bread of ordinary prison fare. it is a great delicacy. it will sound strange that dry bread could possibly be a delicacy to any one. to me it is so much so that at the close of each meal i carefully eat whatever crumbs may be left on my tin plate, or have fallen on the rough towel that one uses as a cloth so as not to soil one's table; and i do so not from hunger--i get now quite sufficient food--but simply in order that nothing should be wasted of what is given to me. so one should look on love. christ, like all fascinating personalities, had the power of not merely saying beautiful things himself, but of making other people say beautiful things to him; and i love the story st. mark tells us about the greek woman, who, when as a trial of her faith he said to her that he could not give her the bread of the children of israel, answered him that the little dogs--([greek text], 'little dogs' it should be rendered)--who are under the table eat of the crumbs that the children let fall. most people live for love and admiration. but it is by love and admiration that we should live. if any love is shown us we should recognise that we are quite unworthy of it. nobody is worthy to be loved. the fact that god loves man shows us that in the divine order of ideal things it is written that eternal love is to be given to what is eternally unworthy. or if that phrase seems to be a bitter one to bear, let us say that every one is worthy of love, except him who thinks that he is. love is a sacrament that should be taken kneeling, and _domine, non sum dignus_ should be on the lips and in the hearts of those who receive it. if ever i write again, in the sense of producing artistic work, there are just two subjects on which and through which i desire to express myself: one is 'christ as the precursor of the romantic movement in life': the other is 'the artistic life considered in its relation to conduct.' the first is, of course, intensely fascinating, for i see in christ not merely the essentials of the supreme romantic type, but all the accidents, the wilfulnesses even, of the romantic temperament also. he was the first person who ever said to people that they should live 'flower-like lives.' he fixed the phrase. he took children as the type of what people should try to become. he held them up as examples to their elders, which i myself have always thought the chief use of children, if what is perfect should have a use. dante describes the soul of a man as coming from the hand of god 'weeping and laughing like a little child,' and christ also saw that the soul of each one should be _a guisa di fanciulla che piangendo e ridendo pargoleggia_. he felt that life was changeful, fluid, active, and that to allow it to be stereotyped into any form was death. he saw that people should not be too serious over material, common interests: that to be unpractical was to be a great thing: that one should not bother too much over affairs. the birds didn't, why should man? he is charming when he says, 'take no thought for the morrow; is not the soul more than meat? is not the body more than raiment?' a greek might have used the latter phrase. it is full of greek feeling. but only christ could have said both, and so summed up life perfectly for us. his morality is all sympathy, just what morality should be. if the only thing that he ever said had been, 'her sins are forgiven her because she loved much,' it would have been worth while dying to have said it. his justice is all poetical justice, exactly what justice should be. the beggar goes to heaven because he has been unhappy. i cannot conceive a better reason for his being sent there. the people who work for an hour in the vineyard in the cool of the evening receive just as much reward as those who have toiled there all day long in the hot sun. why shouldn't they? probably no one deserved anything. or perhaps they were a different kind of people. christ had no patience with the dull lifeless mechanical systems that treat people as if they were things, and so treat everybody alike: for him there were no laws: there were exceptions merely, as if anybody, or anything, for that matter, was like aught else in the world! that which is the very keynote of romantic art was to him the proper basis of natural life. he saw no other basis. and when they brought him one, taken in the very act of sin and showed him her sentence written in the law, and asked him what was to be done, he wrote with his finger on the ground as though he did not hear them, and finally, when they pressed him again, looked up and said, 'let him of you who has never sinned be the first to throw the stone at her.' it was worth while living to have said that. like all poetical natures he loved ignorant people. he knew that in the soul of one who is ignorant there is always room for a great idea. but he could not stand stupid people, especially those who are made stupid by education: people who are full of opinions not one of which they even understand, a peculiarly modern type, summed up by christ when he describes it as the type of one who has the key of knowledge, cannot use it himself, and does not allow other people to use it, though it may be made to open the gate of god's kingdom. his chief war was against the philistines. that is the war every child of light has to wage. philistinism was the note of the age and community in which he lived. in their heavy inaccessibility to ideas, their dull respectability, their tedious orthodoxy, their worship of vulgar success, their entire preoccupation with the gross materialistic side of life, and their ridiculous estimate of themselves and their importance, the jews of jerusalem in christ's day were the exact counterpart of the british philistine of our own. christ mocked at the 'whited sepulchre' of respectability, and fixed that phrase for ever. he treated worldly success as a thing absolutely to be despised. he saw nothing in it at all. he looked on wealth as an encumbrance to a man. he would not hear of life being sacrificed to any system of thought or morals. he pointed out that forms and ceremonies were made for man, not man for forms and ceremonies. he took sabbatarianism as a type of the things that should be set at nought. the cold philanthropies, the ostentatious public charities, the tedious formalisms so dear to the middle-class mind, he exposed with utter and relentless scorn. to us, what is termed orthodoxy is merely a facile unintelligent acquiescence; but to them, and in their hands, it was a terrible and paralysing tyranny. christ swept it aside. he showed that the spirit alone was of value. he took a keen pleasure in pointing out to them that though they were always reading the law and the prophets, they had not really the smallest idea of what either of them meant. in opposition to their tithing of each separate day into the fixed routine of prescribed duties, as they tithe mint and rue, he preached the enormous importance of living completely for the moment. those whom he saved from their sins are saved simply for beautiful moments in their lives. mary magdalen, when she sees christ, breaks the rich vase of alabaster that one of her seven lovers had given her, and spills the odorous spices over his tired dusty feet, and for that one moment's sake sits for ever with ruth and beatrice in the tresses of the snow-white rose of paradise. all that christ says to us by the way of a little warning is that every moment should be beautiful, that the soul should always be ready for the coming of the bridegroom, always waiting for the voice of the lover, philistinism being simply that side of man's nature that is not illumined by the imagination. he sees all the lovely influences of life as modes of light: the imagination itself is the world of light. the world is made by it, and yet the world cannot understand it: that is because the imagination is simply a manifestation of love, and it is love and the capacity for it that distinguishes one human being from another. but it is when he deals with a sinner that christ is most romantic, in the sense of most real. the world had always loved the saint as being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of god. christ, through some divine instinct in him, seems to have always loved the sinner as being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of man. his primary desire was not to reform people, any more than his primary desire was to a relieve suffering. to turn an interesting thief into a tedious honest man was not his aim. he would have thought little of the prisoners' aid society and other modern movements of the kind. the conversion of a publican into a pharisee would not have seemed to him a great achievement. but in a manner not yet understood of the world he regarded sin and suffering as being in themselves beautiful holy things and modes of perfection. it seems a very dangerous idea. it is--all great ideas are dangerous. that it was christ's creed admits of no doubt. that it is the true creed i don't doubt myself. of course the sinner must repent. but why? simply because otherwise he would be unable to realise what he had done. the moment of repentance is the moment of initiation. more than that: it is the means by which one alters one's past. the greeks thought that impossible. they often say in their gnomic aphorisms, 'even the gods cannot alter the past.' christ showed that the commonest sinner could do it, that it was the one thing he could do. christ, had he been asked, would have said--i feel quite certain about it--that the moment the prodigal son fell on his knees and wept, he made his having wasted his substance with harlots, his swine- herding and hungering for the husks they ate, beautiful and holy moments in his life. it is difficult for most people to grasp the idea. i dare say one has to go to prison to understand it. if so, it may be worth while going to prison. there is something so unique about christ. of course just as there are false dawns before the dawn itself, and winter days so full of sudden sunlight that they will cheat the wise crocus into squandering its gold before its time, and make some foolish bird call to its mate to build on barren boughs, so there were christians before christ. for that we should be grateful. the unfortunate thing is that there have been none since. i make one exception, st. francis of assisi. but then god had given him at his birth the soul of a poet, as he himself when quite young had in mystical marriage taken poverty as his bride: and with the soul of a poet and the body of a beggar he found the way to perfection not difficult. he understood christ, and so he became like him. we do not require the liber conformitatum to teach us that the life of st. francis was the true _imitatio christi_, a poem compared to which the book of that name is merely prose. indeed, that is the charm about christ, when all is said: he is just like a work of art. he does not really teach one anything, but by being brought into his presence one becomes something. and everybody is predestined to his presence. once at least in his life each man walks with christ to emmaus. as regards the other subject, the relation of the artistic life to conduct, it will no doubt seem strange to you that i should select it. people point to reading gaol and say, 'that is where the artistic life leads a man.' well, it might lead to worse places. the more mechanical people to whom life is a shrewd speculation depending on a careful calculation of ways and means, always know where they are going, and go there. they start with the ideal desire of being the parish beadle, and in whatever sphere they are placed they succeed in being the parish beadle and no more. a man whose desire is to be something separate from himself, to be a member of parliament, or a successful grocer, or a prominent solicitor, or a judge, or something equally tedious, invariably succeeds in being what he wants to be. that is his punishment. those who want a mask have to wear it. but with the dynamic forces of life, and those in whom those dynamic forces become incarnate, it is different. people whose desire is solely for self-realisation never know where they are going. they can't know. in one sense of the word it is of course necessary, as the greek oracle said, to know oneself: that is the first achievement of knowledge. but to recognise that the soul of a man is unknowable, is the ultimate achievement of wisdom. the final mystery is oneself. when one has weighed the sun in the balance, and measured the steps of the moon, and mapped out the seven heavens star by star, there still remains oneself. who can calculate the orbit of his own soul? when the son went out to look for his father's asses, he did not know that a man of god was waiting for him with the very chrism of coronation, and that his own soul was already the soul of a king. i hope to live long enough and to produce work of such a character that i shall be able at the end of my days to say, 'yes! this is just where the artistic life leads a man!' two of the most perfect lives i have come across in my own experience are the lives of verlaine and of prince kropotkin: both of them men who have passed years in prison: the first, the one christian poet since dante; the other, a man with a soul of that beautiful white christ which seems coming out of russia. and for the last seven or eight months, in spite of a succession of great troubles reaching me from the outside world almost without intermission, i have been placed in direct contact with a new spirit working in this prison through man and things, that has helped me beyond any possibility of expression in words: so that while for the first year of my imprisonment i did nothing else, and can remember doing nothing else, but wring my hands in impotent despair, and say, 'what an ending, what an appalling ending!' now i try to say to myself, and sometimes when i am not torturing myself do really and sincerely say, 'what a beginning, what a wonderful beginning!' it may really be so. it may become so. if it does i shall owe much to this new personality that has altered every man's life in this place. you may realise it when i say that had i been released last may, as i tried to be, i would have left this place loathing it and every official in it with a bitterness of hatred that would have poisoned my life. i have had a year longer of imprisonment, but humanity has been in the prison along with us all, and now when i go out i shall always remember great kindnesses that i have received here from almost everybody, and on the day of my release i shall give many thanks to many people, and ask to be remembered by them in turn. the prison style is absolutely and entirely wrong. i would give anything to be able to alter it when i go out. i intend to try. but there is nothing in the world so wrong but that the spirit of humanity, which is the spirit of love, the spirit of the christ who is not in churches, may make it, if not right, at least possible to be borne without too much bitterness of heart. i know also that much is waiting for me outside that is very delightful, from what st. francis of assisi calls 'my brother the wind, and my sister the rain,' lovely things both of them, down to the shop-windows and sunsets of great cities. if i made a list of all that still remains to me, i don't know where i should stop: for, indeed, god made the world just as much for me as for any one else. perhaps i may go out with something that i had not got before. i need not tell you that to me reformations in morals are as meaningless and vulgar as reformations in theology. but while to propose to be a better man is a piece of unscientific cant, to have become a deeper man is the privilege of those who have suffered. and such i think i have become. if after i am free a friend of mine gave a feast, and did not invite me to it, i should not mind a bit. i can be perfectly happy by myself. with freedom, flowers, books, and the moon, who could not be perfectly happy? besides, feasts are not for me any more. i have given too many to care about them. that side of life is over for me, very fortunately, i dare say. but if after i am free a friend of mine had a sorrow and refused to allow me to share it, i should feel it most bitterly. if he shut the doors of the house of mourning against me, i would come back again and again and beg to be admitted, so that i might share in what i was entitled to share in. if he thought me unworthy, unfit to weep with him, i should feel it as the most poignant humiliation, as the most terrible mode in which disgrace could be inflicted on me. but that could not be. i have a right to share in sorrow, and he who can look at the loveliness of the world and share its sorrow, and realise something of the wonder of both, is in immediate contact with divine things, and has got as near to god's secret as any one can get. perhaps there may come into my art also, no less than into my life, a still deeper note, one of greater unity of passion, and directness of impulse. not width but intensity is the true aim of modern art. we are no longer in art concerned with the type. it is with the exception that we have to do. i cannot put my sufferings into any form they took, i need hardly say. art only begins where imitation ends, but something must come into my work, of fuller memory of words perhaps, of richer cadences, of more curious effects, of simpler architectural order, of some aesthetic quality at any rate. when marsyas was 'torn from the scabbard of his limbs'--_della vagina della membre sue_, to use one of dante's most terrible tacitean phrases--he had no more song, the greek said. apollo had been victor. the lyre had vanquished the reed. but perhaps the greeks were mistaken. i hear in much modern art the cry of marsyas. it is bitter in baudelaire, sweet and plaintive in lamartine, mystic in verlaine. it is in the deferred resolutions of chopin's music. it is in the discontent that haunts burne-jones's women. even matthew arnold, whose song of callicles tells of 'the triumph of the sweet persuasive lyre,' and the 'famous final victory,' in such a clear note of lyrical beauty, has not a little of it; in the troubled undertone of doubt and distress that haunts his verses, neither goethe nor wordsworth could help him, though he followed each in turn, and when he seeks to mourn for _thyrsis_ or to sing of the _scholar gipsy_, it is the reed that he has to take for the rendering of his strain. but whether or not the phrygian faun was silent, i cannot be. expression is as necessary to me as leaf and blossoms are to the black branches of the trees that show themselves above the prison walls and are so restless in the wind. between my art and the world there is now a wide gulf, but between art and myself there is none. i hope at least that there is none. to each of us different fates are meted out. my lot has been one of public infamy, of long imprisonment, of misery, of ruin, of disgrace, but i am not worthy of it--not yet, at any rate. i remember that i used to say that i thought i could bear a real tragedy if it came to me with purple pall and a mask of noble sorrow, but that the dreadful thing about modernity was that it put tragedy into the raiment of comedy, so that the great realities seemed commonplace or grotesque or lacking in style. it is quite true about modernity. it has probably always been true about actual life. it is said that all martyrdoms seemed mean to the looker on. the nineteenth century is no exception to the rule. everything about my tragedy has been hideous, mean, repellent, lacking in style; our very dress makes us grotesque. we are the zanies of sorrow. we are clowns whose hearts are broken. we are specially designed to appeal to the sense of humour. on november <UNK> <UNK> i was brought down here from london. from two o'clock till half-past two on that day i had to stand on the centre platform of clapham junction in convict dress, and handcuffed, for the world to look at. i had been taken out of the hospital ward without a moment's notice being given to me. of all possible objects i was the most grotesque. when people saw me they laughed. each train as it came up swelled the audience. nothing could exceed their amusement. that was, of course, before they knew who i was. as soon as they had been informed they laughed still more. for half an hour i stood there in the grey november rain surrounded by a jeering mob. for a year after that was done to me i wept every day at the same hour and for the same space of time. that is not such a tragic thing as possibly it sounds to you. to those who are in prison tears are a part of every day's experience. a day in prison on which one does not weep is a day on which one's heart is hard, not a day on which one's heart is happy. well, now i am really beginning to feel more regret for the people who laughed than for myself. of course when they saw me i was not on my pedestal, i was in the pillory. but it is a very unimaginative nature that only cares for people on their pedestals. a pedestal may be a very unreal thing. a pillory is a terrific reality. they should have known also how to interpret sorrow better. i have said that behind sorrow there is always sorrow. it were wiser still to say that behind sorrow there is always a soul. and to mock at a soul in pain is a dreadful thing. in the strangely simple economy of the world people only get what they give, and to those who have not enough imagination to penetrate the mere outward of things, and feel pity, what pity can be given save that of scorn? i write this account of the mode of my being transferred here simply that it should be realised how hard it has been for me to get anything out of my punishment but bitterness and despair. i have, however, to do it, and now and then i have moments of submission and acceptance. all the spring may be hidden in the single bud, and the low ground nest of the lark may hold the joy that is to herald the feet of many rose-red dawns. so perhaps whatever beauty of life still remains to me is contained in some moment of surrender, abasement, and humiliation. i can, at any rate, merely proceed on the lines of my own development, and, accepting all that has happened to me, make myself worthy of it. people used to say of me that i was too individualistic. i must be far more of an individualist than ever i was. i must get far more out of myself than ever i got, and ask far less of the world than ever i asked. indeed, my ruin came not from too great individualism of life, but from too little. the one disgraceful, unpardonable, and to all time contemptible action of my life was to allow myself to appeal to society for help and protection. to have made such an appeal would have been from the individualist point of view bad enough, but what excuse can there ever be put forward for having made it? of course once i had put into motion the forces of society, society turned on me and said, 'have you been living all this time in defiance of my laws, and do you now appeal to those laws for protection? you shall have those laws exercised to the full. you shall abide by what you have appealed to.' the result is i am in gaol. certainly no man ever fell so ignobly, and by such ignoble instruments, as i did. the philistine element in life is not the failure to understand art. charming people, such as fishermen, shepherds, ploughboys, peasants and the like, know nothing about art, and are the very salt of the earth. he is the philistine who upholds and aids the heavy, cumbrous, blind, mechanical forces of society, and who does not recognise dynamic force when he meets it either in a man or a movement. people thought it dreadful of me to have entertained at dinner the evil things of life, and to have found pleasure in their company. but then, from the point of view through which i, as an artist in life, approach them they were delightfully suggestive and stimulating. the danger was half the excitement. . . . my business as an artist was with ariel. i set myself to wrestle with caliban. . . . a great friend of mine--a friend of ten years' standing--came to see me some time ago, and told me that he did not believe a single word of what was said against me, and wished me to know that he considered me quite innocent, and the victim of a hideous plot. i burst into tears at what he said, and told him that while there was much amongst the definite charges that was quite untrue and transferred to me by revolting malice, still that my life had been full of perverse pleasures, and that unless he accepted that as a fact about me and realised it to the full i could not possibly be friends with him any more, or ever be in his company. it was a terrible shock to him, but we are friends, and i have not got his friendship on false pretences. emotional forces, as i say somewhere in _intentions_, are as limited in extent and duration as the forces of physical energy. the little cup that is made to hold so much can hold so much and no more, though all the purple vats of burgundy be filled with wine to the brim, and the treaders stand knee-deep in the gathered grapes of the stony vineyards of spain. there is no error more common than that of thinking that those who are the causes or occasions of great tragedies share in the feelings suitable to the tragic mood: no error more fatal than expecting it of them. the martyr in his 'shirt of flame' may be looking on the face of god, but to him who is piling the faggots or loosening the logs for the blast the whole scene is no more than the slaying of an ox is to the butcher, or the felling of a tree to the charcoal burner in the forest, or the fall of a flower to one who is mowing down the grass with a scythe. great passions are for the great of soul, and great events can be seen only by those who are on a level with them. * * * * * i know of nothing in all drama more incomparable from the point of view of art, nothing more suggestive in its subtlety of observation, than shakespeare's drawing of rosencrantz and guildenstern. they are hamlet's college friends. they have been his companions. they bring with them memories of pleasant days together. at the moment when they come across him in the play he is staggering under the weight of a burden intolerable to one of his temperament. the dead have come armed out of the grave to impose on him a mission at once too great and too mean for him. he is a dreamer, and he is called upon to act. he has the nature of the poet, and he is asked to grapple with the common complexity of cause and effect, with life in its practical realisation, of which he knows nothing, not with life in its ideal essence, of which he knows so much. he has no conception of what to do, and his folly is to feign folly. brutus used madness as a cloak to conceal the sword of his purpose, the dagger of his will, but the hamlet madness is a mere mask for the hiding of weakness. in the making of fancies and jests he sees a chance of delay. he keeps playing with action as an artist plays with a theory. he makes himself the spy of his proper actions, and listening to his own words knows them to be but 'words, words, words.' instead of trying to be the hero of his own history, he seeks to be the spectator of his own tragedy. he disbelieves in everything, including himself, and yet his doubt helps him not, as it comes not from scepticism but from a divided will. of all this guildenstern and rosencrantz realise nothing. they bow and smirk and smile, and what the one says the other echoes with sickliest intonation. when, at last, by means of the play within the play, and the puppets in their dalliance, hamlet 'catches the conscience' of the king, and drives the wretched man in terror from his throne, guildenstern and rosencrantz see no more in his conduct than a rather painful breach of court etiquette. that is as far as they can attain to in 'the contemplation of the spectacle of life with appropriate emotions.' they are close to his very secret and know nothing of it. nor would there be any use in telling them. they are the little cups that can hold so much and no more. towards the close it is suggested that, caught in a cunning spring set for another, they have met, or may meet, with a violent and sudden death. but a tragic ending of this kind, though touched by hamlet's humour with something of the surprise and justice of comedy, is really not for such as they. they never die. horatio, who in order to 'report hamlet and his cause aright to the unsatisfied,' 'absents him from felicity a while, and in this harsh world draws his breath in pain,' dies, but guildenstern and rosencrantz are as immortal as angelo and tartuffe, and should rank with them. they are what modern life has contributed to the antique ideal of friendship. he who writes a new _de amicitia_ must find a niche for them, and praise them in tusculan prose. they are types fixed for all time. to censure them would show 'a lack of appreciation.' they are merely out of their sphere: that is all. in sublimity of soul there is no contagion. high thoughts and high emotions are by their very existence isolated. * * * * * i am to be released, if all goes well with me, towards the end of may, and hope to go at once to some little sea-side village abroad with r--- and m---. the sea, as euripides says in one of his plays about iphigeneia, washes away the stains and wounds of the world. i hope to be at least a month with my friends, and to gain peace and balance, and a less troubled heart, and a sweeter mood. i have a strange longing for the great simple primeval things, such as the sea, to me no less of a mother than the earth. it seems to me that we all look at nature too much, and live with her too little. i discern great sanity in the greek attitude. they never chattered about sunsets, or discussed whether the shadows on the grass were really mauve or not. but they saw that the sea was for the swimmer, and the sand for the feet of the runner. they loved the trees for the shadow that they cast, and the forest for its silence at noon. the vineyard-dresser wreathed his hair with ivy that he might keep off the rays of the sun as he stooped over the young shoots, and for the artist and the athlete, the two types that greece gave us, they plaited with garlands the leaves of the bitter laurel and of the wild parsley, which else had been of no service to men. we call ours a utilitarian age, and we do not know the uses of any single thing. we have forgotten that water can cleanse, and fire purify, and that the earth is mother to us all. as a consequence our art is of the moon and plays with shadows, while greek art is of the sun and deals directly with things. i feel sure that in elemental forces there is purification, and i want to go back to them and live in their presence. of course to one so modern as i am, 'enfant de mon siecle,' merely to look at the world will be always lovely. i tremble with pleasure when i think that on the very day of my leaving prison both the laburnum and the lilac will be blooming in the gardens, and that i shall see the wind stir into restless beauty the swaying gold of the one, and make the other toss the pale purple of its plumes, so that all the air shall be arabia for me. linnaeus fell on his knees and wept for joy when he saw for the first time the long heath of some english upland made yellow with the tawny aromatic brooms of the common furze; and i know that for me, to whom flowers are part of desire, there are tears waiting in the petals of some rose. it has always been so with me from my boyhood. there is not a single colour hidden away in the chalice of a flower, or the curve of a shell, to which, by some subtle sympathy with the very soul of things, my nature does not answer. like gautier, i have always been one of those 'pour qui le monde visible existe.' still, i am conscious now that behind all this beauty, satisfying though it may be, there is some spirit hidden of which the painted forms and shapes are but modes of manifestation, and it is with this spirit that i desire to become in harmony. i have grown tired of the articulate utterances of men and things. the mystical in art, the mystical in life, the mystical in nature this is what i am looking for. it is absolutely necessary for me to find it somewhere. all trials are trials for one's life, just as all sentences are sentences of death; and three times have i been tried. the first time i left the box to be arrested, the second time to be led back to the house of detention, the third time to pass into a prison for two years. society, as we have constituted it, will have no place for me, has none to offer; but nature, whose sweet rains fall on unjust and just alike, will have clefts in the rocks where i may hide, and secret valleys in whose silence i may weep undisturbed. she will hang the night with stars so that i may walk abroad in the darkness without stumbling, and send the wind over my footprints so that none may track me to my hurt: she will cleanse me in great waters, and with bitter herbs make me whole.