the authors have responded thoroughly to my comments. i am still concerned
about residual confounding by nutrients (e.g. saturated fat, salt), even though
the reviewers have strengthened this discussion in the manuscript. i also agree
with other reviewers who mentioned the fact that ultra-processed food covers
such a broad spectrum of foods, but it will be interesting to see further research
into neoformed compounds, contact materials, etc.

<|EndOfText|>

this paper examines total soy products as well as sub-groups including fermented soy
products and natto and the relationship with all-cause and cause-specific mortality. the
authors find an inverse association between intake of fermented soy products and all-cause
mortality and an inverse association between intake of natto and cardiovascular mortality.
the question about whether soy products are beneficial is of general interest, and
importantly only cohorts studies conducted in japanese or other populations who consume
a decent amount of soy can really look at the associations between soy intake and health
outcomes. there have been a few other studies from japan on soy products. these
previous studies are all mentioned in the current paper, and include the study by nagata et
al. (am j clin nutr 2017) which similarly found an inverse association between natto
consumption and mortality from cardiovascular disease (and stroke), but i don't think
looked at all fermented soy products as a group. this was the only other cohort study i
found that specifically looked at natto, and the other studies (e.g. yamasaki et al. 2015
and kokubo et al, 2007) did not look at fermented soy or natto. so i think the novelty of
the current study is in separating out fermented soy products and also looking at natto
separately, as more data on this particular product is needed.
i have a couple of comments about the presentation of the results:
1. firstly, table 1 shows participant characteristics in quintiles of total soy product intake. i
think this should stay, but i would also like to see in the supplementary tables, a similar
table but for natto and/or fermented soy products. it seems from this study that
natto/fermented soy products are particularly beneficial, but an alternative explanation is
that the relationship between these sub-types of soy products and mortality is more
affected by residual confounding, so it would be helpful to see participant characteristics by
natto and/or fermented soy products.
2. there is also a bit of repetition in what is presented in table 4 (the associations between
fermented soy and natto and deaths from specific causes) and supplementary tables 1
and 2 which present associations between intake of each of the soy sub-types (including
natto and fermented soy) and cause-specific deaths. you could take natto and fermented
soy out of supplementary tables 1 and 2, but actually i prefer removing table 4, and
shifting supplementary tables 1 and 2 into the main body of the paper. this is because
there are some other associations in these tables that don't get mentioned in the text, i.e.
the inverse association between soy isoflavone, and soy fibre and heart disease in men.
other specific comments:
3. introduction, line 67. the sentence beginning 'one reason for the increasing rates of
such diseases' needs clarification because rates of heart disease have been declining for
many decades in many western countries. which countries are you referring to here?

4. introduction, line 91. instead of using the word 'benefits' i suggest re-phrasing to use a
more neutral phrase, about more definitive data about the association (because i don't
think that is total consensus about soy consumption and health to say that soy is
definitively beneficial).
5. methods, line 201. i'm not sure what is meant by the phrase 'vulnerable opinions'.
6. results, lines 229-232, are these sensitivity analyses shown in the tables?
7. discussion, line 249, there seems to be a '44' accidently inserted here.
8. discussion, line 278. instead of saying negative findings, i suggest changing to 'null'
findings, to avoid confusion (as negative may mean inverse association to some). also on
line 280, i suggest inserting 'may', as in 'the bioactive components of soy products may
modulate their...'
9. discussion, line 287. i think you need to re-phrase this to make it clear that after the
comma you are meaning that fermented soy products are also rich in other bioactive
components.

<|EndOfText|>

originality of the work
this study investigates the association between ultra-processed food consumption
and cardiovascular disease in a large cohort in france. previous studies on
ultra-processed food have simply examined the consumption of ultra-processed
foods in sub-groups of the population (e.g. correa en et al. sao paulo med j
2018;200-207), or the association between consumption of ultra-processed food and
other risk factors, such as bmi (e.g juul f et al. br j nutr 2018;120:90-100 and
cunha db et al. nutr diabetes 2018;8:28). there is hardly any literature on
ultra-processed foods and disease outcomes. this research group has previously

published on ultra-processed food and cancer risk in the same cohort and in the
current paper they report on cardiovascular disease risk. as far as i can see, this is
the first study to investigate the association between ultra-processed foods and risk
of cardiovascular disease. this paper takes a different approach to traditional
nutritional epidemiology papers, which normally look at the association between a
macronutrient or micronutrient or a food group and disease risk. in the current
paper, the exposure is the proportion of the diet that is ultra-processed. it is an
interesting approach, and one that could perhaps be easier to translate into advice
(i.e. limiting intake of ultra-processed food items, compared to say advice on intake
of nutrients). on the other hand, i wonder what component of the ultra-processed
food is responsible for these associations (is it the nutrient composition, or the other
components?). overall, i think this is an interesting way to look at the food
environment and complements more traditional nutritional epidemiological studies.
importance of work to general readers
i think a general journal is a good fit for this work. ‘ultra-processed foods’ is
becoming an increasingly used term; however, there is a lack of research on the
associations between ultra-processed foods and disease outcomes. i think this work
would be of interest to clinicians and patients and to policymakers.
methods
the research question is clearly defined. the strobe guidelines appear to have
been followed.
the participants are described briefly in this paper and the reader is referred to a
previous paper which describes in the cohort in detail. the dietary assessment
methods are clearly described. the authors included participants who had completed
at least two 24-hour dietary records, i think this is an acceptable and pragmatic
balance between ensuring sufficient number of participants in the study and trying
to get an estimate of habitual or usual diet. most participants had more than 2
records. the self-administered dietary assessment method has been validated. the
classification of foods into ultra-processed and the other categories was done by a
team of dieticians and nutritional epidemiologists and appears sensible. the way the
exposure variable is categorised is by proportion of the diet on a weight basis (e.g.
% of g/day). the authors argue this is a better choice than categorising based on
energy because for example artificially sweetened beverages do not contain energy,
but still contain additives that would classify them as processed – i agree with the
authors approach. the study has ethical approval and i have no ethical issues with
the study.
1.
the flow chart is given in supplementary material but i would prefer it to be
moved to the main paper.
outcome identification
as i understand it, the participants self-report major health events through
questionnaires. if an event is declared participants send medical records for review
by study physicians. also the cohort is linked to national health insurance
administrative database and the national mortality registry, which should identify
participants who may not have self-reported events. it may be possible that some
events are missed although this dilution effect would not have a major effect on the
results. if study physicians review medical records for those that self-report events
this should minimise false positive reports (which is more of a concern in terms of
impacts on the results).
2.

what proportion of the cohort can be linked to the insurance database?

3.
what are the icd-10 codes that correspond to each of the outcomes (cvd,
stroke, tia, mi, and angioplasty)?

results
the tables are well presented and clear.
interpretation and conclusions
my main concern about the findings would be around residual confounding by other
factors.the authors do mention this in the limitations briefly, but perhaps this
discussion could be expanded a bit. i found it interesting in appendix 7, when
looking at the specific categories of ultra-processed foods, that fats and sauces and
salty snacks particularly have strong associations with cvd. it made me think that
nutrition composition may be driving the associations with cvd, although the results
were attenuated, but not by much when additional dietary factors were added to the
model.
4.
what is the basis for the statement that repeated 24-hour dietary records
are more accurate than ffqs? page 10, line 20? do the authors have a reference to
support this statement?

references
references are appropriate, no obvious omissions.
other minor comments:
5.

introduction, line 26, is it supposed to be ‘plant/animal food cells’?

6.
discussion, page 9, line 31, were the results adjusted for western-type
dietary pattern, or only the healthy dietary pattern? the footnotes for table 2
suggest just the healthy dietary pattern.
dr kathryn bradbury
