bmj.053803
association between newly-diagnosed atrial fibrillation and the excess risk of death: temporal trends
over 40 years in the framingham heart study
statistical review:
in this article, the authors have unique data collected as part of the framingham heart study to analyse
changes in the prognosis of af, specifically excess risk of death, over time. the results suggest that
although there have been improvements in both early identification and treatment of this patient group,
af is still strongly associated with an increased risk, impacting on a reduction in life expectancy of
around 2years (compared to non-af).
given the nature of the data, this study should be able not only to provide an adequate description of
the continuing increased risk but also explore some of the potential issues regarding changes over time.
specifically (as mentioned in the discussion) if there has been a change in the population identified as
having af and/or in their treatment.
in short, the main questions that they should be able to address (besides a pure description of a
continuous elevated risk) are:

a) what are the similarities/differences of these different ‘epochs’ overall (e.g. baseline characteristics
like sbp, treatments, etc). are these pointing towards a ‘healthier’ cohort or a more multimorbid cohort
in each ‘epoch’?
b) what are the similarities/differences of these cohorts at time of diagnosis? specifically, for the af
group, is the assumption of early identification of low-risk individuals (as mentioned in the discussion)
valid?
c) is the treatment provided to the af group changing (improving) over time? this is also touched on in
the discussion and is mentioned as part of the limitation. given their timeline it would not be unlikely
that the improvements suggested have reached a plateau and hence there is no evidence of a trend.
this might be the case that any information (even if incomplete would be better than no information.
it might be that no further information is available, in which case, a more extended limitation section in
the discussion would be relevant to address these points.
besides this, there are several issues (listed below) which would help clarify and expand on some of the
findings presented.
issues to clarify:
choice of epochs
-please provide an explanation for the decision to group the data into three epochs. currently, the
manuscript does not specifically explain the choice of a) number of epochs nor b) the reasons for
choosing those years as cut-offs.

participants
-please provide a figure with the timelines for the different cohorts/examinations/measures linking to the
identification of the epochs. if possible, also include in this figure (or an alternative one) information for
the identification of the data used in the ‘population analysis’ as well as for the ‘matched analysis’.
-the identification of af is based on the visits/examinations during any given epoch. please provide
information (possibly as a supplement) about the number of visits and who attended these visits. the
increased number of diagnoses (proportional) in epoch 2 might need explaining too.
-related, please comment if there is a bias created by controls providing information into several
epochs.
covariates included
-given that the significant improvement observed over time has been on cvd mortality, it would have
been particularly useful to have included lipid measures (at baseline) as a relevant covariate as well as
lipid treatment (e.g. statins) in a similar way as antihypertensives are reported. if not available, this
might need to be included as an important limitation.
statistical analyses
-the choice of different study designs (population based and matched cases-controls) is adequately
described, but please expand here as to which is used as primary analysis and why.

-i am unclear on the use of meta-regression to evaluate a time trend. is this based on 3 ‘datapoints’? if
so, a comment on the power of such approach would be useful. related, there are a number of
comparisons (for trend) presented in the paper, a mention in the limitation section of the potential for
spurious finding given this would be appropriate.
-critically, the analysis based on rmst reaches a different conclusion to that of the time-varying
covariates cox model. please discuss include (probably in the limitations) an explanation as to why
these differences occur. i imagine it is due to the way the time-varying covariates are incorporated to
the models, but this might require some clarification.
tables
-table 2 gives total number and events but for the whole population. please provide these also for the
af group for each of the epochs.
figures
- figure one will need some adjustments. current one has a problem with overlap of text confidence
intervals and graphical ones. suggest maybe separating using lines?
-figure 2. please provide light coloured grid to aid with comparisons across different epochs. (similar
issue for figures s2 and s3)
-figure s4 – substantial reduction in cumulative incidence of cardiovascular death. this would need
some discussion/interpretation. see point above about lipid levels and use of lipid lowering drugs.


<|EndOfText|>

bmj 51219.r1
association between prescription opioid cessation, duration on opioids, and overdose or
suicide mortality among us veterans: an observational evaluation
stats report:
the authors have adjusted their manuscript accordingly and most of the comments made by
the reviewers have been answered adequately. there are a few of minor points that are
nevertheless important in relation to the correct reporting of this research.

the first one is about the models used in their analysis. the authors mention the use of
survival models but do not clarify what these are based on. most likely, given the reported
use of sas phreg, is that these are cox proportional hazard models with time varying
covariates to take into account the interaction observed between duration of opioid
treatment and cessation with the outcome (overdose/suicide). in any case, the authors do
need to be more explicit about the models used and, as requested initially, how they dealt
with checking for the assumptions their model uses (like any model). these will only require
a couple of sentences in the methods and if necessary adding some supplementary material
as appendix.
the second point is regarding their life table graphs. given the way the data are collected, it
is not surprising that the majority of the events used in these estimates are concentrated in
the first year. the impact of this is that the estimates towards the end of the second year
are highly volatile, particularly for figure 1.b. i would suggest that to prevent people from
focusing on these volatile estimates, the authors should present the data only for the first
year of follow-up (or first 18 months) in the main manuscript. the current figures could be
presented as supplementary material instead. providing a table with the absolute numbers,
actual estimates, and the precision around these estimates would also be particularly useful
(supplement).
regarding this last point, the values reported for the models (e.g. table 2) with the hr and
95%ci provide a good measure of the precision around these estimates. unfortunately as
there are no hr reported for the interactions (correctly, to minimise confusion), there is not
information regarding the precision around these estimates for the interaction. please
provide a similar table as supplementary material with the parameter estimates and the
standard errors for these estimates for the models reported in table 2 and appendix 3.
finally, after reading the manuscript i could not find what they have used as index date for
their survival analyses. i assume it was 1 october, 2012 as that was the start date for the
cohort. in any case, please make it explicit somewhere.


<|EndOfText|>

stats review:
critical (in abstract and main body of manuscript) - whenever reporting means (results), please also provide sds
in abstract - please specify that these are number of coffees/person x years. there is some confusion here as in the
‘outcome measures’ it says ‘total coffee purchased over a calendar year …’ but then in the results these are ported as
per individuals ‘male doctors bought…’

in ‘what this study adds’ depending on editors, this could read ‘purchasing habits’ instead of ‘drinking habits’. similarly
‘surgeons purchase most coffee’. nevertheless purchasing can be regarded as a very good proxy for drinking (this might
be included as a limitation or potentially in the background).
statistical methods:
if they are interested in pairwise comparisons, as they have several groups that can be compared they are likely to need
some kind of adjustment for multiple comparisons (if they want to do formal hypothesis testing). the option of just
presenting 95%ci does not deal with this multiple comparisons. having said that, if their intention is just to rank the
specialties by coffee consumption then this should be ok and just use anova to say that there were differences.
it depends on what they are interested in doing, formally test for differences or just present descriptive statistics of
coffee consumption.
they need to specify more clearly in the methods their unit of analysis. for their primary analysis it seems it is just total
number of coffees consumed. however, for the specialty analysis (as well as gender) it appears to be coffees x person x
year (and not coffees x year) by specialty. this is mention in the results but please clarify in the methods.
same as above for the outcome of “rounds”

<|EndOfText|>

in this version of the manuscript, further adjustments for relevant conditions occurring
within the exposure timeframe were carried out. the findings have remained robust to these
adjustments and therefore the potential for reverse causality has been minimised.
i think this current version is suitable for publication. i have one very minor point in the results section when describing the strength in association between paee and
deltapaee with the different outcomes, the point estimates for all analyses are consistent
but as the models adjust for more covariates and the number of participants/events
decrease, the confidence intervals for the effect of pa on 'cancer mortality' includes 'no
effect'. this is correctly reported for the sensitivity analyses but is not included in the
reporting of the primary analysis. please correct for consistency.

additional questions:
please enter your name: rafael perera
job title: professor of medical statistics
institution: university of oxford
reimbursement for attending a symposium?: no
a fee for speaking?: no
a fee for organising education?: no
funds for research?: no
funds for a member of staff?: no
fees for consulting?: no
have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: no
do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: no
if you have any competing interests <a
href='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see bmj policy) </a>please declare
them here: none



<|EndOfText|>

the current version of the manuscript has improved in general clarity and has corrected some incorrect
analyses that assumed independence. i believe the authors have adequately replied to reviewers’
comments. there are however some relatively minor issues that i believe still need to be addressed:
1) the use of a composite outcome – treatment/mortality. in the discussion the comment regarding the
use of a composite outcome is partially adequate. it would be useful to explain if there are any
disadvantages of using a composite. particularly since this outcome is dominated by the ‘treatment’ part as
the number of deaths are relatively few.
2) the use of youden index to define thresholds is adequate but please can you clarify in the text if the
thresholds were identified so that the y index was maximised?
3) from the description of the data it was not entirely clear to me that glasgow, odense and trouro
provided data – those at low risk still entered information although the management of these individuals
was different to those in other centres. in the discussion there should be a statement as to how this might
bias the results or if this is not relevant (with similar treatments being given to this group in other
centres).
4) missing data per score is reported but it is not clear in the report how this was handled. it is mentioned
at several points in the manuscript that the authors used ‘complete case’ analysis such that only
participants with all scores were included. this needs to be re-stated in the results, possibly using some
form of flowchart/figure to describe this.
5) supplementary table 5 – please provide p-values instead of stating ‘ns’ (not significant).

<|EndOfText|>

the authors have responded to reviewers comments adequately and i would be happy to
support publication of the manuscript. having said that, there are three minor points that
the authors might want to consider as i think will aid with some of the clarity in the
results.
1) figure(s) 2 - please provide within each subfigure a label to identify which exposure
marker is being used for the comparison. this is done in the figure legends but given the
number of subfigures, it would be much easier for a reader to keep track on each individual
plot.
2) figure(s) 3 - the points representing each one of the studies are misleading as, i
believe, these are not what are being used to generate the splines. in a simple view, there
is a perception that all dots are 'in the middle" suggesting generally that there is no
association. the issue with this is that these dots are averages and do not take into
consideration the differences within each study (which is the real strength in this paper).
please could you either delete these dots or think of alternative ways to represent this
information which would not confuse readers?
3) the use of the newcastle-ottawa scale might attract criticism as robins-i is now seen
as a better (certainly newer) option. please could you consider mentioning this in your
limitations section? the robins-i page in cochrane even suggests that the n-o score is
an alternative so this might be used as reference.


<|EndOfText|>

stats report:
this manuscript uses medical and pharmacy administrative claims from a large
database to evaluate the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding found in new cases of
individuals taking dabigatran and rivaroxaban comparing against those found in new
cases of people taking warfarin. as there are important differences in the
characteristics of the individuals in each of these groups, the authors use propensity
scores to obtain matched (1:1) samples between intervention and control. the
authors present results separately for the group with and without atrial fibrillation
and find little difference overall but significant interactions with age suggest that
recommendations for treatment need to take age into consideration.
after reviewing the authors’ replies to the reviewers of the original manuscript, i
believe many of the queries have been solved but unfortunately not all. these are
summarized below:
main points:
information in the abstract – the data source quoted here, although not incorrect, is
misleading. the total population on which this analysis was based on is less than 20k
individuals for each comparison. please correct/clarify. the “main outcomes” talk

about incidence rates and cox proportional hazard ratios. however, the “results” only
provide crude incidence rates of two of the groups (not for warfarin) and no hrs.
please give incidence rates for all groups with confidence intervals (not currently
provided) as well as the hrs (with cis) for the main comparisons – total bleeding by
noac by af/non_af. i assume that the age interaction was part of the primary
objective and hence at least the most relevant hrs (e.g. for age 75+) should also
appear in the results so that the current “conclusion” is adequately supported.
no inclusion of mortality/effectiveness data: - a major issue arising from the
introduction is that, within rcts, evidence of equivalence in efficacy with extra rates
of adverse events has been identified. the manuscript presents evidence that in “real
life” there is no evidence of extra adverse events. however, the same analysis could
(should?) be done to determine if in “real life” equivalence of effect (in stroke and
systolic embolism) is found. from the data reported, although the authors do not
have access to mortality data, they appear to have access to stroke (as an event).
presenting if the finding of equivalence in effect on stroke prevention in the present
data is maintained would therefore help to interpret the findings in light of the
evidence obtained from rcts.
one-to-one matching:- related to the issue of total sample size, the 1:1 matching
seems excessive as many of the warfarin cases are not used (more than 50% lost).
given that in some of these comparisons there are borderline statistically significant
findings (“less gib found in the dabigatran group”) it would have made sense have
tried for as many matches as possible. this needs at least to be mentioned in the
discussion (excluded more than half of the information in the warfarin group). this
has potential issues about generalizability of the findings to the overall population
somewhat mentioned in the discussion when talking about o-t-c aspiring use.
use of language about statistical significance:- in terms of reporting, the phrase
“dabigatran had a slightly lower risk of gib” (page 10, line 5) needs changing. based
on the 95%ci there is no evidence of difference between the risks in the two groups.
figures 2 and 3:- please delete the multiple comparisons with the p-values associated
(presented as text in the graphs). these would need to be adjusted (bonferroni?) to
deal with multiple comparisons and in any case all the information is provided by the
graph with the point estimate and confidence intervals. it would be more useful to
instead provide the total sample for each of the age groups by intervention.
new data:- the data for figures a7 to a10 in the appendix are not used/discussed in
the manuscript. there seems to be a considerable difference between these graphs
(a7 to a10) and what appears in table 3 and figures 1 and 2. going through the
“response to reviewers” it is apparent that these are the crude event rates by age
group used to create figures 2 and 3. please add explanation to these in the
appendix.


<|EndOfText|>

bmj 49220- sacrospinous hysteropexy versus vaginal hysterectomy with uterosacral ligament
suspension in women with uterine prolapse stage 2 or higher: 5-year follow-up of a multicentre
randomised trial
stats review:
the manuscript reports on the 5-year follow-up from a trial which initially was setup to determine if
sacrospinous hysteropexy (sh) was non-inferior to vaginal hysterectomy. in this manuscript the focus is
now on superiority of sh instead of non-inferiority (established in the first paper with 2 year follow-up).
the published protocol anticipated that superiority of sh could be identified and therefore this analysis is
consistent with the published protocol.
there is however an important issue with this reporting and is related to completeness of follow-up and
use of the statistical analysis based on imputed values. the imputation of lvcf could be potentially
biased depending on other factors related to the intervention. it is unclear to me (as a non-content
expert) how this incomplete follow-up would impact on the assumptions required by the different
imputation approaches used.
instead, as the primary outcome and most of the outcomes for table 2 are ‘events’, i would suggest the
use of a time-to-event approach, that is survival methods, even if the timing is not entirely well defined.
this will allow for estimation of hazard ratios hr, assuming proportionality of hazards, and use of data
up to the time of censoring reducing the need for imputation. even in the case that proportional hazards
could not be used, kaplan-meir plots and estimates should be presented to describe the way these
events occurred (for the primary and possibly for some of the relevant secondary outcomes).
another important issue regarding the primary outcome is that as the number of events is small, it
would be extremely useful to provide a table with the actual available data (event, when, if imputed,
why) as part of the supplementary material.


<|EndOfText|>

bmj.56995 appropriate personal protective equipment protects healthcare professionals from covid-19
stats report
the current manuscript presents analyses of evidence of sars-cov-2 infection in a target group of 420
health care providers that were directly treating covid-19 patients while wearing substantial (defined as
‘appropriate’ by the authors) protective equipment; and two controls: i) 77 health care providers that
were not in contact with covid-19 patients, and ii) 80 recovered covid-19 patients.
the tests to evaluate evidence of infection were: rt-pcr (based on nasopharyngeal swabs) for active
infection, and igm and igg (based on serum samples) for historic exposure to sars-cov-2. results
from all three tests (rt-pcr, igm, and igg) are reported only for the target group (exposed hcp with
‘appropriate’ protective equipment). only serology results (igm and igg) are available for the controls.
the results show no active infection (rt-pcr) or historical exposure (igm or igg) in the target group.
the control group of non-exposed hcp show no evidence of historical exposure (all igm and igg results
below a predefined threshold), while for recovered covid019 patients, the igg levels all suggest past
exposure. for this group, findings for igm are equivocal, with only 5/80 showing levels above the
diagnostic threshold.
these findings suggest that the protection used was indeed adequate. however, there are substantial
gaps in the reporting to make sense of a) the intervention (‘adequate protective equipment and ways of
using it’) and b) the baseline infection rate expected.
a) intervention
some of this information is likely to be better suited for supplementary material but we need to have a
much better description of the intervention. please have a look at the tidier checklist (doi:
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.g1687) for guidance of the level of information required. in particular,
further information not only of the protective equipment but also of the training given for its use would
be highly relevant. if possible, please provide either documents or other material (e.g. video) to describe
this. the objective would be for someone reading this paper to be able to replicate this.
b) baseline infection rate expected
we need to be able to understand if these comparisons (exposed vs. controls) are meaningful. for this,
we need to have greater detail about particularly about all groups on their characteristics regarding at
least age and gender (all three groups). also, for the group of recovered patients, please provide:
• some measures of use of health care system while identified as infected: basic information of
treatment and if they were hospitalised and where
• some measure of severity of illness (e.g. ventilators, etc.)
• time between confirmed active sars and serology tests
although not currently included in the manuscript, information of what were the infection rate in health
care practitioners without appropriate protective equipment, would be very useful. it might be
possible to get an estimate of this from historic records before the sars-cov-2 infection was recognised

(and hence protective equipment were not being used). this will likely be an underestimate but it would
help understand the baseline infection rate expected.
other issues:
reporting of tests. please provide how many of the tests reported valid results (all tests) and in case of
invalid/missing please explain what approach was taken (complete case analysis, imputation, etc.).
discussion: please comment on the lack of community transmission in in your health care provider
groups (exposed and non-exposed). where they living in areas not normally exposed to this? other
reasons?
table 1 : please convert this into two separate tables. one providing characteristics for all groups (see
point above). a second one providing information of agps operations carried out. this last one might be
useful as supplementary material instead of main text.
figure 1: is the reference range, red line, the threshold as specified by the test supplier? if not, please
provide thresholds are based on test supplier data.


<|EndOfText|>

the authors have replied to all reviewers' comments. they have done an excellent job and the
manuscript is clear and accurate. there are two very minor points that can be addressed as part of the
final editorial process but have no impact on the adequacy of the science or the reporting. these are:
a) for tables s3, s4, & s5 - please change label to read:
'data are mean (standard deviation) or percentages.'
and
b) figures s5 to s8 - please provide grids to enhance comparability. similar to the ones given in figure
2.
i am happy to support publication of the current version of this manuscript in the bmj.

<|EndOfText|>

bmj-2020-059724.r1- pharmacologic treatment for covid-19: living systematic review and network
meta-analysis

i believe that the authors have responded to all reviewers’ questions. i was particularly glad to see that
they have decided to include results only for those treatments where a minimum sample size (100
patients or 20 events) had been accrued. having said that, this is likely to have been a post-hoc
adjustment and requires a mention in the limitations section. related to this, given that the results are
only given for those interventions with 100+ patients or 20 events, a sensitivity analysis of the models
including only those interventions would be appropriate. consider running models to check that results
are robust to this.
major point for journal or for adjustment by authors:
many thanks for including the information regarding the extracted data for all studies. as the authors
comment, this information is easy to visualise and use as an excel spreadsheet but impossible to use as
a pdf. please can the journal (with the authors) make sure this information is available to readers. as a
related issue, the current pdf version of the manuscript has hundreds of pages that are impossible to
read/use.
critical issue:
recommendations and conclusions (including abstract) for dexamethasone are based on the direct
evidence estimate. given that you advocate for a nma as the main way of answering the question, there
is a need for some nuance regarding this. i am a bit conflicted as i understand why you have done this
but scientifically, i would have expected a primary analysis/results based on a nma estimates with
discussion around why this might have not been robust. this is also important as the results are
expected to be updated once new data are available.
minor edits:
- runaway sentence from a previous version of the sr looking at prevention:
“outcomes of interest for prophylaxis of covid-19 include mortality, infection with covid-19,
hospitalization, adverse events leading to discontinuation, and time to symptom resolution or clinical
improvement.”
- sentence needs writing in the past tense:
“we will use a plausible prior for variance parameter, and uniform prior for the effect parameter
suggested by turner et al based on empiric data.”
- when explaining in the methods their use of absolute measures of risk:
“for all other outcomes, we used the mean or median from all studies in which participants received
standard of care for each outcome.”
please explain how you pooled the data for the means (simple addition?).


<|EndOfText|>

stats report for bmj – efficacy and safety of first-line treatments for advanced
egfr-mutated nsclc: a systematic review and network meta-analysis
the manuscript presents results from 19 trials evaluating several interventions used as
first-line treatment for advanced egfr-mutated nsclc relying on a network meta-analysis
to draw conclusions about comparable efficacy and safety across these interventions. the
findings are novel and potentially relevant but there are several issues that need addressing
to make sure that these are: a) accurate and b) placed in context given the sparsity of data
in this area.
• major issue is one of data sparseness. the number of comparisons made and estimates
obtained is way beyond the number of comparisons in the original studies. this has
implications regarding the reliance on prior distributions and assumptions of transitivity and
consistency of the network used to obtain these estimates. this needs to be highlighted in
the discussion section as a critical limitation.
• critical to know the aes for each of the drugs, this is part of the same aspect of the
evaluation. please provide in your manuscript a description of the ae typically observed and
particularly if these differ by type of intervention.
• with regards to the reporting of the model used, more clarity is required about the priors
used. it is unclear how given the low number of studies included, a non-informative prior will
allow the model to converge. if possible, sensitivity analyses using alternative priors would
allow evaluation of the robustness of your findings.
• related to the above, the reporting of the mcmc methods used is not adequate. in
particular: the differences between three chains, the burn-in, the number of iterations (after
burn in) and the way ‘convergence’ was assessed needs to be reported better and
separately.
• the statement that ‘transitivity has been ensured’ is not scientific. this is impossible to
ascertain. at best you can say that, ‘to minimise issues arising from potential lack of
transitivity, …’. as part of this, please carry out an evaluation of important study and patient
characteristics was done once data were collected to assess network transitivity and report
this as well (including which characteristics were evaluated).
• the assumption made for the flaura study, analysis of the erlotinib and gefitinib arm, is a
strong one which needs evaluating as part of a sensitivity analysis to check what effect this
has on the results. the simplest option would be to remove this trial in a sensitivity analysis
but alternatives could also be explored.
• for the pairwise meta-analysis, the approach of model selection based on heterogeneity
creates a biased estimate. this is definitely not recommended. please review this and
adjust appropriately. the model selection should be based on previous assumptions of
comparability/equivalence of interventions/outcomes and should be done before evaluation

of heterogeneity. sensitivity analyses based on alternative models could be an alternative
(and reported as supplementary material).
• related to the above, as you have used a fixed-effect approach for your bayesian nma
then i would suggest that a fe model for the pairwise comparisons would also be applicable.
if you decide to switch to a re for the pairwise comparisons, this would also impact on
potentially switching to a re for the bayesian nma model. regardless of your choice, this
will need to be justified in the manuscript and commented on in the discussion (limitations).
• although you have assessed local inconsistency (pairwise comparisons estimates vs
bayesian nma estimates) please also assess and report the global inconsistency of your
network. see: dias s, welton nj, sutton aj, et al. nice dsu technical support document 4:
inconsistency in networks of evidence based on randomised controlled trials. 2011; for
reference. regarding this, to deliver a proper comparison between nma and pairwise
comparisons, the same statistical approach (bayesian or frequentist) should be applied.
credible intervals are not directly comparable with confidence intervals. this should at least
need to be included in the discussion section.
• the funnel plots provided are of no use given the number of trials included in each
comparison, please delete them and explain why these were not used in your limitation
section.


<|EndOfText|>

stats report:
this manuscript uses medical and pharmacy administrative claims from a large
database to evaluate the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding found in new cases of
individuals taking dabigatran and rivaroxaban comparing against those found in new
cases of people taking warfarin. as there are important differences in the
characteristics of the individuals in each of these groups, the authors use propensity
scores to obtain matched (1:1) samples between intervention and control. the
authors present results separately for the group with and without atrial fibrillation
and find little difference overall but significant interactions with age suggest that
recommendations for treatment need to take age into consideration.
after reviewing the authors’ replies to the reviewers of the original manuscript, i
believe many of the queries have been solved but unfortunately not all. these are
summarized below:
main points:
information in the abstract – the data source quoted here, although not incorrect, is
misleading. the total population on which this analysis was based on is less than 20k
individuals for each comparison. please correct/clarify. the “main outcomes” talk
about incidence rates and cox proportional hazard ratios. however, the “results” only
provide crude incidence rates of two of the groups (not for warfarin) and no hrs.
please give incidence rates for all groups with confidence intervals (not currently
provided) as well as the hrs (with cis) for the main comparisons – total bleeding by
noac by af/non_af. i assume that the age interaction was part of the primary
objective and hence at least the most relevant hrs (e.g. for age 75+) should also
appear in the results so that the current “conclusion” is adequately supported.
no inclusion of mortality/effectiveness data: - a major issue arising from the
introduction is that, within rcts, evidence of equivalence in efficacy with extra rates
of adverse events has been identified. the manuscript presents evidence that in “real
life” there is no evidence of extra adverse events. however, the same analysis could
(should?) be done to determine if in “real life” equivalence of effect (in stroke and
systolic embolism) is found. from the data reported, although the authors do not
have access to mortality data, they appear to have access to stroke (as an event).
presenting if the finding of equivalence in effect on stroke prevention in the present
data is maintained would therefore help to interpret the findings in light of the
evidence obtained from rcts.
one-to-one matching:- related to the issue of total sample size, the 1:1 matching
seems excessive as many of the warfarin cases are not used (more than 50% lost).
given that in some of these comparisons there are borderline statistically significant
findings (“less gib found in the dabigatran group”) it would have made sense have
tried for as many matches as possible. this needs at least to be mentioned in the
discussion (excluded more than half of the information in the warfarin group). this
has potential issues about generalizability of the findings to the overall population
somewhat mentioned in the discussion when talking about o-t-c aspiring use.

use of language about statistical significance:- in terms of reporting, the phrase
“dabigatran had a slightly lower risk of gib” (page 10, line 5) needs changing. based
on the 95%ci there is no evidence of difference between the risks in the two groups.
figures 2 and 3:- please delete the multiple comparisons with the p-values associated
(presented as text in the graphs). these would need to be adjusted (bonferroni?) to
deal with multiple comparisons and in any case all the information is provided by the
graph with the point estimate and confidence intervals. it would be more useful to
instead provide the total sample for each of the age groups by intervention.
new data:- the data for figures a7 to a10 in the appendix are not used/discussed in
the manuscript. there seems to be a considerable difference between these graphs
(a7 to a10) and what appears in table 3 and figures 1 and 2. going through the
“response to reviewers” it is apparent that these are the crude event rates by age
group used to create figures 2 and 3. please add explanation to these in the
appendix.


<|EndOfText|>

bmj – stats review
this systematic review evaluates the evidence for hospital hygiene promotion with particular emphasis on that
identified for who-5 (system change, education, feedback, reminders, and institutional safety climate). reduced
evidence was identified from rcts but the inclusion of other study designs, in particular interrupted time series,
provides more information about the comparative effectiveness of several strategies. there is a major issue in
that the current use of network meta-analysis given the sparse data is not adequate. this is highlighted by the
estimate obtained for t8 (obtained from a double indirect comparison: t8 vs t3, t3 vs t11, t11 vs t1).
one potential solution is to drop altogether the nma and focus only on the direct pairwise comparisons while an
alternative is to restructure the current network and reclassify the interventions into 4 categories:t1, t2 to t6,
t7, t7+. this way, a complete network could be created (leaving nodes not in the network out, such as t4, t5,
and t8) and a comparison of who5 vs. none, who-5 vs who-5+ could be made. from the introduction and the
discussion, this appears to be the main focus of the paper. the choice will clearly depend on the coherence of this
grouping. if not appropriate, please drop the attempt to use nma and just report pairwise comparisons. clearly
this change will mean a readjustment of the rest of the paper.
please also provide a reference for the analysis of the its presented in appendix 3.

<|EndOfText|>

stats review bmj51219
this article presents an analysis based on electronic health records from the veterans health
administration. the focus is to examine the risk of overdose or suicide-related mortality
(composite) associated with opioid cessation and in particular the impact that the vha opioid
safety initiatives (osi) have had on this risk. to achieve this, they obtained data from two
cohorts (fy2010 and fy2013) which provide them information before and after osi was
implemented. the topic is very important at the data relevant and unique. however there
are significant issues regarding the focus of the paper, the methods used and the reporting
of the methods used. these are stated below:
• focus: the aims and conclusions do not match up. the general aim was a comparison of
the new safety initiatives (osi) established in 2013 to determine if these had any impact
reducing/increasing risk of overdose or suicide-related mortality. based on the currently
reported estimates, the guidance appears to have increased the risk. this has not been
highlighted in the discussion which instead focuses on the risk after cessation and after
initiation (more about these below). having said the above, there is no formal comparison
of the two risks (these are presented individually for each cohort), which seems to me not to

answer the initially proposed question. this formal comparison should be carried out,
possibly as part of a full model.
• the way the cohorts were created is particularly difficult to follow. we need more clarity
regarding:
o the type of opioid prescription should have a substantial impact on risk. stratified
analysis and comparison (across cohorts) would be required to address this issue. the use
of opioids appear to vary by cohorts and presenting separate estimate prevents adequate
direct comparison.
o the average length of an opioid prescription. the authors have partially included this as
part of their prescription episode definition but it is unclear if this definition is adequate given
that there is no information on the number of days an average prescription would cover.
also, it is not reported if this is consistent in both cohorts.
o the start of follow-up. the duration of prescription episode is likely to be an important
covariate and this has not been included in the analysis. this needs to be reported as part of
the patient characteristics. if possible using a figure for the distribution of this variable
(could be as part of a supplementary material).
o the index date which appears to vary depending on the type of analysis. a clear
definition is required, ideally supported by a diagram/figure.
o the possibility that individuals might appear in both cohorts. this needs to be discussed
and quantified. a sensitivity analysis excluding these people should be carried out.
o is it possible that individuals within the same cohort go from ‘users’ to ‘cessation’ to
‘users’ again? if so, how was this treated?
o with regards to ‘cessation’, is it possible to identify if the osi was used in these cases. if
not, then it is unclear how the current analysis is actually evaluating these initiatives. should
be at least an important limitation.
• the use of cox models with time-varying covariates appears to me adequate to deal with
the issue of immortal time bias, but this needs to be reported more clearly. please provide
further information about which covariates were used and how the time-dependent covariate
was created and incorporated, to address issues such as avoiding immortal time bias. in
particular, what information was used for the ‘continuation group’ for this time-dependent
covariate (if any). please also provide evidence that relevant assumptions for these models
are adequate.
• related to the above, i believe that the approach taken for the life tables is not correct for
the ‘continuation group’. these are treated (and labelled) as ‘initiation’, while in reality the
exposure has been experienced much before the date used as index. if it is a repeat
prescription, the risk is not due to the treatment. the time of exposure should be taken
from the moment the prescription episode started (possibly up to 5 years back). to be
consistent with this analysis, this initiation risks should also include those in the cessation
group (at the time of initiation).
• it is possible that there is an increase risk every time that a change in prescription is
meant to occur and is exacerbated if it doesn’t occur (cessation). in order to evaluate if the
increase in risk is specific to opioids, a similar analysis based on a ‘negative control’ would be
required to check if the risk of suicide/overdose is similar in both years (regardless of
opioids). as stated above, this seems to diverge from the original aim although it is the
main element of the discussion section (vulnerability during important life changes).
• the exclusion of missing data could impact significantly on your findings as the missing
rate is different for each one of the cohorts. imputation methods might be required to
account for this. current approach of ‘complete case analysis’ is likely to provide bias
comparisons.

• the use of a composite outcome is valid only in certain scenarios. please report separately
suicides and overdose episodes to verify similarities in risk magnitude and direction (this
could be included as part of a supplement).
