i want to thank the authors for providing detailed responses to my comments and for
changing their paper. i have a few more suggestions for your consideration.
1. i still think that the term "independent" is misleading, as discussed before. i strongly
suggest to at least remove it from the title of the paper.
2. in your conclusion, i suggest that you state that nafld is not associated with your
outcomes in your study (not that it appears).

3. i believe that you did not use multivariate models (i.e., models with multiple outcome
levels or repeated measures) but a multivariable model. also, on page 12, it should read
multivariable-adjusted (not multivariate).
4. it should read cox proportional hazards (i.e., plural) models.
5. please make sure that the people you list in the acknowledgment know that you list
them (i just had an issue about that).
6. can you please confirm that no ethical vote was needed for this study? i instead believe
that the collection of data took place within another irb approval. if yes, these should be
noted.
7. data should be plural (figure legends.... ). please also check footnotes of the tables.
8. when you refer to prevalence, you should give a time frame (i.e., life-time, one-year)

<|EndOfText|>


i have been asked to review the methods/statistics of this large, prospective
population-based study. the main outcome is all-cause mortality, and the exposure is a
food classification system based on the extent and purpose of industrial food processing
(nov a).
outcome: why did the authors chose all-cause mortality as their main outcome and did not
focus on cause-specific deaths that may be more biologically related to processed food
intake?
i cannot follow the reasoning to use inverse probability weighting to adjust for age and sex
to present the proportions of baseline covariates. for what reason was this used? i would
be more interested in the unadjusted distribution of baseline covariates.
i may have missed it, but what was the strategy to define confounding for this study?
the authors assigned the "not having"certain characteristics to address missing
information. could the authors run multiple imputations to assure readers that this choice
of handling missing does not affect the results of the study?
the authors used a test for linear trend across the nov a categories. i am not clear,
however, when this was decided and why a linear trend was expected.
the authors run a total of 17 subgroup analyses, which i think is by far too many in a
non-hypothesis generation study. the authors should provide a rationale for each subgroup
analyses on only run those that are meaningful. with this number of hypothesis-generating
analyses, i am also questioning the chosen fix alpha of 0.05. further, which models were
compared using the likelihood ratio test? i assume nested models with and without proper
interaction dummies.
a striking finding is the separation of effects only after about 10 years of follow up. how do
the authors explain this finding? is this related to the design or analyses of the study? is
there a biological cause? the graph also suggests that the effect is more a step function for
q3 and q4 in contrast to the lower two quartiles.
to address the critical question of whether the effects are observed because of the
processing of the food and not by the individual ingredients of processed food, could the
authors run appropriate mediation analyses?
please report p values only to the 2nd decimal for p values exceeding 0.1.
i do not think that a representative sample is necessary to address the research question.
however, the prevalences and incidences may not reflect the ones in spain. this distinction
may help readers to understand the issue of "representative" study sample better.
i also do not think that the number of observed death is small. maybe small in some
subgroup analyses but 335 deaths overall are undoubtedly sufficient to allow for a robust
analysis of this research question.
i suggest omitting the statement that this is the "first study... " as this is not an important
marker of quality and may lead to unnecessary discussions with other groups that may
have targeted this or a related question.

<|EndOfText|>

i think the authors for their detailed responses to mine and the other reviewers
comments as well as providing several additional analysis to_the robustness of
the data and to address the concerns of the reviewers. in particular, appreciate
discussions about the methodological approach and its association with causal
inference. my comments to the prior version may have been too strict as the
authors clearly followed a causal inference methodology and this has now been
made clear in the revised manuscript. however, i think that addition rewording is
not necessary as the authors greatly discuss the limitations of their approach.
thank you for testing the assumptions of the instrument and for specifying that it
has not been used in the propensity score model. i agree with the careful
interpretation of this analysis.
i would recommend adding to the "what this study adds"section that the found
increased risk where partly of small magnitude.
it may be worth adding a section of the clinical implications as well as a
suggestion of further targeted research to understand the found effects.
i would suggest to not bold results in table 2, 3, 5 and 6 for which the 95% ci
does not cross the null value.
i believe that a statement of patient involvement and plan for distributing the
results is missing.
the authors may consider rewording the title of this study, as i'm not sure what
is meant by the burden of death. i would also recommend being consistent when
stating the title, the objectives, and the main outcome measures.