BMJ 51219.R1
Association Between Prescription Opioid Cessation, Duration on Opioids, and Overdose or
Suicide Mortality among US Veterans: An Observational Evaluation
Stats Report:
The authors have adjusted their manuscript accordingly and most of the comments made by
the reviewers have been answered adequately. There are a few of minor points that are
nevertheless important in relation to the correct reporting of this research.

The first one is about the models used in their analysis. The authors mention the use of
survival models but do not clarify what these are based on. Most likely, given the reported
use of SAS PHREG, is that these are Cox Proportional Hazard models with time varying
covariates to take into account the interaction observed between duration of opioid
treatment and cessation with the outcome (overdose/suicide). In any case, the authors do
need to be more explicit about the models used and, as requested initially, how they dealt
with checking for the assumptions their model uses (like any model). These will only require
a couple of sentences in the Methods and if necessary adding some supplementary material
as appendix.
The second point is regarding their life table graphs. Given the way the data are collected, it
is not surprising that the majority of the events used in these estimates are concentrated in
the first year. The impact of this is that the estimates towards the end of the second year
are highly volatile, particularly for Figure 1.b. I would suggest that to prevent people from
focusing on these volatile estimates, the authors should present the data only for the first
year of follow-up (or first 18 months) in the main manuscript. The current Figures could be
presented as supplementary material instead. Providing a table with the absolute numbers,
actual estimates, and the precision around these estimates would also be particularly useful
(supplement).
Regarding this last point, the values reported for the Models (e.g. Table 2) with the HR and
95%CI provide a good measure of the precision around these estimates. Unfortunately as
there are no HR reported for the interactions (correctly, to minimise confusion), there is not
information regarding the precision around these estimates for the interaction. Please
provide a similar Table as supplementary material with the Parameter Estimates AND the
Standard Errors for these estimates for the models reported in Table 2 and Appendix 3.
Finally, after reading the manuscript I could not find what they have used as index date for
their survival analyses. I assume it was 1 October, 2012 as that was the start date for the
cohort. In any case, please make it explicit somewhere.
