This is a large well conducted RCT, which covers an important clinical subject area. It is
funded by the NIHR HTA
The study is “open label” due to the nature of the treatment, which is compensated for by
blinded assessors.
Randomisation was performed by an experienced CTU. All aspects comply with consort, but
I have a number of queries outlined below which I believe can be easily addressed by the
experienced team.
Major
1)It is really important to emphasise that participants received LMWH alone or with GCS
only during the period of hospital admission.This study does not apply to patients at high
risk of post-operative DVT who would be considered for on going DVT prophylaxis post
discharge. While I appreciate that the authors have stated this in the discussion I think it
requires to be emphasised in the first paragraph of the discussion and also the word “in
hospital” or similar should be added to the sections entitled “What is already know” and
“What this study adds”.
2) There is a large amount of data included, which the authors should be commended for.
However, the analysis is intention to treat and per protocol and non pre-defined secondary
outcomes should be removed to the appendix. Currently there are large number of
p-values and results in the main text and tables/figures which are 1)not clearly defined
primary and secondary outcomes and ii) without correction for multiple tests.
Other queries
1)Outcome is new VTE at 90 days, yet duplex scan was performed 14-21 days after
surgery

Q. Please justify the timing of this scan compared to the primary outcome
The majority of DVTs were asymptomatic, so could the early timing of this scan have led
to an under reporting of the primary outcome
2)This was a pragmatic study and both formulation of LMWH and length of stocking (full
length versus below knee) were dependent on local practice
a)Compliance – was this different between full and to below knee stockings
b) Site –selection was compliance assessed prior to the trial staring or is this more likely to
be due to participant factors
3)Power calculation: this allowed for a 6% event rate, whereas the actual event rate was
much lower. A discussion on whether the study was adequately powered should be
included
4) Consort- 1905 were randomised out of 11,679
Could the authors please provide information as to why so many patients were ineligible
and thus reassure the reader that the findings are generalisable.
5) Table 1 ; Baseline demographics
- please mention in text that type of surgery is included in s5
6)Table 2 – duplication in VTE type, should have only have data relevant to primary
outcome and pre-agreed analysis plan
With or without duplex should not be differentiated, without duplex can be assigned to
appendix
7) Figure 2 – intention to treat analysis, the per protocol should be consigned to an
appendix
8) Table 4 – Please clarify and justify why a GCS only and neither group has been included
in the table. Results should be reported in accordance with the predefined primary and
secondary outcomes and statistical analysis plan. These results can be considered in the
appendix
