This is a retrospective observational study describing clinical findings in patients
infected with the 2019-nCoV in the Zhejiang province, which reports the greater toll
in China after the Hubei province. Available data in the literature on clinical course of
patients infected by the 2019-nCoV are still scarce, and gathering clinical findings is
of high interest.
In general, the manuscript would benefit from thorough language editing.
The study has been approved by local ethics committee, and the authors clearly
specify that informed consent has been waived because of the urgent need to collect
data on a new pathogen.
Some shortcomings needs to be addressed.
Major concerns:

Zhejiang is the province where most of the cases are reported after Hubei, where 829
confirmed patients were reported as of Feb 3, 2020. The authors present here
important clinical data. However, only 33 of the patients they describe have a
follow-up of more than 10 days after onset of disease, and the length of the disease
is not specified. As the author stated, Huang et al. reported in the Lancet that the
novel 2019 pneumonia is a long disease, and that complications (and ICU
admissions) appear in median 10 days after onset of symptoms. Most of the patients
described here are still hospitalized at the time of the writing, and their final outcome
is still unknown. The authors state that in their cohort, patients present with milder
disease than what has been described from Wuhan, based on the fact that only one
on 33 patient with symptoms lasting more than 10 days presented with dyspnea.
However, all but one of the described patients presented with imaging confirmed
pneumonia, and no data is available on pulse oximetry or on the need for
supplemental oxygen. It would be of great interest to have data presenting the whole
course of disease and the outcome of the patients, in order to be able to conclude
that the disease is less severe that what has been observed in Wuhan.
The authors should specify which clinical material was used to confirm the diagnosis,
and what were the results of the RT-PCR tests in the different specimen tested, if
available.
The authors report temperature and respiratory rate of the patients. Are there any
data on pulse oximetry or blood pressure available? This is important since the
authors state that patients with a saturation below 93% in ambient air have been
treated with investigational therapeutics, and since this is a marker of the severity of
a lung disease.
Among administered treatment, could the authors specify how many patients
benefited from supplementary oxygen therapy?
Minor concerns:
The authors state in the design of the study that data come from multiple centers.
Could the authors specify (line 111) how many “designated hospitals” participated to
the study, and which type of center it involves (tertiary, secondary, primary).
Introduction:
- Line 73: the fact that snakes are intermediate hosts of this novel coronavirus is
highly criticized in the scientific community. There is no current proof that
coronaviruses can infect species other than mammal and Aves, and I would suggest
to remove the word “snake” to avoid any further misunderstanding.
- Lines 73 to 76: The statement that 2019-nCoV is “very similar” to SARS-CoV and
MERS-CoV should be revised: all of those viruses are within the same genus of the
subfamily Orthocoronavirinae in the family Coronaviridae. 2019-nCoV is like
SARS-CoV, a member of the subgenus Sarbecovirus (Beta-CoV lineage B), with which
it shares more than 79% of its sequence, but is more distant to MERS-CoV, which
belongs to the Merbecovirus subgenus (only 50% homology with nCoV). A reference
on SARS should be added. Total cases of MERS and SARS shouldn’t be added, since
they display different case fatality rates.
Methods:
- Could the authors share their standardized case-report form as supplementary
material?
- Line 125: ”… real-time RT-PCR…” please correct.
- Line 128 “and so on”: please specify which test has been performed.
- Line 129: “lopina veltonavir” please use the international nonproprietary name
- Lines 132-133: please specify the dose and the molecule used for each treatment
- Please specify which antibiotic has been administered
- Line 135-136: only confirmed patients can clear the virus. The sentence should be
rephrased for more clarity.
- Not being an epidemiologist, I won’t extend on the statistical analysis.
Results:

- Characteristics of the patients: could the authors specify the age of the two younger
patients? Are there any children below 5 years-old?
- Line 155-156: the method of calculation of the incubation period should be
described in the methods section
- When presenting the data in the table, clinical data such as temperature and
respiratory rate should be displayed next to each other for more clarity, then followed
by symptoms.
- Could the authors specify if patients presented with upper respiratory symptoms?
- Could the authors specify the normal laboratory values range in table 2?
- lines 185-186: “the D-dimer level were higher”: this sentence should be rephrased
for more clarity.
Discussion:
- Could the authors specify what they mean by “air prevention”?
- The authors should discuss the fact that antiviral therapy, gamma globulins and
steroids were administered within an uncontrolled study, and that no conclusion can
be drawn on their effect.
In a nutshell, gathering clinical data during an outbreak of a new pathogen is of high
importance. The manuscript should benefit from a revision before publication. If data
are available at the time of the revision and if the authors chose to review their
paper, the paper could be updated with new available data on the outcome of the
patients in their cohort.
