Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. It is an important topic given the
excessive workload in academia, non-sustainable peer review system, and interesting
research question. It is a great paper. Main comments is that the included literature could be
improved.
Abstract:
• Change question to objective
• “Out-of-hours submissions or reviews on weekends, early mornings / late nights, or
national holidays.”. I would like to see holidays, and sick-days added. How much do
academics work during sick leave or annual leave. I know I do, Maybe discussion item.
• “The levels of out-of-hours work were high, with average probabilities of over 1-in-7 for
work on the weekends and over 1-in-3 for early mornings and late nights.” Can you
reword/simplify this sentence please?
• I feel the conclusion doesnot match the objective and results: “culture of overwork” is a
literal thing, not just a figure of speech.

General:
• Change ‘review’ to peer-review assessments for clarity as people might think you are
talking about systematic reviews if they just read bits of the paper.
Introduction
• Line 40-52: whilst clearly written, it is written as popular press. A stronger literature
review would benefit the reader, including but not limited to: job satisfaction and
performance measure related to publication output amongst academics. Additionally, as the
study analyses by country, a proper introduction of the state of the international literature or
publishing across countries would be useful.
Methods:
• Patient and public reviews were included for The BMJ but were a very small proportion.”
Can you list the proportion please?
• If you do it by country code:
o how did you determine what national holidays or seasons of reduced work are, as Chinese
new year is clearly more applicable to the Peoples Republic of China and east Asian
economies than say Northern America.
o Please expand on ‘the R library “ggap” (4) and the time zones were added using the R
library “geonames” (5).’ so novel readers can understand what you transformed.
o “Some addresses were incomplete and could not be geocoded; these data were excluded
(see online supplement).” Can you specify proportion in main text, and which countries were
excluded
o “Our primary aim was to examine changes over time and we anticipated that there would
be an increase over time in out-of-hours work because of the growing pressure on
researchers. We also expected differences between countries.” – this should go under aims/
introduction
o ‘The regression models used a Bayesian paradigm because this gives 95% credible
intervalswhich are easier to interpret than 95% confidence intervals (8).’ Please add why
this is easier? Most readers are not aware of Bayesian so please explain for novices.
Discussion
o “However, the trends over time were remarkably consistent, indicating stable working
patterns since 2012.” The pressure was likely to already be there since 2012.
o “The constant ability to work may be contributing to burn-out.” Please back this up with
literature.
o ‘Differences between countries’. I think you need to take into consideration the number of
papers published by academics in these countries.
o “There are clear incentives for researchers to “publish or perish” in China, as hiring and
promotion is based on the quantity of papers in journals.” I don't think this is any different in
any other country? We are trying to create different measures as the author would be aware
and maybe these can be discussed but it still counts.
o “We are not convinced that such a solution would be effective, but we suggest it because if
peer review is something that becomes measured and acknowledged, this task is likely to
become yet another metric for academics to try to achieve.” I believe it is already an official
expected measure in Australia.
o The authors could improve the discussion by making it clearer if there are any cross
country comparisons on these measures.
o The whole discussion would be benefit from improving the literature around their topic
around international differences.
o Is there any research on people paying others to do their work for them?
o “Submitting a paper or review is the final step in an often long process, and even when
submitting out-of-hours, the bulk of the thinking and writing may have been done during
working hours.” I don't see this as a limitation
• The what this study adds section could be more impactful and reflect the findings. Eg The
“weekend” is a misnomer for many researchers’ sounds like emotive language to me. You

did not measure what researchers classify as their weekend or what a weekend means to
them.
I cannot comment on the appropriateness of the Bayesian methods used.
