This is an important article as it is the first one to explore the association between
ultra-processed food consumption and cardiovascular disease, previous studies
having focused on the association between ultra-processed food consumption and
risk factors for cardiovascular disease such as dyslipidaemia (Rauber et al. 2015),
hypertension (Mendonca et al. 2017), metabolic syndrome (Tavares et al. 2012;
Lavigne-Robichaud et al. 2018), and overweight/obesity (Louzada et al. 2015;
Mendonca et al. 2016; Juul et al. 2018) [among other health outcomes such as
cancer (Fiolet et al. 2018)]. In addition, by using a prospective cohort design this
study will better control reverse causality than previously carried out cross-sectional
studies.
This study adds knowledge to a pool of evidence from different countries showing
that ultra-processed food consumption can be harmful for health (see previously
mentioned references) and decrease diet quality (Monteiro et al. 2011; Moubarac et
al. 2013; Poti et al. 2015; Louzada et al. 2015a; Louzada et al. 2015b; Moubarac et
al. 2016; Luiten et al. 2016; Martinez Steele et al. 2016; Martínez Steele et al.
2017a; Martínez Steele et al. 2017b; Cediel et al. 2018; Julia et al. 2018; Louzada
et al. 2018; Martínez Steele et al. 2018).
The results from this study are important for the general population (we are all
exposed and potential consumers of ultra-processed foods and at potential risk of
CVD), for patients who already have CVD and policy makers who based on these
results, may work on policies to diminish or control exposure to ultra-processed
foods.
The research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered. The overall
design of the study (prospective, cohort study) is appropriate to answer the research
question (estimate the association between ultra-processed food consumption and
incidence of CVD).
Inclusion (participants aged over 18 years with access to the Internet) and exclusion
criteria (less than 2 24h-dietary records during the first two years, with CVD at
baseline, energy under-reporters) are clearly described (also in Appendix 2Flowchart).
The study is based on a convenience sample in which women (i.e. 80 women vs
20% men) and probably health-conscious individuals are well more represented,
which could lead to selection bias and lack of generalizability. Still these limitations
are somewhat compensated by a very big sample size (more than 100,000) and by
adjusting for sex, education and other health behaviors.
The Methods are clearly described. Cases were defined as first incidence of overall
CVD, cerebrovascular diseases (stroke and transitory ischemic attack) and coronary
heart diseases (myocardial infarction, angioplasty and acute coronary syndromes).
Cases were defined according to International Chronic Diseases classification, based
on self-report and information obtained through linkage with medical and mortality
databases.

The main exposure (gram contribution of ultra-processed foods per day, used as
continuous or categorized according to sex-specific quartiles) and covariates (age,
sex, BMI, physical activity, smoking status, number of 24-hour dietary records,
alcohol, energy intake, family history of CVD and education; saturated fatty acids,
sodium and sugar intakes; Healthy dietary pattern; baseline prevalent type II
diabetes, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, and hypertriglyceridemia and treatment for
these conditions) were clearly defined. Less than 5% data on covariates were
missing and imputed. The proportion of IPAQ missing values was 14% and a
category for missing values was created.
The study was ethical and approved by IRB.
The results are complete, well and clearly presented and answer the research
question.
Discussion and conclusions focus on the data and the message is clear. Key findings
and limitations (including selection bias and generalizability, residual confounding
and causality, statistical power to detect some associations, length of follow-up and
NOVA misclassification) are discussed. The findings are discussed in the light of
previous evidence as well.
References are up to date and relevant. Some suggestions have been included
below.
Both abstract and strobe accurately reflect what is stated in the paper.
Below I include some minor suggestions.
Page 5, line 16: May I suggest including an additional reference for
“Worlwide, during the past decades, the consumption of ultra-processed foods has
drastically increased (7-11)”:
Reference 33 (Juul F, Hemmingsson E. Trends in consumption of ultra-processed
foods and obesity in Sweden between 1960 and 2010. Public Health Nutr. 2015
Dec;18(1475–2727 (Electronic)):3096–107).
Page 5, line 18: I suggest including the following additional reference
(56.8% of total calories come from ultra-processed foods in the UK) for
“ultra-processed foods represent between 25% and 60% of total daily energy intake
(12–22)”:
Rauber F, Louzada MLC, Steele EM, Millett C, Monteiro CA, Levy RB. Ultra-processed
food consumption and chronic non-communicable diseases-related dietary nutrient
profile in the UK (2008-2014). Nutrients 2018; 10: 587.
Page 6, line 8: For clarity, may I suggest changing “participants aged over
18 years” for “participants aged 18 years or above”.
Page 6, line 28: When you mention “To be included in the nutrition
component of the NutriNet-Santé cohort, only two dietary records were mandatory”,
do you refer to two dietary records overall or per series of 3 dietary records? Even
though this becomes clearer further onwards in the text (two during the overall
baseline period), I suggest clarifying this here.
Page 6, line 31: Where there up to 12 records per participant? If so, I
suggest this is specified in the text as follows: “intakes from all the 24h-dietary
records available during the first two years of each participant’s follow-up (up to 12
records) were averaged”.
Page 6, line 38: Please explain what “20%” refers to in the following
statement “metabolic rate and Goldberg cut-off, and under-energy reporters (20%)
were excluded (53).”.
Page 7, line 17: I think the following information now included in Appendix
1, is sufficiently important to be included in the manuscript “All food and beverage
items of the NutriNet-Santé composition table were categorized by a team of three
trained dieticians into one of the four food groups in NOVA, a food classification
system based on the extent and purpose of industrial food processing (1–3). The
whole classification was then reviewed by a committee composed of the three
dietitians and five researchers, specialists in nutritional epidemiology. In case of
uncertainty for a given food/beverage item, a consensus was reached among

researchers based on the percentage of home-made and artisanal foods versus
industrial brands reported by the participants.”
Page 7, line 54: Why were sex-specific quartiles of the proportion of
ultra-processed food rather than age-specific quartiles (or just total quartiles) used?
I suggest explaining this in the manuscript.
Page 8, line 2: In the following statement “and incidence of overall CVD,
cerebrovascular diseases (stroke and TIA) and coronary heart diseases (MI and
angioplasty)” shouldn´t “acute coronary syndromes” be mentioned as “coronary
heart diseases”?
Page 9, line 1: I would suggest “less highly educated” (or “with less higher
education”) instead of “less educated” because according to Table 1, both the
proportion of less educated and more highly educated seem to decrease with
quartiles of ultra-processed food consumption.
Page 9, line 3: In accordance with Table 1, I suggest adding “along with less
fruit and vegetable consumption and less dietary fiber intake” to the statement
“Furthermore, they had higher body mass index, intakes of energy, lipids,
carbohydrates and sodium, along with lower alcohol intake and prevalence of
metabolic diseases”.
Page 9, line 17: In regards to statement “During follow-up (518208
person-years, median follow-up time=5.2y), 1409 first incident CVD events
occurred, among which 106 MI, 485 angioplasties, 73 ACS, 155 strokes and 674
TIA.”, shouldn´t these three numbers “106 MI, 485 angioplasties, 73 ACS” add up to
665 (and not 664), in accordance with Table 2?
Page 9, line 47: Why weren´t the results of models after restriction of the
population study to the participants with at least six 24h dietary records during the
first two years of follow-up described in Results (and/or Appendix Table 8)?
Page 10, line 22: An important word is missing in the following phrase “In
addition, several food groups that are mainly ultra-processed and are largely XXX
have been associated with increased risks of cardiometabolic outcomes with a high
concordance, i.e. sugar-sweetened beverages and processed meats (2).”
Page 11, line 29: I think the following limitation could be further discussed:
“Second, some misclassification in the NOVA ‘ultra-processed food’ category cannot
be ruled out”. Would misclassification lead to an under- or an overestimation of
ultra-processed food consumption? How will this misclassification affect the studied
association?
Page 11, line 37: I am not sure whether I understood the link between the
following two statements: “Fourth, the length of follow-up was relatively limited in
time, since the cohort was launched in 2009” and “Still, a classic assumption in
nutritional epidemiology is that the measured exposure at baseline (especially since
we averaged a two-year period of exposure) actually reflects more generally the
usual eating habits of the individual not only at the moment of the study but also
several years prior to their inclusion in the cohort”.
Page 11, line 43: Regarding statement “Last, as it is usually the case in
volunteer-based cohorts, participants to the NutriNet-Santé cohort were more often
women, with health-conscious behaviors and higher socio-professional and
educational levels as compared to the general French population (66). This might
limit the generalizability of the findings and probably lead to a likely underestimation
of the strength of the associations, even though an overestimation cannot be
excluded”, how would selection bias lead to an underestimation of the strength of
the association between ultra-processed food consumption and incidence of CVD? Is
it because high ultra-processed food consumers are underrepresented? Or because
losses to follow-up vary according to ultra-processed food consumption, being higher
among the higher quartiles?
Page 11, line 52: To make sense of this phrase “According to the national
INCA3 study conducted by the French Food safety Agency in 2016 (7), only about
1/3 of transformed foods (e.g. ice cream, biscuits, sweet pastries, dairy desserts)
was homemade”, and link it with the previous phrase “To date, no nationally

representative data is available regarding the proportion of ultra-processed food in
the diet in the French population, thus comparison with our population study is not
straightforward” I think you would need to provide a definition (and not just
examples) of “transformed foods” according to the French Food Safety Agency.
Page 20, line 50: Should you not replace in Table 1 footnote c “by x² test”
for “by ANOVA or χ2 tests”?