Dear Editors/Authors,
Thank you once again for the opportunity to review the paper. The authors did address
many of the issues I raised in the previous review. However, there are some additional
issues as outlined below:
Statistical analysis section (page# 8):

As it says, "adjusted for stratification or minimisation variables used in the random
allocation...", it does mask the fact that not all the balancing variables were adjusted for in
the analysis, as is also clear from the Author's response when they said, "**The allocation
was minimised by practice list size to ensure roughly equal numbers of patients in the two
study groups, rather than because of any hypothesis or belief that the size of the practice
was a strong confounder. Hence, we have not adjusted analyses by practice size." This
does not address the statistical concern why I raised this issue for.
The balancing variables are recommended to be adjusted for because they introduce
correlation between the intervention groups (which consequently violates the statistical
assumption of independence resulting in biased variance estimation of the effect measure.
(More details of statistical issues will be available at: [1] Kahan BC, Morris TP. Improper
analysis of trials randomised using stratified blocks or minimisation. Stat Med.
2012;31:328-40, [2] Kahan BC, Morris TP. Reporting and analysis of trials using stratified
randomisation in leading medical journals: review and reanalysis. BMJ. 2012;345:e5840)
Therefore, I recommend adjusting for ALL the balancing variables, which will also make the
statement "adjusted for stratification or minimisation variables used in the random
allocation..." correct.

Statistical Models:
The authors attempted to resolve some inconsistencies raised in the earlier revision, but
some inconsistencies regarding the statistical modelling still exist. For example, Table 3
has been updated by replacing the negative binomial regression with random-effects
Poisson regression. But there are some additional inconsistencies to be resolved:
(i) Random-effect Poisson model was not mentioned in the Protocol paper (Roberts et al.
Trials. 2016;17:366); thus, this is a deviation from the protocol. This needs to be clearly
mentioned, and properly justified, somewhere in the manuscript;
-- To this, even though there is mathematical proximity and relationship between the two
models, there are differences between the assumptions for negative binomial and Poisson
models. Therefore, instead of simply replacing one model with the other, would it be more
informative to talk briefly about the suitability of the model used, along with comments on
model specification and assumptions?
(ii) In the "Intervention effects and linkage to care" section (page# 52), it still says the
model used was a negative binomial model; BUT
(iii) In Table S4 (page# 52-53) under the Distribution column, it says "Log-linear
regression".
NOTE: Log-linear regression is not a distribution, but a regression model. The distribution
would be Log-linear?
--- Minor typo: Also, there is a typo in Table S4, it says "Log linter..." instead of
Log-linear).
NOTE2: Again, Log-linear model was not mentioned in the protocol, and so this deviation,
if at all, from the protocol must be clearly acknowledged and justified in the manuscript as
well.
I hope the authors find these feedback useful.
Sincerely,
Nazrul Islam, MBBS, MSc, MPH, PhD
MRC Epidemiology Unit, University of Cambridge