This is a well written manuscript presenting the results of a well designed RCT on the
efficacy of antibiotic treatment in patients with chronic low back pain (LBP) and Modic
changes. The RCT was prospectively registered and a sample size calculation was performed
with a between-group difference used also in the results interpretation. The risk of bias of
this RCT may be low as there was no selection bias, blinding of patients, health professionals
and assessors, no attrition bias, and no selective reporting. My main comments regard (the
lack of): a) monitoring compliance to treatment and co-interventions, b) the chosen cut-off
to determine a between-group clinically important difference. I also have other comments
for the editors and authors to take into account.
1) Introduction, second paragraph. I miss (part of) the rationale on why running a new RCT
on the efficacy of antibiotic treatment in patients with chronic LBP and Modic Changes. This
may seem obvious to the authors but not to the readers. Why were the conclusions of the
previously RCT "questioned"? How was its methodological quality/risk of bias? Is the AIM
study trying to replicate the previously published trial?
2) Introduction, last paragraph. The previous published RCT included only patients with type
I Modic Changes. Why is the AIM study including both type I and type II? I believe this
should be included in the introduction/rationale for running this new RCT.

3) Methods. I could not find any information on whether compliance in each RCT arm was
evaluated and if there were any between-group differences. If no compliance was monitored,
this should be added as a limitation of this study.
4) Methods. "Included patients were recommended not to start additional treatments for
back pain but were allowed to continue ongoing therapy. They were encouraged not to use
NSAIDs during the intervention period." Were co-interventions monitored during the trial?
Since I could not find information in the results section, I would encourage the authors to
report some information if co-interventions were monitored. If co-interventions were not
monitored, this should probably be added as a limitation of this study.
5) Methods and results. "To confirm MCs seen on a clinical MRI available at screening,
baseline MRI was performed at median 22 days before treatment (...)". I wonder whether a
disk herniation (inclusion criterion) was confirmed for all the patients included in the trial as
this information is not reported in the results.
6) Statistical analysis. The authors adopted multiple imputation to accound for missing data
on the primary outcome and perform intention-to-treat analysis. However, to my knowledge,
intention-to-treat analysis does not have to do with missing data, as patients who have
missing data do not necessarily change the trial arm that they are randomized to (ITT
principle). Therefore, I was wondering if this approach is correct and a statistical advisor
may be better suited than me to evaluate this aspect.
7) Statistical analysis. The authors performed linear-mixed models which have the
assumption that regression residuals should be normally distributed. This is not always the
case when using ordinal outcomes such as pain intensity in patients with LBP, therefore I
would encourage the authors to report if this basic assumption of linear regression was met
for all the outcomes.
8) Statistical analysis, minimal important between-group difference. I checked in the
protocol why the authors decided for a "clinically important between-group mean difference
of 4 RMDQ points" and, since this is fundamental information for the interpretability of this
RCT, I would report it in this manuscript as well. As claimed by the authors, there is indeed
no evidence supporting the chosen 4-point between-group difference, although it is larger
than the primary outcome measurement error which is useful information. Considering this
RCT RMDQ baseline mean values, 4 points correspond to about a 30% extra-improvement in
the antiobiotics group as compared to the placebo group. The only data we have on
medications in patients with chronic LBP suggest that patients expect a 30%
extra-improvement if taking NSAIDs as compared to no intervention (Ferreira 2013 J Clin
Epidemiol). This data is very much in line with the chosen cut-off, but the medication is
different (antibiotics vs NSAIDs) and the control group is different (placebo vs no
intervention). It would be important to further discuss the chosen 4-point clinically important
between-group difference in the discussion.
9) Exploratory subgroup analysis Modic Changes type I vs type II. The results show a
(small?) effect for type I Modic Changes but not for type II. These results are more in line
with the already published RCT, although the magnitude of effect is substantially different
between the two RCTs. How could the differences in the two RCTs results be explained?
10) Adverse events. The number of patients experiencing an adverse event in the placebo
group (34%) is rather high for a placebo intervention. This could also be mentioned and
explained in the discussion.
11) Bang blinding index. The between-group difference on this index is remarkable and, in
my opinion, may be the major threat to the validity of this RCT. Especially if this potential
bias of performance is added to the potential bias of performance related to the lack of
monitoring of treatment compliance and co-interventions (see my points 3 and 4). The
authors acknowledge this as a limitation but I would argue that this may be the major
limitation of this RCT, which may the major threat to the reliability of this RCT effect
estimates.
11) Discussion, second limitation. Should "overpowered" be "underpowered"?
