Review by Prof. John Pucher, Rutgers University, NJ, USA:
The authors deal with the extraordinarily important topic of cycling safety. As they correctly
note, concerns about cycling safety, both perceived and real, are a major deterrent to raising
cycling levels and, in particular, including a broader cross-section of the population,
especially those who are vulnerable (such as children and seniors) or risk-averse.
Importantly, the authors cite the extensive scientific literature showing that the manifold
health benefits of cycling (physical, mental, social) far offset estimates of the traffic injury
risks of cycling. Thus, promoting more cycling among more of the population is
unquestionably a key strategy to raise physical activity levels and promote public health.
The authors also correctly state that all existing studies show the important of providing
good, safe, convenient cycling infrastructure, both to raise cycling levels and to improve
cycling safety. They cite many studies to back up this statement, which I completely agree
with. Throughout the world, cities are increasingly providing physically separate cycling
facilities (cycle tracks) protected from motor vehicle traffic, which is the main source of
serious cyclist injury.
Unfortunately, I find the actual analysis undertaken by the authors of this paper is both
confusing and potentially misleading for the general reader. Although the authors do not
intend it, their iterations of various analyses of the datasets they have available give the
false impression that cycling to work is, in fact, dangerous. It can obviously be and should
be made safer, without question, but this statistical analysis cannot show that cycling to
work is dangerous. All transport modes can be made safer, but that does not mean that
they are dangerous. Indeed, the authors themselves emphasize several times that the
health benefits of cycling far offset whatever the potential risk of cycling injuries.
I will not comment on the details of the multivariate statistical analysis used by the authors,
as I am not an expert in that field. But I have serious problems with various aspects of the
analysis, which I list here below:
a) The authors find a strong correlation between the number of cycling-related
hospitalizations and cycling as the mode for commuting to work. This is totally obvious, and
proves nothing at all. People who drive more are more likely to be involved in car crashes,

people who walk more are more likely to suffer pedestrian injuries, and cyclists are more
likely to incur cycling injuries, just as cyclists who cycle farther will be more likely to have a
cycling injury simply due to increased exposure. I see no proper controls for exposure levels
specific to cycling. Injury rates per hour, per mile, and per trip must be calculated to even
approximate actual cycling injury risk. The authors do not have available those three kinds
of exposure data specific to cycling, and thus are unable to calculate such exposure-adjusted
risk rates.
b) Even more concerning, the authors mainly examine the relationship between cycling
commuting rates and ANY injuries (from any cause) resulting in hospitalization, and then
secondarily, the relationship between cycling commuting and ANY kind of road traffic injury
(any mode of transport). This does not make sense to me. Clearly, the cycling
commutation rate must be compared specifically with cycling-related injuries, AND
standardized for exposure levels. Moreover, commuting to work by bicycle only accounts for
about a fifth of all cycle trips. Thus, the authors are comparing rates of commuting to work
by bicycle with incomparable levels of total serious injuries (all causes), or total road traffic
injuries (including motorist and pedestrian injuries), or in one small sub-sample,
cycling-related injuries. EVEN in the latter the case (which comes closest to being
appropriate), the authors are comparing only cycling to work (a fifth of all cycle trips) with
injuries resulting from ALL kinds of cycling (incl. recreational, exercise, sports).
c) The authors need to calculate a cycling injury rate that compares for exposure: hours of
cycling, miles of cycling, and number of cycling trips. Comparing absolute numbers of
cycling commuters (or percentage mode share) with number of cycling injuries tells us only
the obvious. It would far more interesting to compare the relationship between levels of
cycling (however measured) with the risk of serious cycling injury (however measured and
calculated relative to exposure), which would help test the controversial claim of "safety in
numbers."
d) It's not clear what point the authors are trying to make. On the one hand, they
emphasize several times that their previous studies as well as almost all other published
studies, find that the health benefits of cycling far offset any traffic injury risks. I completely
agree with that assessment, but this study does not seem to add anything to the existing
literature on that topic.
e) The alternating use of three different key injury measures (total hospitalisations, total
road injuries, and total cycling-related injuries) is extremely confusing for the reader and
makes it hard to draw any firm conclusion from the paper. The authors rely mainly on their
dataset reporting serious injuries of ANY sort requiring hospitalization. It is beyond me why
that would be FUNCTIONALLY related to cycling levels and cycling injuries specifically, even if
there is a statistical association shown in some of their models. Sometimes, the authors use
"road injuries" but not specifically "cycling injuries," but that again is not justified. Cycling
injuries make up a very small percentage of all injuries from road traffic because cycling only
accounts for about 2% of all trips in the UK. And only in a very small subsample can the
authors look specifically at cycling-related injuries. Even that analysis is flawed, I think, but
even more flawed (indeed almost meaningless) is their association of cycling to work with
overall serious injury rates (requiring hospitalisation) for all causes, or in one model, for
about 10 kinds of injuries that might be related to a cycling injury. I do not find that very
convincing.
f) As the authors suggest several times in the paper, much published research has
demonstrated the need for better, separate cycling infrastructure, especially cycling facilities
(cycle tracks) that are physically separated from motor vehicle traffic by concrete curbs,
barriers, bollards, medians, etc. If the authors could help further establish, through their
statistical analysis, the cyclist injury rate reductions enabled by such separate, protected
cycling infrastructure, that would be worth publishing. It would not be new, but it would add
to the body of evidence supporting such facilities. Similarly, if they could show that
increased cycling rates over time, holding other variables constant, lead to reduced cycling
rates, that would also be worth publishing, possibly supporting the overall benefits of the
expansion of cycling infrastructure overall (including regular bike lanes) and perhaps also
shed light on the disputed hypothesis of "safety in numbers."

g) From my reading of the article, the authors are only showing possible correlations, at any
rate, and the main variable they use (injuries requiring overnight hospitalization, regardless
of cause) does not tell the reader much at all.
h) I cannot assess the accuracy and appropriateness of the specific statistical analysis used,
but it doesn't really matter. It is clear from the datasets the authors have available and the
variables they examine, that the analysis cannot yield interesting, novel, and useful results.
In short, I would like to commend the authors for tackling the extremely important topic of
cycling safety. Unfortunately, the specific kinds of data they have to work with do not allow
them, no matter how sophisticated their multivariate statistical analysis, to draw firm
conclusions about the relationship between cycling commuting rates and the risk
(exposure-controlled rate) of cycling injury. Their data do not include data on cycling levels
for all trip purposes (not just the one fifth of cycle trips for the commute to work), the data
do not enable delimiting hospitalisations only to serious injuries from cycle-related
injuries/crashes, and their data do not permit calculation of risk of cycling-related injury per
unit of cycling exposure. Finally, the authors focus only on the cycling trip to work, but they
cannot possibly obtain data on hospitalisations due to cycling to work. At best, they might
compare cycle commute levels to cycling-related injuries, but even that comparisons is
unfair and misleading, as most cycling injuries are not related to work commutation but
rather to other kinds of cycling.
I am very sorry for this negative evaluation of the paper. The problem is that the authors
are working with datasets that simply do not provide the necessary information for the
question of the relationship between cycling levels and cycling safety, as measured relative
to exposure, the only measure of safety that is legitimate.
Again, I thank the authors for raising an important and interesting issue, but I fear that their
statistical analysis would be misleading and misinterpreted as meaning that cycling to work
is dangerous. There can be no question at all that many efforts must be made to improve
cycling safety, including infrastructure but also programs and car-restrictive policies such as
traffic calming. The authors are certainly correct about that. But this paper does not
illuminate the question of what needs to be done.
Prof. John Pucher, Rutgers University, New Jersey, USA