This study looked at the effect of calorie labelling in fast food restaurants across the US. It is
well written and the methods are mostly clearly described. Main limitations of this design
include the absence of control restaurants and the choice of the time period studied which
influenced the results substantially.
Introduction:

There was a Cochrane review on this that the authors could include and discuss in their
background section:
Crockett RA, King SE, Marteau TM, Prevost AT, Bignardi G, Roberts NW, Stubbs B, Hollands
GJ, Jebb SA. Nutritional labelling for healthier food or non-alcoholic drink purchasing and
consumption. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 2018
Methods:
Did the authors conduct any fidelity checks to make sure the correct menus were displayed
and used during the intervention period?
Exclusions:
-What’s the difference between missing data (1st box in figure 1) and no sales (2nd box),
how can such a large sample of restaurants not have any sales during the pre/post period?
-Although the authors explained their exclusions clearly, I wonder why they excluded an
entire data point (e.g. restaurant) which had transactions with >2.500 kcal or <1000 kcal
per transaction? These cut-offs are not properly justified but they don’t seem implausible to
me. Although this results in a small number of restaurants excluded, I would consider
dropping those transactions rather than the entire restaurant from the analysis. The other
exclusion of <1000 purchased items/week sounds also a bit strange but again not many
restaurants are excluded with this one.
Later in the methods the authors did a sensitivity analysis only including restaurants which
have complete data over the 156 weeks, which reduce the sample to half. What does this
mean? Would some stores have missing data for some time points? What’s the reason for
that?
Outcome measurement:
The outcome is calories per transaction. However, if I understand correctly, the authors have
not calculated the total calories of each transaction and took the average kcal across all
transactions within one week. I wonder why they have done it the other way around and
calculated the total number of items purchased within a week, then multiplied by their kcal
content and divided this by the total number of transactions within that week. It seems to
me that transactions in restaurants are “equivalent” to baskets in stores. So if we were
calculating decreases in kcal in baskets we would do all calculations at the basket level, not
at the store level. I hope this makes sense, although the 2 approaches may perhaps result in
similar estimates.
Time period:
The choice of the time period studied (April 2015 to April 2018) is important but hasn’t been
clearly justified. We can see later in the results (sensitivity analysis) that the choice of 1 year
pre-implementation vs 2 years affects the results massively. The explanation in the
discussion seems insufficient. Seasonality is adjusted in the model already as well as special
holidays/occasions and they show exactly the same pattern in 2015 than 2016.
How can this analysis control for the effect of reformulations which may have affected some
products during the study period?
Results:
The authors argue that because the results are expressed as kcal/transaction, and
transactions could be for multiple individuals, hence the reductions could be minimal for each
individual. But can they not look at this issue by controlling (or stratify) by the number of
entrees in each transaction (assuming 1 entrée per person minimum)?
