This rewrite of 49180 is much clearer than the original, but the authors still make it hard
for the reader by their over-technical and unclear presentation. In addition they have by

mistake omitted the genotype analysis of Table 5 from the Results, referring to it only in
the Discussion.
1. The many acronyms are unhelpful, particularly where undefined, as they make the
paper harder to read for non-specialists. Just in the Abstract there are TB (undefined),
HHC, DST (undefined), MDR, INH (undefined), and DS (undefined). Later there are DM
(undefined), TST, PZA (undefined), IPT (undefined) and DRP (undefined). They should all
be defined, even TB, and many (most?) could be avoided entirely, e.g. HHC would be far
simpler and clearer as 'contacts'.
2. The paper is about drug resistance, so it is important to be clear how it is categorised.
Individuals can be drug sensitive or susceptible (which? - both appear in different places)
(DS), or drug resistant (DR) or multi-drug resistant (MDR). But Tables 1 and S1 also have
the categories Pan-susceptible, Mono-resistant, Poly-resistant and Multidrug-resistant. The
latter two obviously involve resistance to more than one drug, and the distinction between
them is apparently important, but it is nowhere explained. The footnote simply says that
poly-resistance is resistant to more than one drug, but not MDR. This begs the question what is MDR?
I encourage the authors to trawl through the paper identifying all the different drug
resistance categories, collect them in one section, harmonise the notation, and explain
what they all are. If this could be done without acronyms, so much the better.
3. These categories relate to the first paragraph of the Results, where 1274 patients with
DSTs were resistant to at least one drug; 538 to only one and 478 to both isoniazid and
rifampicin. But this leaves a further 1274 - 538 - 478 = 258 who are not mentioned at all.
This obviously relates to the categories in Table 1, but because they are not explained it is
impossible to make sense of the numbers. (Incidentally the acronym DTS here should be
DST.)
4. Page 10. "... those exposed to INH mono-resistant TB had a 15% (95% CI: 5%-16%)
higher risk of infection ...". These numbers do not appear in Table 2, the relevant cell being
1.17 (1.09-1.25).
5. The terms univariate and multivariate in Table 2 and elsewhere are used incorrectly.
They describe the number of dependent variables in the analysis, in this case one, i.e.
univariate. The number of independent variables is indicated by univariable/multivariable,
which should be used instead. In addition PR should be expanded to prevalence ratio, and
the abbreviated drug names need giving in full. The footnotes give percentages of missing
data in models 2 and 3, which presumably means that the number column in the table
applies only to the univariable analysis and hence is misleading. Better to give the total
numbers for each analysis in the column header.
6. Table 4 has tiny numbers, and looks underpowered to draw any useful conclusions.
What is the denominator for the number column, and where do the N = 10099 and 10109
come from? They are much larger than any previous numbers.
7. I was surprised to see the Discussion say that "Patients with DR-TB were also more
likely than those with DS-TB to be part of a cluster as defined by genotype", as up to this
point I had not seen the word "genotype". Doing a formal search for it threw up Table 5 on
page 58 of the submission, which is not referred to anywhere else. Yet the Discussion (foot
of page 8) talks about the genotype findings. Clearly Table 5 and its commentary have
been omitted from the Results.
8. Phrases relating to "statistical significance" appear in the Abstract and elsewhere. There
is a global movement against such terminology, and they would be better expressed in
terms of "importance" or similar, based on the confidence interval.

9. "Contacts were defined as secondary cases if diagnosed between days 15 and 455" page 7. Where does the 455 days come from, as they were followed up to 12 months?
10. MIRU is another undefined acronym that could be explained if there was a section
describing the genotype analysis.
11. What are the reference numbers for the ethical approvals?
12. Tables 1 and S1 look unnecessarily large to me. Are all the covariates of interest? In
addition the formatting could be improved by presenting the numbers and percentages in
the format % (n), using whole percentages. I recommend whole percentages throughout
(see https://adc.bmj.com/content/100/7/608), as they are easier to read; the decimal
place is uninformative, and if people are desperate to know it they can calculate it from the
numbers.
Tim Cole
