The authors propose changes to the continuity of care monitoring system to improve RMNCAHN. I
have some comments mainly on the presentation.
1. The title could be improved. The paper addresses a rather different question - how to make better
progress.
2. The Introduction first sentence is not referenced, but I assume it's [1] and also that it is the
"Countdown to 2030" referred to both in the paper and the BMJ's series title. It would be helpful to
flag it as such (as is done with GS). Further down there's a reference to Countdown's 2017 report, but
there is no citation for 2017.
3. The next paragraph refers to all 138 LMICs plus Panama, but I suggest the number of countries and
the detail about Panama be postponed until the middle of page 3. Incidentally the acronym LMIC is
never defined.
4. Key message 2 refers to schedulable interventions without explaining what this means. Key
message 4 talks of the need to revise the CoC chart, but later says it "will be defined through a broad
consultative process". Should this be "should be" rather than "will be" - is it aspirational or more than
that? For the final key message, is the list of advisory groups useful?

5. The first paragraph on page 3 identifies three approaches to monitoring health interventions,
described in the following sections as Steps 1, 2 and 3. But they could be signposted more clearly in
the opening paragraph. Incidentally the words "fairing" and "hone" should be "faring" and "home".
6. Step 1 relates to the continuum of care chart as seen in Figure 1 and Table 1. I suggest including
the phrase "continuum of care" in the figure title to make this clearer, and citing it earlier in the
paragraph. The number of countries (138) should appear here, and the detail about Panama (if it's
needed, which I doubt). Note that the dots mark the median not the average coverage for each
country (last line). The spelling for diarrhea / diarrhoea is inconsistent in the text and figures / tables.
7. Step 2. I'd use the word 'interval' rather than 'bucket' in the first paragraph. Table 2 and Figure 2
need citing. Measles vaccination is referred to, but it appears as MCV1 vaccination in the figures and
tables and MSL on page 5. The text refers to "the flatlining in immunization coverage", yet rotavirus
immunization has almost the largest gap closure.
8. The footnote on page 4 explains the complicated choice of survey dates in the time intervals
2009-2013 and 2014-2018. In the first interval they are near the midpoint of 2011, while in the
second interval they are the most recent. Why not use the earliest surveys in 2009-2013 for
symmetry? Incidentally the complicated formula given there can be simplified to %CGC = 100 * (C2 C1) / (100 - C1) / n.
9. Step 3 line 1. For me "percolate" involves falling not rising (Wikipedia says it involves cycling nearly
boiling water through coffee grounds using gravity). Perhaps "rise" or "bubble up" instead?
10. The last three components of the CCI map are described as averages, but 'mean' or 'weighted
mean' would be simpler and clearer. Incidentally where do the weights for the immunization
component come from? The four components in Figure 3 need to have names that match the
component descriptions. Figure 3 gives the top 5 (not 10) best and worst performers. The worst
performers are mainly from Africa, but Yemen is not.
11. The last paragraph on page 6 is arguably the key paragraph in the paper, pointing out that new
indicators are needed for children age 5-9 and adolescents age 10-19. But the last part of the
paragraph switches to the past tense in describing initiatives that have already happened, and I'm not
clear how it fits in.
12. On page 7 the MoNITOR advisory group is later referred to as MONITOR.
13. Page 8 introduces the acronym CoC - I suggest expanding it to continuum of care, as it's the
dominant theme of the paper. The next sentence expands the acronym RMNCAHN as "RMNCAH and
nutrition" - why not use the acronym as is or else expand it in full?
14. The references need some attention. The UN, WHO and World Bank appear respectively as
Assembly UNG, Organization WH and Group TWB.
15. Some comments on the figures and tables. In Figure 1 the colours in the vertical and horizontal
bars do not exactly match. Why is 2014 in the title in red? I suggest including "continuum of care" in
the title.
16. In Table 2 it would be useful to rank the rows based on the numbers in one of the columns,
depending on the message the authors want to put across. The units of percentages are not specified,
and I suggest replacing PP change with change (%) (PP is also undefined). The columns in Figure 2
should be in the same order as in Table 2. The legend in Figure 2 can be simplified to 2009-2013 /
2014-2018.
17. It's not immediately obvious in Figure 3 that the heat map consists of three separate sections:
interventions, components and CCI. I suggest wider bars separating them.

18. Figure 4 looks very good (though adolescent / adolescence needs to be consistent with Figure 5).
Slanting column titles would help the reader (particularly when reading on a tablet, where the figure
switches between landscape and portrait as you try to read them).
19. In Table 1 I wondered if the country lists were useful, particularly those at the top.
Tim Cole