Review of Rational Health Systems Distrust: the case of Ebola
This is a timely and insightful discussion of the role of trust in proper health system function. While
many of the points are sharp and apposite, there are areas that lack coherence and others where the
language could be more clear. The strongest section is on the consequences of low trust, with the three
subheaders. One major point is that this piece is not about UHC—there is no substantial link of the issue
of trust with UHC. I would remove it or expand the discussion of the connection between the two.
Specific comments below.
Page 4 Lines 16-29: I don’t follow the link between low spending and people forgoing health care. This
intro paragraph should lay out the rationale for the paper. I would make the link to Ebola here rather
than speaking about all utilization in broad terms.
Page 4 Line 32: “institutional distrust” is an unclear term that could also mean that institutions don’t
trust. Rephrase as lack of trust in institutions?
Page 4 Line 33: explain where North Kivu is and its relevance
Page 5 Line 8: maybe be more explicit and name quality as the driver? Majority of the following text is
about this.
Page 5 section on drivers: I don’t see the link between the content on quality and the specific
situation/needs of West Point. If authors want to make such a link, we need data about West Point in
addition to global numbers.
Page 6 line 14: The first sentence is unclear.
Page 6 line 29: Please add citations supporting the assertion that higher education is associated with
more trust in LICs.
Page 6 section on Populations Impacted: what is the key point intended to be conveyed in this section?
There seem to be several points without clear connection between them.
Page 8 line 24: should this be trust? Generally surveys are measuring positive sentiment—which can
certainly include the full range.
Page 8 Suggestion 2: citations?
Page 9 Suggestion 3: can examples and citations be added? Otherwise this reads as a bit generic.
Page 9 line 37: not sure distrust is always rational, though some certainly may be.
