General:

1)
‘What is already known on this topic’: bullet point 1), the authors pose a question
– under this section, this should ideally be a factual statement.
Statistics:
1)
Procedures: Can the authors justify the use of the 5 follow-up cohort years from
diabetes onset – how does categorisation increase power?
2)
Procedures: The authors suggest that the same patient might be observed in
more than one cohort – how frequent was this? How was this accounted for in the analysis
(I presume this is the GEE model) – there is the potential that the inferences made may be
affected if the same participants are used multiple times in the analysis?
3)
Procedures: Similarly can authors justify the reasons for the categorisation of
HbA1c and then using the continuous variable to estimate risk of complications? The latter
is often preferred. There are a lot of numerical results in this paper and the categorisation
clearly adds to this (Table 2). What’s more, the number of events in some categories is
small which in some cases leads to a reasonable degree of uncertainty in the results (wide
confidence intervals).
4)
Statistics: In the analysis of hypoglycaemia events, how was censoring taken into
account which was described in the ‘procedures’
5)
Statistics: The mention that no imputations were made. I did not get a sense of
how much missing data there was. How impactful might this be on the analysis?
6)
Units – this is not my area of expertise but can the authors clarify if the data
relates to HbaC1 achieved or targeted results? These may not necessarily be the same.
Also is there value in presenting results by % HbA1c and using mmol/mol
7)
Statistics: Can the use of 6.5-6.9% be justified as the reference category in the
regression. Typically to assist with the inference, a category with the larger number of
events is chosen, this may help with the point made in 3).
8)
The authors present a lot of results in the text – in particular in the Abstract I felt
the inclusion of no less than 10 results detracted from the main message. What are the
key results?
9)
There are some disparities in the ‘significance’ of some of the results between
adjusted and unadjusted analysis. It was good to see that the authors presented both
results but I would recommend the use of the term ‘significant’ is dropped when describing
these results. This largely falls back to the uncertainty in the estimates found –the true
differences is best left as presenting the CI’s (though I’m not suggesting the p-values are
removed from the Table).
10)
Figure 1 – I found this a little bit difficult to interpret given it was a little ‘busy’. I
reviewed in black and white – does colour help with this? The actual numbers are provided
in the Supplementary which is helpful.
11)
Figure 2.1 and 2.2. This is difficult to understand giving the point you are trying
to make. You report that the deviation occurs at 8.1% for 16-20 years and 8.6% for
shorter follow- up. This maybe true – but this covers a very tiny space on the plots to
see this. You also talk about ‘decrease’ over time – this might be confusing to some
readers as the lines ‘increase’. Is there a better way to present/describe this? Figure 2.2
– for two of the lines you observe overlap – is there any rationale for this?

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Jamie Kirkham
Job Title: MD
Institution: University of Liverpool
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?:
A fee for speaking?:
A fee for organising education?:
Funds for research?:
Funds for a member of staff?:
Fees for consulting?:
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?:
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?:
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

