
Thank you for the opportunity to review this systematic review of multi-morbidity indices. I
find the paper to be well written and clearly set out, and would find it useful as a
researcher who might want to use (and has used in the past) some of these tools.
In particular Table 2 setting out the outcomes and index components of the reviewed
indices is useful for comparing tools. The authors may want to consider moving some of
the tables to appendices, but I understand that it is useful to have all of the tables which
they include in their guide to selecting an index in the main paper.
Overall this is useful addition to the available (and fast growing) literature on the
assessment of multi-morbidity. I expect it would be of most interest to a research and
health policy and planning audience and am not sure that it would be used by clinicians as
the authors suggest.
I am pleased to see the explicit focus on the inclusion of mental health conditions. It would
be worth a bit more comment on why the authors have included this and why those using
the indices might want to have indices which include mental health, in order to help
readers of the paper consider the importance of mental health in any research or health
planning for multi-morbidity.
Specific comments:
The search strategies are appropriate and clearly presented. The use of the two
complementary bias assessment tools works well. I would have liked to see a brief
comment on interpreting the results of these two tools particularly where they did not
agree.
The results are clearly presented. as above it might be worth moving some tables to an
appendix.
Figure two is very interesting but hard to read. please use a larger font for the furthest out
categories on the diagram.
If possible it would be worth making a distinction between primary care and secondary
care medical records in the descriptions of indices (in tables 2 and 3), as these two sources
might provide different kinds of information, and for a slightly different population.
Again, I think this is a useful and well written paper, and i am heartened to see the
inclusion of a specific focus on mental health.
Ruth Cunningham, University of Otago