Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting and well written article. I have
reviewed this from a statistical perspective, and have some important comments for the
authors and the BMJ to consider going forward.
1) An important issue is whether the groups are comparable. All surgeons do both robotic
and usual procedures, if I understand correctly. If so, did they do an equal number of
each? Are they equally good at doing robotics and usual procedures? If not, then are the
groups comparable at all? I see that surgeon is adjusted for in the analysis, as it was a
stratification (prognostic) factor used in the randomisation design.
2) “There was no difference in days in hospital between the two groups (median 0 vs 0
days; relative risk=0.90 [95% CI=0.37-2.19]; p=0.822” – the data is count data
(Poisson), but here we have a relative risk presented, when it should be expected
difference in days. Can the authors clarify or correct please?
3) It is good to see Bayesian approaches taken. The text that justifies the Bayesian
approach is not needed (i.e. the following can be deleted as readers can find about the
Bayesian approach elsewhere: “This makes Bayesian analyses especially appealing as it
incorporates previous data (the prior), updates the estimate of treatment effect with the
results of our study to provide a clinically useful probability, which could subsequently
serve as a prior for future studies to improve the estimate’s precision. In contrast to
frequentist null hypothesis testing (e.g. p-values and odds ratios) where the outcome is
treated as dichotomous, statistically significant or not significant, Bayesian analyses
provide a range of predicted probabilities.”)
3) Table 2 and the main results should start with the primary outcome of number of
hospital days.
4) Some of the adjustment variables in the multivariable analyses (like hernia area) are
arbitrarily dichotomised, which loses power compared to included as linear or non-linear.
This should be justified and ideally corrected, perhaps allowing for a polynomial or spline
term.
A related point is that the multivariable analysis is not explained in the methods section (in
terms of adjustment factors included).
5) Prior distributions should be given for the Bayesian analysis. Indeed, it seems that the
prior distribution(s) may be having a strong influence, as there is much difference between
the frequentist results and the Bayesian results. In particular, some of the p-values appear
strange compared to the Bayesian values: “In addition, robotic repair had clinically
important differences in enterotomies (3% vs 0%; p=0.996) and less median improvement
in early post-operative quality of life (3 vs 15, p=0.060).” Bayesian approach gives 78%
chance of having more enterotomies, so why is p = 0.996 from the frequentist approach
(suggesting no clear evidence)? I can only surmise that the prior distributions are having
large impact. We need to understand why this is the case, and whether this choice of prior
distributions is justified. Sensitivity analysis for a range of priors may be warranted. The
events are so few, that the priors are driving the finding, and yet we don't even know what
they are as far as I can tell.
6) In regards the just quoted text, what is a clinically important difference? Why is 3%
clinically important compared to 0%. Seems small to me (a non expert) and has low power
(looks like about 2 in about 80 compared to 0 in 80).

7) I am not sure why the authors consider a cost ratio, and not a mean difference in costs,
which is more understandable I think.
8) It is not clear how the continuous outcomes were analysed. It looks like a change score
analysis was done, but analysis of covariance is recommended (final score adjusted for
baseline score). For example, “At 1-month follow up, median AW-QOL scores of patients
who underwent RVHR only improved by 3 points, while those in the LVHR group
experienced a clinically important increase of 15 points in their median scores” – this
should be followed by an analysis of covariance analysis. See ref 1
9) I do not agree with the use of ‘major worsening’ and ‘major improvement’ based on
categorisation of the continuous outcome AW-QOL. This implies that those just below and
just above the threshold are different, which is not sensible. As mentioned, considering the
outcome as continuous and adjusting for baseline is the more appropriate analysis.
10) Why are some outcomes 90 days, and others 1 month?
11) 11) “This study unexpectedly demonstrated that RVHR was associated with an
increased enterotomy rate (3% vs 0%)” – do the authors mean risk here, not rate? Also,
where is this outcome listed in the methods, or even given in the results or tables? The
outcome is a major part of the abstract and the discussion, but not mentioned in the
results or tables. Am I missing something?!
12) There is very little discussion of limitations of the study.
I hope these comments help refine and enhance the paper going forward.
Best wishes, Prof Richard Riley
References
1. Vickers AJ and Altman DG. Statistics notes: Analysing controlled trials with baseline and
follow up measurements. Bmj. 2001; 323: 1123-4.
