Thank you for the opportunity to review your paper. I hope my comments are useful to you in
thinking about how best to present your work to highlight its novel contribution.
First, I think an examination of delivering value in the NHS and a discussion about how lean tools can
help deliver that value is very important. This is the foundation of lean yet sometimes overlooked in
favor of 'eliminating waste'. Of course, you can't really know what is waste until you understand the
concept of value from the perspective of the customer.
The paper discusses value as the first principle of lean and offers a discussion about what value means
and how the concept differs between a healthcare context and a manufacturing context. The five
principles of lean are presented in a manner that translates to healthcare however I think the authors
have omitted to discuss the interrelatedness of lean principles through their framing of value as being
the pursuit of lean implementation (Toussaint and colleagues do this really well). The pursuit of Lean
is actually about making value-adding activity flow (through identification and elimination of waste)
it's through this QI process of understanding value, identifying waste (through value stream mapping
etc) and eliminating that waste as far as possible, that delivers enhanced value (better speed, quality,
dependability of processes etc), so that processes are delivered to the 'customer' at the right time, in
the right place, in the right way.
You also note the importance of approaching lean as a 'management system', referencing Kaplan et al
(2014). So all in, it feels as though you are presenting lots of ideas around lean but actually the focus
of the paper is on the 3P tool as a mechanism for engaging stakeholders (including patients) in the
redesign of a facility. With this in mind, I still feel the manuscript lacks the red thread between lean as
a set of principles, a management system and lean tools. Perhaps you do not need all of these
components and perhaps you should focus instead of the 3P tool. As you say, it is rarely discussed in
the literature but can be very useful as a way of engaging stakeholders in a discussion about what
delivers value to the service user, (which is different to 'making value flow'). So it seems to me that

the contribution of the paper is in the use of 3P to engage stakeholders in the design of new facilities
and processes and this should be explored in more detail.
Relatedly, I really liked the use of Box 1 and I wonder if you should provide more detail on these
applications of 3P and also more detail on the research study you describe, in particular how the 3P
event informed the design in more detail. In summary, I feel the paper lacks focus at the moment and
would benefit from refinement of contribution and better linkages of ideas.
I hope my comments are useful and wish you luck with future development of your paper.