This is a credible study with an interesting and topical research question. From the
plethora of reviews that have looked at harms, reviewing studies that have looked at
preventable/avoidable harm is likely to be more novel – this stems from the
difficulty in making such assessments.
In a review that looked at ADRs in a paediatric setting – the study also looked at
causality, severity and avoidability. This maybe a good reference point as the study
reported that only a few studies looked at an assessment of avoidability.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3293884/pdf/pone.0024061.pdf
Should any of the studies in this review that look at avoidability be included in this
review, i.e. those published in 2010 onwards. For example should the Gallagher
2011 study be included which used the Hallas tool to assess avoidability?
I see your search strategy does include both the terms preventable and avoidable –
this is important as these are often interchangeable terms.
To assess risk of bias, the N-O scale was used. This is credible to assess the overall
quality of the studies. However, in the context of this review, it may also be
beneficial to have a review author assessment of the method of preventability
assessment in each study. While there may be no tools to do this, the authors could
define what they think is important criteria, for example, was a validated tool used,
e.g. Hallas, LAAT

(https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0169393). Who
performed the assessments, was it a single assessor / consensus approach / were
relevant guidelines referred to etc. A lot of studies appeared to use a Likert Scale
with a score over 4 (on a 6 point scale) being defined as preventable. This seems
hard to contemplate given that a harm being preventable or not is a binary
outcome. How does the impact on the quality of the preventability tool used affect
the conclusions to the review? [see comment below]
The use of meta-analytic techniques to present the data seems reasonable - this
provides a useful pictorial representation of the event rates for each study.
However, the authors should consider whether presenting the pooled results is
credible, given the very high levels of heterogeneity observed. The overall pooled
result reported as the main finding is clearly influenced by those in an intensive care
setting.
Pg 11 – line 24 Table 2? Not Table 1? Some of the results reported in the text are
not found in this table – result of pooling preventable / non-preventable? Again high
levels of heterogeneity – is pooling always sensible?
In the meta-regression, the method of preventability seems to be an important
factor – again this needs to be put in the context of my point above about the
quality of this assessment approach.
