Clearly the researchers have pulled this together with impressive speed. I have focused on the issue of
whether the questions the paper addresses are relevant and important to patients and/or carers
I think the questions are relevant and important to patients/carers in the medium-term, when ‘lessons
learned’ activities are conducted and a finding that extant guidelines were inadequate will make a
material contribution. However, during the active phase of the epidemic, I would have thought that the
key focus should be
a) In relation to research, ensuring all extant guidelines are found, comparing any evidence of their
efficacy, and applying any findings for treatment of patients now (tables 2-4 may be beneficial here),
and
b) using practical experience with treating patients to consider whether the way extant guidelines are
being used should be altered in order to achieve improved outcomes. In this regard, perhaps the
findings of this research as to the shortcomings of extant guidelines may be useful in admitting more
questioning of them by clinicians at the coal-face now.
The authors say: “As the COVID-19 pandemic grows, clinical guidelines will be in increasing demand
globally. This rapid review contains lessons both for the current and future pandemics.”. My sense is
that the contribution of this research is primarily in relation to guidelines for future pandemics, as
expressly stated at the end of the discussion: “This review has lessons for clinicians, stakeholders and
governments facing future outbreaks”. This research also has wider future implications for in relation to
its critique of the WHO’s methodology for developing all internal guidelines. I am not in a position to
judge whether the research could have been improved in any respect if it has been conducted at less
speed, having regard to its seemingly greater value after the initial active phase of tackling the
epidemic.
On points of detail:
• “vulnerable groups” are described by example: “such as pregnant women, children and the elderly”
[p2, line 55]. Table 5 only adds HIV/immunocompromised. Does there need to be a more precise
definition. In the UK, for instance, Government guidance has a more comprehensive list of those people
who are at high risk
• related to the above point, it seems that ‘vulnerable’ and ‘high risk’ are used fairly interchangeably.
Thus: “high risk groups such as the elderly” [p2, line 57]; “inclusive of vulnerable patient groups” [p3,

line 22]; “inclusivity of high risk populations” [p3, line 60]; “lack of recommendations for vulnerable,
high risk populations” [p20, line 38]
• “No successful therapeutic intervention for COVID-19 has yet been established, so supportive care is
the most important aspect of clinical management.” [p3, line 10]. The normal meaning of ‘therapeutic’
is ‘improving health’. I’m not clear if ‘supportive care’ has a very specific meaning in this context, but it
suggests to me something more akin to palliative care. In which case, actions such as putting patients
on ventilators is surely a therapeutic intervention aimed at achieving recovery rather than supportive
care. The use of this terminology is similarly confusing in
“There was great variety in the character of the supportive care recommendations in the guidelines,
varying from brief notes or flow diagrams to lengthy, nuanced descriptions of therapeutic options.” [p11,
line 3]
• Table 2 heading: typo “international”.
