In order to give some context to my review I need to point out at the outset that I have no technical
knowledge of systematic review and found some of the research challenging to read and understand.
That said I view my role as a Patient and Public Reviewer to comment on whether the review/ subject is
of interest to patients, has involved them meaningfully and are the conclusions relevant to patients and
the public.
This is a very interesting topic of particular relevance to me as I have had extensive imaging including
yearly, monitoring scans. I agree with the authors about media headlines fuelling hype in this area and
was shocked, but not surprised when the review exposed the lack of actual evidence base. Of particular
concern is the FDA approving 16 deep learning algorithms for marketing despite only one RCT registered
in the USA.
Relevance to Patients
There is no doubt that this topic is of great relevance to patients, access to and accurate, timely
reporting of imaging can improve diagnosis, monitor treatment and contribute to disease management.
Inflated claims in the press regarding AI, without the evidence base to back them up, are potentially
damaging. I was particularly concerned to read about the website address in one abstract that allowed
patients to upload their eye scans and use the algorithm themselves.
The authors are to be congratulated for so clearly outlining the lack of RCT's in this area, highlighting the
need to temper conclusions, improve reporting, transparency ( especially around sharing the algorithm
and data used ), eliminate bias and cut through the exaggerated claims.

Missing Topics/ Issues
The major flaw for me in this research is the absence of any patient/ carer involvement which would
have contributed to the research and the issues it raises being " patient insight driven " as opposed to
surmising what patients think. That might have raised issues such as accountability, who has ultimate
responsibility for results when " machines " read a scan? Does AI help the problem of so called "
incidental findings "? Does AI improve the interpretation of scan results in the context of ongoing
symptoms, what amount of clinical information is optimum and should patients have a role in describing
their symptoms to potentially improve diagnosis? Is it only clinical signs and symptoms that are helpful
in this context, if patients don't get to input their data/ symptoms/ experience are we missing a vital
piece of the diagnostic jigsaw? I have a rare disease, my experience has been that the interpretation of
imaging can be challenging and can affect diagnosis and treatment .This touches on the authors
definition of expert as " appropriately board certified specialist attending or equivalent ", do they mean
any qualified radiologist? Is the definition relevant when considering specialist scans or imaging in rare/
complex disease? If there are relatively few specialist radiologists in areas such as neuro radiology could
AI potentially improve the reporting of imaging in geographical areas that don't currently have access to
them and so improve patient care? The authors talk about protecting patients and make assumptions
about what patients think yet sought no patient insight or involvement.
In conclusion this is a robust systematic review which highlights many issues and makes a series of
excellent recommendations none of which I would take issue with. Its very timely given the media
interest in this field and the potential for more trial results in this area being reported in the next few
years.
The AI-TREE collaboration to guide best practice in AI for healthcare is interesting and the authors are
right to highlight its importance, its disappointing that there is no patient involvement in this initiative,
its confined to clinicians, methodologists, statisticians, data scientists and healthcare policy makers.
I am left with the feeling of a missed opportunity to incorporate the views of patients and carers in this
important debate, AI is new and innovative yet once again patients have been relegated to the role of
passive recipients in this debate rather than active participants, another thing done to us rather than
with us. I am left wondering how some patient involvement and insight may have altered the
conclusions and recommendations of this otherwise excellent review, a wasted opportunity?
