Review: Role of Industry
General comments:
I enjoyed reading this well-written, comprehensive article on the role of food
industry. Several key changes are needed to further improve this manuscript.
Major comments:
1. Key Messages: current bullets are oversimplified and do not match the
important text in several sections of the manuscript. Specifically:
- Second bullet is oversimplified – see major comment #2, below.
- Add the major role of historical science in promoting low-fat, high starch,
inexpensive foods (see separate BMJ article in this series on history of modern
nutrition science); the major role of consumer demand (see major comment #5,
below); and the major role of technologic advances in agriculture and food
processing. (lines 110-113)
- Add the major potential role of research/innovation
- Add that processed foods do not inherently need to be unhealthy, that processed
foods lie on a complex and varied spectrum (line 34, lines 79-80)
- Add key message on lines 157-160: true external/societal costs not incorporated;
AND that this is a role for industry to ASK for society to incorporate these costs and
benefits, helping them to create and promote healthier products.
2. The manuscript throughout relies on a "pop culture" shorthand for unhealthy
foods as being high in salt, saturated fat, and sugar. This is grossly oversimplified
and misleading. The major limitations of commercial foods are excess starch, sugar,
and salt (not fats; or even saturated fat, the major sources of which are dairy foods
and meats) AND insufficient healthful ingredients from fruits, veggies, legumes,
nuts, seeds, minimally processed whole grains, and seafood. This accurate list is
undoubtedly longer than more complex than the grossly oversimplified "fat, sugar,
and salt", yet crucial to state correctly. The manuscript (and key messages) should
clearly describe this list at the outset and in the key messages (i.e., "processed
foods are generally high in inexpensive, shelf-stable, unhealthful ingredients such as
refined starch, added sugar, and salt, and low in more expensive, more perishable,
beneficial ingredients such as fruits, veggies (other than potatoes), legumes, nuts,
seeds, minimally processed whole grains, and seafood."); and then throughout the

rest of the manuscript, use a shorthand such as "high in unhealthful and low in
beneficial ingredients." All shorthand usages of "salt, unhealthy fats, sugar" etc.
should be replaced.
3. Lines 45, 137-139: the "evolutionary drive for taste" argument has sold lots of
books and benefited pop culture careers, but is highly theoretical and not supported
by considerable empirical evidence, including huge differences in dietary preferences
across and within cultures, and huge changes in dietary preferences within both
populations and individuals over time. Clarify that this is a theory, but remains to
be substantiated and is not supported by the facts above.
4. Subsections are needed to clarify and highlight the key points. These could start,
for example, at line 76 (Big Food vs. Big Tobacco); line 122 (Growth); line 130
(Processing); line 145 (Market Concentration); line 157 (True Societal Costs); etc.
5. The major role of consumer demand is missing, and should be added in a new
subsection, e.g.,. between lines 180 and 181. e.g., While consumer demand is
powerfully shaped by marketing, many large multinational companies have tried to
introduce healthier versions of products, but with spectacular failure. Cite examples
of this, and how rather than offering healthier products, stealth approaches to
altering the main product (e.g., Subway and Campbell's slowly and stealthily
reducing sodium, PepsiCo's 7-UP slowly and stealthily reducing sugar) may provide
the best solution. Also discuss the role of govt in supporting changes in consumer
demand.
6. Some key statements are oversimplified and require significant modification to
reflect the true complexity. Lines 59-60: failure to nourish the global population is
driven by numerous factors beyond "highly profitable ultraprocessed foods",
including challenges in food waste, access, cost, transport, historical priorities
(mention our BMJ paper in this series on history of modern nutrition science), etc.
Line 63: "overeating" is grossly oversimplified and places blame on the individual.
The problem is poor diet quality, or true "mal"nutrition including excess availability
and marketing of unhealthful ingredients and insufficient availability and marketing
of healthy foods. Line 173: not really: whatever the commercial food system
produces (even healthier products), any industry of any kind will generally oppose
govt regulation on first principles alone. They key is to make these govt regulations
win-win for industry, e.g., combining sticks with carrots.
7. Line 101: Need more details to add here concrete examples of how the food
system has shown it can successfully play a role for greater societal benefit while
maintaining profitability. This can include discussion and citations relating to food
system trends and successes in (a) sustainability, (b) diversification of portfolios, (c)
shifts to reduce TFA, (d) shifts to increase fiber and whole grains, etc.
8. Line 113: Need to add more details here, going back earlier than 1990s to
discuss how scientific trends and societal needs from 1920-1950 drove the current
system. Can summarize and cite our BMJ paper in this series on history of modern
nutrition science.
9. Lines 157-160: crucial section on true societal costs. Expand this into a larger
subsection, and include in Key Messages.
Page 7-8: A new subsection is needed on the major technological challenges in
including healthful ingredients in processed, inexpensive foods at scale, which are
generally far more perishable and variable than starchy staples. This also ties in
with expanding a new subsection on the need for research and innovation, PPP,

government support and incentives for such research, etc.; which could be placed
near line 200.
10. Line 181-190: Add challenge of the great majority of multinational companies
now being public and being driven by short-term profits and stock prices. Also add
concrete examples of solutions here, including: (a) Danone-Wave in the US
incorporating as now the largest "B corporation" in the US (can take into
consideration societal issues, not just shareholder profits); (b) examples of many
food companies successfully prioritizing sustainability as a model without losing
money; and (c) major new trends in consumer demand not just for health, but for
trust and transparency (especially among millennials) as key profit motivators.
11. Lines 227-235: This is the crux of the manuscript – not a description of the
history, problems, and challenges, which the rest of the manuscript discusses, but
the actual ROLE of industry. This section needs considerable expansion, with a new
Box summarizing the key, specific actions that industry can and should take. e.g.
much of lines 240-254 could be moved to such a Box.
12. The current manuscript focus is largely on issues related to food manufacturers.
New Subsections and discussion are needed on the potential role for agribusiness
and farming, as well as restaurant chains and major cafeteria vendors

Other comments:
Key Messages, first bullet: edit to "…especially in high and middle income countries,
and increasingly in low income countries…"
Key Messages, last bullet: Govts and the commercial food system need to show
leadership
Lines 46-53: excellent – move to the very start of the manuscript (Intro)
Lines 48-50: add independent and large chain restaurants, cafeteria vendors. Line
72: define "food service" more clearly.
Lines 84-93: excellent
Line 131-132: and processing has increased access and increased food safety
related to foodborne infection.
Line 207: not just healthier, but also more trusted and transparent
Line 217: can cite and discuss our BMJ paper in this series on the role of govt.
Lines 255-264 are highly general and can be deleted or greatly shortened, instead
referring to this other paper. Conclusions should focus on role of industry, not govt.

Dariush Mozaffarian, MD DrPH