Dyspepsia is a highly prevalent condition with heterogeneous aetiology; however, the
majority of patients have functional causes of symptoms. Decision making can be difficult.
Costs related to the management of this patient group are high. Any guidance as to the
most appropriate management strategy in this condition is welcome.
The authors present the results of a network meta-analysis (15 eligible RCTs, containing
6162 participants) to assess optimal management of dyspepsia presenting to primary or
secondary care physicians, specifically prompt endoscopy, “test and treat”, “test and
scope”, empirical acid suppression, or symptom-based management.
Effectiveness was reported as a pooled relative risk (RR) of remaining symptomatic to
summarise effectiveness of each comparison tested, and ranked by strategy according to
P-score. Of the five strategies, “test and treat” was ranked first and this approach was also
less likely to result in subsequent endoscopy (cost saving). However, none of the strategies
was significantly less effective than “test and treat”, or more effective than each other, on
direct or indirect comparison. By contrast, rates of dissatisfaction with management were
significantly lower among participants randomised to prompt endoscopy, compared with
“test and treat” and empirical acid suppression.
Ford and colleagues are highly experienced in this field of research and, although I am no
expert in statistical research, it appears that the performance of the network meta-analysis
meets every technical benchmark. The authors recognize that interpretation of the results
is challenging because of the heterogeneity of the patients included in the original RCTs,
variable length of follow-up and the assumptions involved in comparing competing
strategies. Sensitivity analyses investigate potential confounding for many of these factors.
Comment
The test and treat approach was ranked highest; however, this management strategy was
not significantly superior to any of the other strategies. Based on this marginal result, test
and treat is presented as the best option. This is different to previous analyses that tended

to favour prompt endoscopy over test and treat, empirical acid suppression and other
strategies. My interpretation of the findings is that the network meta-analysis shows no
overall superiority of one strategy over another. Is this interpretation wrong?
My concerns about the interpretation of the results and clinical recommendation is also
informed by studies that suggest the efficacy and cost-efficacy of “test and treat” depends
on the prevalence of Helicobacter pylori, resistance to eradication therapy, and the health
care system. These issues should be discussed. Is the recommendation for “test and treat”
valid in populations with very low or very high rates of Helicobacter pylori infection? This
consideration will impact on the generalizability of this work and should be discussed.
A key argument supporting test and treat in the discussion is cost-effectiveness. No new
analysis is provided; however, there is no doubt that endoscopy is the key driver of cost in
the management of dyspepsia. The yield of serious organic disease in dyspeptic patients
with no alarm symptoms is very low. Nonetheless patient satisfaction with prompt
endoscopy was higher than for test and treat or other strategies such as symptom based
management. I agree that patient preference does not outweigh all other considerations,
specifically cost; however, in systems with few barriers to health care, dissatisfaction with
management decisions often leads to further doctor visits and additional health care
related costs. Unless these recommendations can be enforced… a patient that wants an
endoscopy will usually obtain one. This consideration will impact on the applicability of this
work in many settings.
In my opinion, based on the results of this high-quality analysis, no one strategy is clearly
superior. In this situation it is reasonable for clinicians to apply their own judgement based
on factors such as pre-test probability of Helicobacter pylori and patient preference. Not all
patients want an endoscopy. Similarly, not all want antibiotics (i.e. eradication therapy)
and many do not want life-long acid suppression therapy. Meeting patient expectation is
not unreasonable if there is no clearly superior strategy. Further, rigorous application of
guidelines that ignores patient satisfaction will impact on the doctor-patient relationship
which is very important in the long-term management of individuals with functional
gastrointestinal disorders.

Minor points
The method used to rank strategies according to P-score should be explained not only in
the text (p11) but also in the abstract. This is necessary to avoid confusion to readers that
are used to p-values indicating significance.
There is no attempt to weigh up the impact of different strategies on patient quality of life.
To what extent are cost savings from not performing endoscopy offset by reduced quality
of life due to (oftenbaseless but real) concerns about underlying disease?
One issue with interpreting the efficacy of test and treat is, that in case of a positive test,
PPI therapy will be provided in addition to antibiotics. This will reduce symptoms not only if
symptoms are related to Hp associated disease, but also if dyspepsia is related to reflux.
These symptoms are likely to return; however, this often occurs after a few weeks (not
days) in patients with less severe GERD. This can confound comparisons of test and treat
with other strategies.