This is a very important and a timely review and the paper is very well written.. This updated review
now includes stratification by general population and those with pre-existing history of atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease. The original review was published in 2016 and included 53 prospective cohort
studies with 1.6 million individuals. This updated review is much more extensive and overall includes
124 prospective cohort studies with over 3.7 million individuals with a median follow-up of 8.8 years.
The paper presents more robust current estimates of the risk of cardiovascular events and mortality. The
search was updated up to 9th December 2019 and I would suggest the search is updated further as we
are nearly 4 months further into the last updated search. They excluded case controlled studies or

analysis from clinical trials although it would be useful to have control arm of clinical trials as there are
many randomised controlled prevention trials with majority of the studies conducted in people with
impaired glucose tolerance. The authors also need to define what constitutes composite cardiovascular
events. In the results the authors should include the countries or the regions these studies were
published.
The results show that in the general population pre-diabetes is associated with increased risk of
all-cause mortality, composite cardiovascular disease, coronary heart disease and stroke. With impaired
glucose tolerance carrying a higher risk compared to impaired fasting glucose which has been published
in previous studies. The novel findings are in people with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and
prediabetes who also have slightly higher relative risk for all-cause mortality, composite cardiovascular
events, a similar relative risk to coronary heart disease with no observed differences for stroke. The
relative risks are not surprisingly slightly higher in people with established cardiovascular disease
compared to the general population. However, it would be very useful for the authors to report on the
incidence rates by the general population and those with established CVD. It would also be useful for
these data to be reported separately for men and women and in people in the general population and
those with established cardiovascular disease separately.
In this section on subgroup analysis page 12 (line 55), the authors state that prediabetes was associated
with all-cause mortality composite cardiovascular diseases and CHD among all sub-group comparisons. I
would suggest they expand a little here on the subgroup comparisons in this section.
Overall there was no significant heterogeneity for observed outcomes with different definitions of
prediabetes which is again quite an important finding as this does have clinical implications on how we
assess prediabetes. HbA1c is a much easier to measure and preferred method for screening compared to
an OGTT and the authors could add this further to the discussion. This information would help
stratification if low resource countries may want to prioritise a screening program.
Minor points:
It was odd that in the abstract objective the author starts with “The term prediabetes is still rather a
great controversy”. I would suggest removing this from the objective.
The authors use the term prediabetes throughout, I would suggest right in the beginning adding other
terms used to describe prediabetes such as non-diabetic hyperglycaemia or “those at high risk of
diabetes” - terms that have been used by some international guidelines.
I would also suggest adding mmol/l as well as mg/dl and similarly for HbA1c having percentages and
mmol throughout the manuscript.
They mention diabetes prevention studies which include DPP and the Da Qing studies. However, there
have been a number of studies globally with a number of meta-analysis with consistent findings across
population. It would help to include these.
Page 17(line 12) strangely the authors mention that individuals with prediabetes are more likely to
progress to diabetes than those with normoglycaemia. This is a confusing statement and I would
suggest removing it.
Table 1 Meta-regression: legend states slopes but these are not described within the manuscript. Some
descriptions regarding the slope would be useful.
Figure 2, 3 and 4 - it is unclear what different coloured point estimates relate to?
