This is a very important manuscript as it deals with the outbreak in Zhejiang which is
the second largest outbreak of the novel coronavirus outside of Wuhan. Although no
deaths have been reported from Zhejiang, the size of the outbreak is huge with close
to 600 reported cases to date. Also the measures taken by the province are drastic
with the total shutdown of Wenzhou. As such the manuscript is timely but there are
several issues which need to be addressed. They include
Major
1) The rationale for using a 10 day cutoff to divide the cohort is not clear. In the
Huang et al reference cited to justify this, the median time to dyspnea was 8 days
and the median time to ARDS was 9 days, ICU admission 10.5 days. It would make
more sense to look at the cohort as a whole and provide some data on the duration
of illness for the whole cohort.
2) The way the results are presented also does not make sense. Patients in the tables
are essentially counted twice – first in the whole cohort and then in the “10 day
cohort” Given the fact that patients were essentially kept in hospital until they were
presumably PCR negative for the coronavirus, what the two groups appear to
represent are those who presented earlier in the epidemic in Zhejiang vs those who
presented later in the epidemic. This should be emphasized and perhaps the whole
cohort analysed together.
3) It is not clear from recently published reports (references 1,9 and 10) that “most
of the patients had been to the local seafood market as stated in lines 72 and 73.
Also the viral genomes are not closely related to snake genomes!
4) The figure in line 76 is misleading as the total number of cases of SARS and MERS
appear to be added up although the references only refer to MERS. It would be
clearer to separate MERS from SARS and report cases and deaths from both
5) The statement in line 82 that the virus is mainly transmitted from animals to
humans is also not supported by any data. Although the virus is related to a bat
virus, to date, there has been no animal shown to be infected with this virus. Perhaps
the authors could say instead “The virus is believed to have been transmitted from
animals”
6) The case definition needs to be provided. There is a citation to reference 1 which
does not have a clinical case definition but has only two cases described without a
case definition.
7) While the drug “Lopina veletonavir” may be available in China as a variant of
lopinavir-ritonavir, some reference needs to be provided to help understand its
pharmacology (line 129) similarly for inhaled interferon 1B
8) Details also should be provided for steroids, “gamma globulin” and probiotics used
in the patients. Perhaps an additional table could be used to list out the different
treatment modalities used and the outcomes in simple terms such as number of days
on oxygen therapy
9) It is not clear what is the difference between “long term residents” of Wuhan and
“short term visitors” if all the study subjects lived in Zhejiang. Presumably all of the
individuals studied had left Wuhan for Zhejiang at some point in time and the
duration that they stayed in Wuhan might be considered a variable in estimating their

exposure to infected patients in Wuhan perhaps. That is unless the “long term
residents” were people who fled Wuhan to avoid the lockdown and thus were more
likely to be incubating the virus. This does not seem to be the case as the
presumption is that all the infections were acquired in Wuhan and the incubation
period is calculated from the time the short term visitors left the city.
10) Line 165 includes the intriguing figure of one third of the cases associated with
family clusters. More information is needed on this – did whole families travel to
Wuhan and get infected or were there index cases who travelled who infected others
in their families?
11) There are contradictions in the numbers of individuals in the family clusters – line
165 says that overall, it was more than one third 21/62 but of those who had been
infected earlier – i.e. hospitalised for more than 10 days, it was “less than one third”
but reported as 21/33 (line 169). This may be a typo but it is interesting if indeed the
first cohort were more likely to be travellers while the more recently infected were
locally acquired in Zhejiang from family members. This needs to be clarified.
12) Line 184 describes leukopenia as a feature of the patients but it was apparently
seen in only a third so it may not be the case
13) Line 188 states that all patients had abnormal chest x-rays or CT scans. Then line
192 states that one patient did not have pneumonia. It is not clear what were the
findings in the patient without pneumonia
14) Line 196 has the most intriguing statement that based on criteria of 3 days of
stability and clearance of virus, only one of 62 patients was able to be discharged.
This should be clarified – did these patients with apparently mild disease continue
shedding virus? Or were they still unstable? This should be clarified
15) The main conclusions are not clearly supported by the data. The mildness of the
infection cannot be confirmed without more data. With the family clusters, it is not
clear if these are just secondary infections or are they tertiary infections. Person to
person transmission has been established since the beginning of the infection as
there is still no evidence of an animal source.
Minor
1) The grammar needs some work – for example in the objectives, patients are not
imported. The disease is imported with patients who move. Terms such as “Rare of
patients developed shortness of breath” should be re-written as “It was rare for
patients to develop shortness of breath”
2) The case report form should be provided in the supplementary material and ideally
this should conform to standard case reporting
