The authors present the outcome of a stepped-wedge cluster trial of routine
ultrasonography for women deemed to be at low-risk of complications. Due to the
low-frequency of adverse obstetric outcomes this trial design is a pragmatic approach to
generate much needed evidence in maternal care. A similar approach has recently been
used to address the management of women attending with reduced fetal movements
(Norman et al. Lancet 2018).
This study addresses an important clinical question prioritised by professionals and the
public in the Stillbirth Priority Setting Partnership i.e. does routine ultrasound reduce
perinatal mortality (Heazell et al. Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol. 2015 Dec;46(6):641-7).
Thus, the authors have attempted to answer an important clinical question.
Major Comments
The authors have published the protocol and have conducted the trial and analysis in line
with this document. The primary and secondary outcomes is the same as described in the
protocol. However, I do not understand the rationale for inclusion of septicaemia and
meningitis as an adverse outcome as these would not be expected to be altered by
ultrasound detection of SGA. However, their exclusion from the composite outcome does
not alter the findings so no further action is required.

The study almost achieves the size required by the power calculation. A detailed statistical
review will be required to ensure that the sample size calculation is appropriate for a
stepped-wedge cluster design over and above a cluster trial design. To my reading, this
trial may not have employed the appropriate method to account for between and within
cluster variation.
I am concerned that no wash-out periods were applied to the analysis. It seems very
unlikely that the intervention was introduced immediately from the first day of
randomisation to the intervention group. From the data it is clear that a significant
proportion of the women in the intervention arm did not receive the two ultrasound scans
as the mean number of scans performed was 1.84. Can the authors run a sensitivity
analysis restricted to those who received the intervention per protocol or run an analysis
allowing for a three month washout while practice changed? I appreciate that these were
not in their protocol, but it would give an indication whether this intervention is ineffective
at both a policy and implementation levels, or whether the intervention took time to
implement.
Why was prenatal SGA defined solely on abdominal circumference rather than estimated
fetal weight as a whole? Guidelines recommend using fetal biometry to calculate an
estimated fetal weight which should then be compared to population charts rather than
isolated abdominal circumference. This choice of metric needs a clearer justification.
The accuracy of ultrasound to predict an SGA infant seems particularly low in their cohort.
The recent Cochrane systematic review of test accuracy studies (Heazell et al. Cochrane
Database Syst Review, 2019) finds ultrasound estimated fetal weight has a pooled
sensitivity of 54% (95% CI 43 – 65%) to identify an infant with a birthweight <10th
centile. Furthermore, there was no difference in the different formulae used to calculate
EFW. I think that the authors need to consider more carefully in the discussion whether the
low test-accuracy seen in their study was an important factor in the lack of difference seen
with their intervention. Are there any analyses of scan quality which could be included?
Minor Comments
The term intrauterine growth restriction is less accurate than fetal growth restriction,
because it is the fetus which is growth restricted rather than other contents of the uterus. I
recommend using fetal growth restriction and FGR throughout the manuscript.
The statement describing the two interventions could be more clear. I think it would be
easier to understand if if read “The control strategy (CAU) comprised monitoring fetal
growth by serial fundal height measurements and ultrasonographic measurement of fetal
growth if clinically indicated. In addition to their usual care, women in the intervention
strategy received two routine third trimester biometry ultrasounds were performed at
28–30 weeks’ gestation and 34–36 weeks’ gestation to detect FGR.”
Alexander Heazell