Review of BMJ-2019-052557
This is an excellent addition to the now large number of studies performed by this group,
all with a similar methodology. Together these studies have transformed the way the field
understands the risks of psychiatric medication in pregnancy, and this study is no
exception. It is careful, thoughtful, and certainly worthy of publication. I have some
minor comments that may improve the manuscript, listed below by page and line number.
2 l 46 – It’s hard to see from data presented in abstract how you reach a conclusion of any
increased risk of cardiac malformations – the confidence interval crosses 1. If you are
inferring this because of results of sensitivity analyses (> 2 prescriptions, as in sFigure 4),
then you need to state that explicitly in text. The results section does not mention this in
the text, as you do here in abstract.
4 l 21 – how many did enroll? How far off the goal is it?
4 l 33ff – check grammar/syntax, you have an incomplete sentence here (s.b. “seven of
whom . . .”
4 l 47 – tell us what the limitations of spontaneous adverse reports are
5 l 50-51 – technically I suppose Lithium’s link with cardiac defects classifies it as
teratogenic, though the authors’ own recent work finds that effect only for high doses, so it
seems overly dramatic to classify it in the same group with thalidomide – and see below
for the table, you list different medications there, list should be consistent
6 l29ff – Can you clarify whether those in the duloxetine or reference groups could have
been taking other drugs than those mentioned? I.e., benzos? Another antidepressant?
Table 2 implies that they could be taking other antidepressants, so shouldn’t this fact be
included as a limitation?
9 l 16-17 – I don’t quite understand what gets you from 8 million down to 1.3 to 1.5
million – can you explain more about the Medicaid eligibility criteria and cohort exclusion
criteria in the methods? Does lack of continuous Medicaid eligibility account for that big
drop, or is there something else?

11 l 42-43 – I don’t see how these results suggest a small increased risk in small for
gestational age, all the confidence intervals cross 1.
13 l 37 – not sure I agree that cardiac malformations are the center of the concern about
SSRIs – this group’s work has largely laid that outmoded concern to rest . . .
14 l 17 – I would call these limitations rather than weaknesses – they are inherent in the
study design rather than failures of the study team
17 l 43ff – The fact that many authors have grants from the company that produced this
drug is cause for concern, though I do not detect systematic bias in the results.
Figure 1 – very clear and helpful, but underlines the issues I have mentioned above with
interpretation for cardiac defects and small for gestational age, which appear here NOT to
be associated with duloxetine in the adjusted models.
sTable 3 – potentially teratogenic medications iisted here are not the same as those listed
in the text
sTable 5 and 6 – very hard to read these across multiple pages, can you repeat the
headings on each page?
Multiple tables – can you explain in table footnotes the use of “standard difference,” as
many readers will not be familiar with this
SFigures 22-24 – there are three colors on these figures but only two groups marked in
legen
