Many thanks for inviting me to review this interesting manuscript. The authors present an interesting
and timely overview of an important area of healthcare practice. Their focus on raising and responding
to concerns as practically difficult and contentious work is useful as is the problematising of the role of
policy/diktat and the policy-practice gap. More specific points are:
Page 1 lines 37-40 “As a consequence, enquiry reports have frequently suggested actions to
encourage ‘speaking up’, none so more directly than the recent Francis Inquiry into failings at
Mid-Staffordshire Hospital”…….I’m not sure Francis Inquiry can now be described as “recent”, given
that since 2013 there have been several other similar inquiries which would better fit the description
of “recent” – Gosport (as mentioned in the article), Kirkup x2….Also, it might make more sense to the
reader if the “Francis Review” was referenced in the text (line 40), as well as, or instead of,
referencing the Francis Inquiry. The content in box 2 which the reader is signposted to is rightly
supported by a reference to the Francis Review, so I’m not sure the Francis Inquiry reference is
needed or helpful?
Many of the issues identified in the section ‘diversity and ambiguity in speaking up’ are also relevant
to the person at the receiving end of the concern, who could be identified as the ‘hearer’, be it a line
manager, director of nursing/therapies/medicine etc. For example, the ‘hearer’ can often become
embroiled in the process of escalating concerns on behalf of staff and have to negotiate similar
tribulations to those who speak-up, which are well outlined on p.2 line 33 to page 3 line 28. Although
not always well covered in the literature or in inquiry reports, the act of ‘shooting the messenger’ is
often not isolated to the person who initially speaks up. For example, our work (1) (there may be
other and/or better examples) on speaking-up at board level by nurse directors, illustrates that the
task of conveying concerns to others can also be fraught. My main point is that the authors should at
least consider slightly extending the discussion to embrace the (sometimes) difficulties of the hearer’s
position in this process. It could even be argued that the way the hearer is positioned in the extant
literature/theory may itself be a further example of simplistic distinction…..the speaker/hearer
dichotomy can obscure that when information is conveyed the hearer at times (although not always)
has to subsequently raise the concern with others which opens up similar dynamics to those
experienced by those who initially speak-up. This could then signpost that further discussion of
‘hearing and acting’ occurring from page 4 onwards.
The examples on p.4 lines 28-46 are fine in terms of gaps between policies and managerial practices.
There are, however, similar policy-practice gaps that extend beyond local/organisational management
which have resulted in clinicians becoming more suspicious of speaking-up and of the “pro”
speaking-up claims made by managers/organisations and national policy. Two recent cases in
medicine spring to mind, the cases of Drs Bawa-Garba and Day and the dispartity between the claims
and actions of the GMC and HEE. Whilst a full overview/analysis of these cases would be beyond the
remit of the paper, these cases are illustrative of the general points being made, and that they
resulted in fear & futility. Referring to these cases would provide additional depth alongside the NHS
NSS results and arguably more representative of doctors experiences than NSS results.
The quadrant figure is a useful addition to the literature and neatly serves to capture/recap the points
discussed in the paper. The juxtapositioning of the issues on the horizontal and vertical axes is
especially important and useful, and the authors are correct that this is seldom considered within the
healthcare literature and policy. My only slight concern with it is the breadth of the term
‘organisational environment’. For example, the ‘openness-resistance’ dynamic exists at an
organisational level (and is often conceived in this way by e.g. CQC inspection ratings of the ‘well led’
organisation) but the dynamic also, as described well in this paper, exists and varies at different times
and places within the organisation sub-strata, such as on wards, teams and between individuals.
Dr Aled Jones, Cardiff University.

(1) Jones, A., Lankshear, A. J. and Kelly, D. M. 2016. Giving voice to quality and safety matters at
board level: a qualitative study of the experiences of executive nurses working in England and Wales.
International Journal of Nursing Studies.59, pp. 169-176