The contribution "Data sharing practices of medicines-related apps and the mobile
ecosystem" is written with good to medium language quality.
It is concerned with the analysis of mHealth apps concerning the data exchange between
third parties. With this content it is of interest for the journal.
To summarize, the content is novel, of interest for a broader audience but lacks a lot of
details during the explanation part.
Major points:
1) In the abstract some mitigation options are lacking, e.g. that app developers should at
least implement opt-out options
2) Beside of privacy issues, the broad usage of trackers brings in additional security
problems and slows down the app, this should be mentioned more prominently. A recent
article 10.2196/jmir.9818 and other articles also discusses the added security problems with
using trackers
3) The time of app selection (October 2017) and the testing time in February are far apart.
Please discuss the potential issues with this. When do the apps have been downloaded
exactly? Please provide version numbers of tested apps in the tables of the appendix.
4) Page 9, line 54. Why has the app been tested 14 times? How do you ensured that the full
functionality of the app has been covered? How do you progressed with in-app purchases?
5) page 9, line 54, please give a tangible example of one of the 28 different prespecified
types of user data. This part is very fuzzy.
6) The differential analysis on page 10, is very interesting, but the paper lacks discussion on
the results of this analysis.
7) The usage of WHOIS gives information on the company behind the domain, but it gives
no information on the world-wide location of the server. This is especially important with the
European GDPR, as servers outside the jurisdiction of europe are not allowed, or should be
part of privacyshield. The authors should discuss this distinction more prominent and in
more detail.
8) The authors extracted app data before the GDPR was effective and after this date.
Unfortunately the paper does not give results on this topic. Do you find some differences?
Has the app been redownloaded? Please provide version infos for both versions.
9) You made distinctions between first parties and third parties. Please elaborate how you
have done this exactly, e.g. to which group do you assigned first party servers run in the
cloud, e.g. on AWS?
10) Page 12, line 7. How you defined apps containing advertising (is this banner advertises
or also promotions to companies websites)
11) Page 17, line 40-45. Why is the privacy risk low? Security problems might come from
recently found problems of intel processors that might access data from other threads (e.g.
Spectre). This parts needs to be reconsidered and security issues discussed in more detail.
12) Table 4, it would be good to give additionally domain names for the examples
13) Page 20, line 25, please give an example of one family
14) Figure 3 seems to be missing
15) In the figures, facebook is not one of the hubs, in other publications, beside of alphabet,
facebook the other major hub, why is it not in your analysis?
16) Give information, if you found all parties in Crunchbase?
Minor issues:
1) Page 5, line 15, please do not use the statistical term "significant", if no hypothesis test
has been conducted

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Christoph M. Friedrich
Job Title: Professor
Institution: University of Applied Sciences and Arts
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 3
Recommendation:
