Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so, what does it
add? If not, please cite relevant references.
The evaluation of self-help Vestibular Rehabilitation (VR) exercises in general practice is not entirely new
as Yardley et al published a trial in the BMJ in 2012 (2012;344:e2237) which examined the effects of
“booklet based vestibular rehabilitation only” and “booklet based vestibular rehabilitation with
telephone” against “routine medical care” in UK general practice. This trial demonstrated that both
these interventions showed improvement in vertigo symptoms at 12 weeks and at 12 months. Further,
in 2017 the same team (Geraghty et al, Annals of Family Medicine) published an RCT on an Internet
based VR programmes in older people demonstrating effectiveness. This trial by van Vugt et al is
original in that the sample population are people registered with GPs in the Netherlands and rather that
providing only telephone support (as was the case with Yardley et al in BMJ 2012) this study offer more
intensive physiotherapeutic support.

• Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients, teachers, or
policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
The authors have not made a case for the importance of this trial. The current body of knowledge based
on the RCTs mentioned above by Yardley et al and her team clearly demonstrate that self-help is
effective even without additional support. Surely, if this is the case is there a really a need to introduce
guided VR exercise? The addition of a physiotherapeutic intervention as tested in this study undoubtedly
incurs additional costs that are truly unnecessary in light of the existing body of evidence on
effectiveness of unsupported self-help. It is hence difficult to say that the study does not add anything
to our existing knowledge base. This makes the importance of the study research question doubtful.
• Scientific reliability
• Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?
There are several scientific questions that need further clarification as listed below:
1) Page 6 line 51 -56 – the sentence “The research team physician made the distinction between vertigo
and other types of dizziness by following the international consensus of the Barany society”. This need
qualification – what was the exact checklist that the physicians adhered to?

2) The two intervention arms, “unguided internet VR” and “guided internet VR with physiotherapist
support” appear to be standalone arms. There is no mention in the study protocol or the paper that
these were provided over and above “usual care”. If this is indeed the case how did they prevent those
randomised to these arms refrain from accessing GP care? It would hence, seem that in arms 1 and 2
GPs were not asked “to diagnosis cause of dizziness and treat identified disorders according to
guidelines…”. How well was this adhered to in the study ?
3) The study hypotheses are poorly defined. This is more fully described bellowed under comments on
the “research question”
4) There is no clarity in the study protocol or the paper on serious adverse events. How were these
SAEs collected and monitored throughout the duration of the trial ?
5) The inclusion of people with dizziness that was prevalent for at least one month is clearly described in
the study protocol. However, it would appear that the VSS-SF cut off 12 was also used to stratify people
into low and high severity. How did the researchers handle people with VSS-SF scores or 0 or 1 or 2.
Were they excluded? Was there a lower limit of VZZ-SF score considered for inclusion in the study?
6) The sample size estimation is based on a Cohen’s d difference of 0.45 between “unguided VR” and
“usual care”. If this were true it would seem that the study has been powered solely for one hypothesis
and is not for testing “guided VR with physiotherapist support” against “usual care”. Yet the results
section under “primary outcome” seem to assume that both tests are equally important even though the
study is in adequately powered.
7) It is unclear why the researcher opted for a beta=0.2 when most robust RCT now opt for a beta=0.1.
8) The use of per-protocol analysis as described in this paper is flawed, as it fails to account for the
randomisation. Rather the analysis should have adopted the use of “complier average casual effect”.
9) The advantage of a RCT compared with a cohort study is the equal distribution of known and
unknown confounders across the study arms. This should be achieved in most individual adequately
powered randomised trials Thus, the needs to include such a vast range of nine confounders within the
adjusted analysis plan seems odd. The authors must provide a good rationale for the inclusion of each
of the confounders detailed on page 11 in their analysis.

• Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered? Overall design of study - adequate ?
It would have been good if the authors provided a study hypotheses on page 5. Instead, the study
objective on page 5 is not clearly specified. The study hypothesis or hypotheses is/are best presented
with each particular attention to the specification of each component of the PICO. The single objective
on page 5 clearly has two study hypotheses. The first is the based on direct comparison between
“unguided VR” and “usual care” and the second on a comparison between “guided VR with physiotherapy
support” and “usual care”. Yet the sample size estimation fails to address these dual hypotheses and
further the results on page 13 (primary outcome) assumes that the study is adequately powered to
address both the questions. This I think constitutes a major flaw in the study design.
• Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg CONSORT for
randomised trials ? Ethical ?
There are several issues around the methods that need clarification that are already listed above under
“scientific reliability”.
The CONSORT diagram on page 29 needs checking. The numbers in the various boxes do not add up.
These are listed belowL
1) Of the 6502 who were initially contacted 1373 were excluded by the GP for various reasons this would
leave us with 5129 invited to participate and not 5130 as stated in the box
2) Of the 5130 invited there was no response from 3149 and according to the CONSORT diagram 1336
declined to participate (yet the numbers under this heading do not add up to- i.e.
807+182=132=105=29=11=1266)
3) Lastly, the 6 months’ follow up boxes do not account for all those randomised to each arm. Under
“unguided VR”, the 6 months’ number add to 94 and not 98. Likewise, under the guided VR arm the 6
months’ number add to 98 and not 104 and lastly under usual care the 6 months’ numbers add to 110
and not 120.

• Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
There are several issues with the results that are listed above but the lack of data on the raw baseline
scores of the primary and secondary outcomes in the three study arms makes it difficult to get to grips
with the distribution of data. This is not a major issue but the reader would have a better understanding
of the outcome data and the differences between the three arms if these raw data were at hand.
• Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on the data?
Message clear?
The first paragraph should accurately convey the message in the first para of the section tilted
discussion (page 15). Only findings for which the trial is powered and the findings emerging from robust
analysis should be presented. Hence, the first sentence based on my comment above should read, “the
three armed controlled trial provides strong evidence for the effectiveness of online unguided VR in
general practice for patients with chronic vertigo”. Also the statement “In a per protocol analysis that
only included …….” may well reflect what is presented in the paper but as the analytical approach to
non-compliers is flawed it is best to remove this sentence entirely from the document. Lastly, the final
sentence of the first para on page 15 is incorrect and it should read “to conclude in this trial unguided
VR showed significantly better effects than usual care at three and six months on the primary outcome
in interest.” In addition, the strengths and limitation section of the discussion will need to be re-written
to address some of the comments made in this review.
