BMJ-2019-053414
Title: Global, regional, and national burden of neck pain 1990-2017: a systematic analysis
of the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.
The objective of this study was to determine and compare the point prevalence, annual
incidence, and years lived with disability due to neck pain among 195 countries over 27
years (1990-2017).
The authors describe applying a systematic analysis involving searching various data
sources such as online databases, a repository of population data, and claims data.
Disability adjusted life years, years lived with disability, were calculated along with

uncertainty intervals. The authors reported the age-standardized point prevalence overtime
and based on sex, and location. Authors concluded that the highest burden due to neck
pain is present in Norway, Finland, and Denmark.
I have focused this peer review on the perspective of key stakeholder groups for this work,
specifically, patients/people with lived experience (PWLE) as well caregivers of individuals
with neck pain. I hope that the recommendations below can be considered to strengthen
the current manuscript by increasing the relevance and readability for PWLE and improving
the completeness/transparency of reporting.

Major Comments
1. Aspects of this study are difficult for PWLE and caregivers to follow, if the authors could
define all acronyms prior to using them this would be helpful. For example, DW and DALY
have not been defined in the main text.
2. In the “What does this study add” section, this may be a section that is more likely to be
read by PWLE and both YLD and UI have not been defined. These likely would not be terms
PWLE would be familiar with.
3. The introduction is clearly written. The rationale for this study does not include specific
information as to how this work would influence patients, caregivers, or health care related
to neck pain. Perhaps a sentence could be added after “[…] evaluating health systems and
evidence-based decision makings on neck pain across the globe” that is more specific to
how conducting this study would be impactful on PWLE. Would it perhaps be important to
consider regions that have decreased burden to understand the guidelines and
interventions applied in these locations and then apply them in regions that have higher
burden?
4. Registration of research and transparent reporting allows PWLE and other stakeholder
groups to have greater confidence in study findings (in addition to facilitating replication
and follow-up epidemiological studies by researchers). The authors have not described
registering their work or having developed a protocol prior to conducting the work. For
transparency, noting if a protocol was or was not developed prior to this work would be
helpful.
5. BMJ requests that all studies be reported in adherence to the relevant reporting
guideline for their study design which can enhance the usability of work for researchers
and improve the ability to understand research for PWLE and caregivers. Various aspects
that should be reported for observational studies and systematic reviews are absent from
this study, referring to the EQUATOR network website and adhering to a relevant reporting
guideline would help to ensure appropriate reporting of this work.
6. The abstract is generally easy to follow. The conclusion section of the abstract has
addressed aspects relevant to patients, caregivers, and clinicians, however, the discussion
of the paper seems underdeveloped in terms of how this work relates to various
stakeholder groups. ‘Increasing population awareness’ seems like a suboptimal approach to
reducing the burden of neck pain while ‘early diagnosis and treatment’ are not described.
Is early diagnosis when pain is mild? Or within a certain number of weeks of symptom
onset or prior to functional impairment? I would recommend describing a more objective
next step that builds upon the study. Considerations relevant for PWLE and caregivers may
include access to preventative services (and perhaps how these vary between countries),
access and cost of intervention services (e.g., in Canada many individuals do not have
insurance to receive physiotherapy when neck pain does become problematic), and
effectiveness of interventions. Perhaps linking some of these concepts with variations
between regions would be useful.

7. The final sentence of the discussion recommends improving health data for all
musculoskeletal conditions for continuous monitoring. This is reasonable suggestion but
comes with cost and time in clinical settings which are often at capacity for workload. It
would be helpful to clearly link why this increase in data monitoring would be necessary
and how it would help PWLE, caregivers, and health systems. The current paper has
demonstrated important and interesting findings, however, the impact on clinical care is
not overly clear and from a health system perspective/PWLE perspective I would not be
certain that an increased collection of data will result in decreased burden on PWLE or
caregivers (or the health system).
8. BMJ’s commitment to involving patients and the public in their work is commendable. In
future studies, the authors could consider involving patient partners in their work to ensure
it is relevant for key stakeholder groups.
Minor Comments
1) The sentence, “Prevalence increased with age up to the 70-74 age group, then
decreasing.” Should be revised for grammar, perhaps if it read “Prevalence increased with
age up to the 70-74 age group, then decreased” the sentence would be improved.
2) In the methods section, defining what “super-regions” are would be helpful.