Manuscript BMJ-2020-056502 titled "The Ethics of Clinical Research Inside Quarantine" for The BMJ.
It was a pleasure to review this manuscript. From my understanding, this is the thrust of the article:
Quarantine is coercive, particularly when imposed following a government’s failure to pursue less
invasive strategies. Quarantine provides researchers with an ideal setting in which to study the
disease, but the value of this research is in tension with the coercive (unethical) imposition of
quarantine. Therefore, certain ethical conditions must apply: (1) the research must have significant
social and scientific value; and (2) the research must promote the interests of those in or at risk of
quarantine. The author suggests that quarantined populations should have representation on IRBs and

researchers should acknowledge these wrongs with a preamble noting the conditions under which the
research was conducted.
Page 3, Lines 6-8: perhaps update these counts at time of publication.
Page 3, Lines 47-54: To be fair, quarantine is seldom about confining large numbers of healthy
individuals with the ill. Relatedly, given that the population of the Diamond Princess cruise ship was
that of a large village (3,711 passengers and crew), some may perceive its confinement at port more
of a cordon sanitaire. (The extent to which passengers were quarantined within their quarters would
have been at the direction of the ship’s medical officer.)
Page 4, Lines 12-16: perhaps consider incorporating Upshur et al., (2005, Nov). Stand on Guard for
Thee: Ethical considerations in preparedness planning for pandemic influenza. “Section C2: Restricting
liberty in the interest of public health by measures such as quarantine”. The most applicable
substantive values are liberty, protection of public from harm, proportionality, privacy, and
reciprocity.
Page 4, Lines 22-24: An important point! Poorly implemented quarantine encourages the hiding of
cases, as tragically shown during the West Africa Ebola crisis.
Page 5, Lines 17-19: Perhaps consider also mentioning the opportunism for social science research,
including constructivist examinations of quarantine.
Page 6, Lines 26-50: Again, the argument presents the less-common situation whereby large numbers
of people are quarantined together, more akin to cordon sanitaire. Some may argue that most people
will be under “well designed quarantine” (with immediate family members and flatmates). Further,
perhaps the stated risks could discern between those of quarantine (potential close confinement with
an infected person) and those of research (observation, data collection, confidentiality).
Page 8, Lines 26-29: Perhaps consider mentioning that people uninsured and in poverty tend to view
participation in research as a form of “clinical labour” and a way to secure free healthcare (Arsenii
Alenichev & Vinh-Kim Nguyen (2019) Precarity, clinical labour and graduation from Ebola clinical
research in West Africa, Global Bioethics, 30:1, 1-18, DOI: 10.1080/11287462.2019.1566973).
Page 9, Lines 31-40: The examples of concentration camp inmates are extreme. Perhaps the author
would consider a more current or nuanced example, such as ethically problematic research conducted
on confined and vulnerable people within refugee camps (convenient places for health research given
that the population is often static, closely confined, dependent, and with little political oversight).
Page 10, Line 6: “Research was conducted” (not collected).
Two points for reflection:
(1) In the case of COVID-19, it seems important to emphasize more strongly that the underlying
wrong was committed when some governments failed to pursue less invasive strategies such as
systematic testing, contact tracing, and case isolation, as well as ensuring adequate PPE for frontline
workers, from the start of the outbreak (public health neglect and austerity).
(2) Empirical research finds that people tend to view research participation not as an imposition, but
as a liberating factor: an opportunity to draw a benefit from unfortunate circumstances and to
promote the common good.