Thank you for this opportunity. I would like to commend the authors for meticulously
undertaking this research, particularly for employing not so widely used methods and trying

to determine the trends in how different diseases or conditions contributed to changes in
Health Adjusted Life Expectancy (HALE) over the years.
Based on my multiple re-reads of the main elements of this paper, I am of the view that the
type of research being presented is not strictly among the priorities for the BMJ. It is difficult
for me to foresee that the results of this research will significantly change any of these:
"practicing medicine, setting healthcare priorities, or conducting and disseminating
research." After undergoing my own independent review, I have also seen the
comments/reply from a previous round of submission and review.
The claim on the importance of quantifying the contribution of diseases and conditions to
temporal changes in HALE over years, in terms of national health policy formulation is a bit
overstated or overstretched. The reason being 1) the complex nature of health policy
formulation which needs to take into account several inter-related but distinct contextual
factors other than mere summary measures of population health and 2) the limitations
inherent in HALE itself, inter alia self-report bias; and not so clear account on the influence
of co-morbidities and causal pathways ("multiple causation" / "web of causation")
determining not just a disease but the overall disability and quality of life.
The above comments are not to completely deny the utility of this measure or the
methodology adopted, but the relevance in policy formulation is not clear from the way it is
described in the paper. There are other elements in the conclusion too which shows a
mismatch with the stated importance and relevance of this research for the BMJ. For eg.
statements such as this : "we need to pay more attention to disability reduction and healthy
aging"; and "The results suggest that diabetes, medication overuse headache, and
depressive disorders could be the priorities in compression of morbidity".
These comments are given keeping in mind the research article guidelines for the BMJ and
the editorial policies as I understand from the BMJ and its website. However, the article may
merit publication with or without revisions elsewhere depending on those journals'
guidelines.
My best wishes and thanks again.
