On the plus side, this article attempts to present an easier to understand description of Article 31bis
and its limited use to date. However, the article does not present any significant new developments
with respect to Article 31bis and there are several inaccuracies that detract from its value. For
example, on page 2, line 50, authors do not "invent" stories, they "create" them and are ordinarily
entitled thereby to copyright protection, not patent protect which applies to inventions. An example
about books is misleading as an intro to Article 31bis's focus on patents. On page 4, line 19, the
analysis that S.A.'s 1997 Act allowed for compulsory licenses is incorrect. Although industry and the
U.S. government claimed this for a while, it was subsequently confirmed that the challenged language
dealt with parallel importation. The continuing analysis that the withdrawal of cases in S.A. and Brazil
opened the door to global competition is also inaccurate in that Cipla agreed to lower its prices for
generics ARVs in advance of these decisions. The analysis on page 4, lines 45-49, is at least partially
misleading because the current originator prices for currently recommended 1st line regimens is far in
excess of $10,439. On page 5, box 1, is misleading because parallel importation is allowed both with
respect to medicines sold by the patent holder or by others with its permission. (An even more
permissive interpretation of parallel importation allows importation whenever the product was lawfully
produced and sold elsewhere, e.g., Kenyan legislation.) Similarly Box 1, suggests that it might never
be cheaper to parallel import from a country where a patent is in effect, but that is untrue. On page
6, lines 6-7, the authors refer to compulsory licenses having been issued by the Government of Brazil
prior to or contemporaneously with the Doha Declaration. Instead, Brazil had merely threatened to
issue CLs and did not in fact issue one until 2006. Page 6, line 16 should refer to "predominantly" for
domestic supply purposes... . Page 8, lines 4-5, suggests that Article 31bis is more cumbersome that
the Paragraph 6 System, but this is erroneous as the two are essentially identical.
The paper also fails to mention creative solutions to having to issues multiple, quantify specific
licenses, e.g., the one-license recommendation by Richard Elliott. It neglects to mention the impact
of the Medicines Patent Pool on the need for compulsory licenses. More importantly, it barely
mentions the market-size problem of requiring country-by-country, drug-by-drug,
quantity-by-quantity licenses and the need for importing countries to cooperate together to aggregate
a market attractive to generic entrants, though it does refer to an earlier article discussing this need.
Finally, it does not reference the possibility of an Article 30 solution that would be easier to use.

In sum, in its present form and with its current limited content, I would not recommend publishing
this article.