The authors have conducted a randomized trial comparing robotic and laparoscopic ventral
hernia repair. Overall, I find the paper well-written and interesting, and I want to applaud
the authors for undertaking the task of performing this trial.
I have some concerns regarding the study hypothesis and the interpretation of results,
which I have described below.
I have the following specific comments:

Introduction: What was the hypothesis for a decreased length of stay after robotic ventral
hernia repair?
Methods:
The inclusion and exclusion criteria could be more specific. Was this not done prior to the
study initiation?
Authors should specifically describe if patients with both primary and incisional hernias
were included? And if so, why? Some would argue that these are two different patient
populations.
Were preoperative CT scans used for assessment of patients? To assess fascial defects?
The authors should be complemented for the effort to minimize the learning curve bias.
One major issue I have with this paper is that the surgical method used for repair in my
view is not the gold standard for robotic ventral hernia repair. The authors describe an
IPOM repair with lysis of adhesions, suture closure of the fascial defect and mesh
application intraperitoneally, fixation with transfascial sutures and/or tackers using the
double crown technique for laparoscopic and suture fixation of the mesh in the robotic
group. This is propably the most commonly used approach for both approaches repairs,
however, the major upside in robotic ventral hernia repair is that retromuscular repair
including transversus abdominis release is far easier and more often possible compared to
laparoscopic reapirs, and this is probably the reason for improved outcomes in the
retrospective series published to date.
Thus, I wouldn't expect any differences between laparoscopic and robotic repair in the
current trial since the robotic approach essentially does not differ from the laparoscopic the authors are essentially examining two different mesh fixation techniques.
The perioperative pain management and recovery protocol should be described in details in
the paper rather than referred to in another publication, in my view.
What was the range of the variable randomization block sizes?
The outcomes should be described in detail rather than referred to in another publication to
improve the readers' understanding of the trial.
I disagree with the statistical approach. In a randomized setting, I think a simple direct
comparison should be made instead of ie. multivariable regression analysis. I think a
thorough statistical evaluation of this paper is warranted.
Where did the data for the power calculation originate from?
I am unable to find information about ethical approval for this trial?
Results:
Most patients in the trial has relatively small hernias. The major upside in robotic repair
probably is in patients with large hernias. Could this also be part of the reason for
inconclusive results?
The data for primary and secondary outcomes should be given in the text, in my opinion.
In my opinion, the Bayesian analysis does not offer relevant information.
What was the proportion of patients with tack fixation relative to transfascial suturs/both
fixation techniques in the laparoscopic group?
In the patients with hernia defects > 10 cm: How was defect closure obtained? Using
suture only, and without any lateral release?
Discussion:
The difference in inadvertent enterotomies was statistically insignificant and thus is to be
regarded as coincidences, in my view. Thus, I think the paragraph describing the potential
safety issues with robotic repair is not appropriate.
As I see it, the discussion is too short and should include discussion of the different fixation
techniques, including references to papers comparing suture and tacker fixation. I am not
aware of trials comparing intraperitoneal suture to tacker fixation - only trials comparing

transfascial sutures to tackers, and in these, tackers were superior to sutures. Authors
should also comment on this.
Recent studies have emerged describing preperitoneal and retromuscular approaches to
mesh placement in laparoscopic ventral hernia repair. These should also be commented on,
as the trend in some leading centers is to move away from IPOM repair to avoid
intraperitoneal mesh repair.
I can only encourage the authors to continue this very important research, including the
aim to follow the patients in this trial long-term.
The discussion should also include a paragraph about the relatively small hernia size, and
the perception that the upside in robotic ventral hernia repair may be in the larger hernia
defects enabling abdominal wall reconstruction minimally invasive without a laparotomy.
"Unlike robotics, laparoscopic surgery did result in improved clinical outcomes in RCT's":
This sentence in my view is misplaced, since this is the only trial comparing robotic and
laparoscopic ventral hernia repair, however, several trials in other surgical disciplines have
been conducted showing improved outcomes.
In general I get the impression that the authors are sceptical as to the implementation of
robotic ventral hernia repair. While I do not necessarily disagree with the authors, I think
several sentences should be re-written so that the authors' opinions do not stand out so
clearly in order to improve the objectivity of the paper.
The statement the robotics potentially increase the risk of enterotomy is not supported by
the data and should be removed from the conclusion, in my view. Is it possible to conclude
from this trial that larger multicenter trials are needed before widespread use adoption of
robotic ventral hernia repair is adopted? If so, how?