This is a very important RCT in the field, given that no well conducted trial to date has yet
been published that has tried to replicate the findings of the MAST trial (2013) by Albert H et
al from Denmark. That trial's results were very controversial as it reported consistent and
marked benefits across nearly all outcomes from antibiotics (compared to placebo) for
chronic LBP patients with Modic type 1 changes on MRI, potentially representing a paradigm
shift in the understanding of cause and treatment for this subgroup of patients - suggesting
low grade bacterial infection in the spine). Since then several systematic reviews have been
published suggesting there is evidence that low grade bacterial infection could contribute to
low back pain. I am aware of one further small, non-registered but published trial from Iraq
that showed positive results for antibiotics (Al-Falahi MA et al 2014) and two trials in
progress, one in Australia (ACTRN12615000958583) and one in Iran
(ACTRN12613001074785). With the current rising risk of antibiotic resistance caused by
inappropriate use of antibiotics, and the prevalence of chronic low back pain with Modic
changes seen on MRI, further high quality trial evidence is key to inform clinical practice.
This trial from Norway has many strengths, including its size and multi-centred nature,
power to detect between group differences, extent of blinding, efforts to record treatment
compliance and other medication use, the inclusion of patients with Modic type I (thus
replicating the MAST trial) but also type II (to test whether it is Modic I that is the phenotype
that identifies those who benefit from antibiotics). Other strengths are the ITT analyses, per
protocol analysis and assessment of patient blinding. It was prospectively registered and as
far as I can tell adheres well in terms of reporting the clinical outcome data listed in the
registry and protocol paper. The processes of randomisation and allocation concealment are

explained clearly, with appropriate approaches to stratification by modic change type and
previous disc herniation surgery.
Based on their results the authors make a strong conclusion that antibiotics (amoxicillin) did
not provide a clinically important benefit and therefore the authors do not support the use of
antibiotic treatment for chronic LBP and Modic changes.
I can see why they have drawn the above conclusion but I suspect the results may add to
the international controversy rather than remove it. My reasons are:
1. The trial was powered to detect at least a difference of 4 points on the primary outcome
of RMDQ (back pain-related disability, scored from 0 to 24 with 24 maximum disability)
between antibiotic and placebo for each of the two modic change types. The SD was 5,
hence the effect size that the trial was powered to detect was very large (0.8). They justify
this based on the previous MAST trial findings AND a sense that in order to justify
prescribing 100 days of antibiotics for these patients (with the risks associated) the effect
would have to be large. Whilst I understand this, no other treatments are this effective for
chronic LBP yet they are still recommended in guidelines, so this team set the bar very high.
They found statistically significant differences between trial arms for Modic type I for RMDQ
but no evidence of any effect on Modic type II but they do not discuss this. Is it possible that
the addition of Modic type II patients in this trial served to 'dilute' the effect of antibiotic, if
so, would a table in the appendix separately describing the results for those with Modic I
compared to Modic II be useful in directing future research? Given the high power for the
combined analysis (all modic change types together) they did find many statistically
significant between group differences - in their primary outcome analysis of the RMDQ and in
other outcomes (eg. function ODI, leg pain NRS, and health related quality of life EQ5D-5L).
For RMDQ, patients started at about 13 and at 12 months those in the antibiotic group
improved to about 9, versus about 11 in placebo. Whilst the improvement is nowhere near
the dramatic benefit seen in the MAST trial (where patients started at 15 and improved to
5.7 by 12 months in the antibiotic group), the effect size observed between groups is about
0.32, so there is some evidence here that antibiotics might be similarly effective as other
guideline recommended treatments (where effect sizes of 0.3 to 0.4 are typical). This effect
size rises to 0.46 for those with Modic type I changes. In addition, when one compares the
two trials in terms of NNT to achieve at least a 30% reduction in RMDQ (generally but not
universally accepted as a minimally important change in RMDQ) the MAST trial's NNT was 4
(Modic I) and this trial's NNT is reported as 5(for combined Modic type I and II), but for
those with only Modic type I I suspect the NNT would look better? I think the above points
need discussed in this paper.
2. The authors themselves suggest that many patients allocated to the placebo group may
have guessed they were in the placebo group and thus this may, to some extent, explain the
results of the trial. One of the difficult-to-explain findings from the MAST trial was the
unusual lack of ANY response, on average, in the placebo group, although the authors of
that trial justified this on the basis that the patients all had longstanding pain, having tried
and failed several other treatments and therefore were very unlikely to demonstrate a
placebo response. I found that difficult to believe since the interaction alone in that trial (and
the 1.5 hr education session all patients received) in a group of patients still seeking
healthcare for their back pain would normally have been expected to effect some
non-specific effects/placebo response. In this trial patients were recruited from those
referred to participating hospitals (thus seeking healthcare) and those on the spinal surgery
registry who had previous surgery but still had severe pain. There is no mention in the paper
or appendices or CONSORT flow chart of the numbers identified and recruited from each of
these methods of recruitment nor whether the participants in the trial from each recruitment
method were similar - could this information be added? Also, what patient education did
patients receive in this trial in addition to their tablets? How did it compare with the
extensive 1.5 hr of education in the MAST trial? Finally, what previous treatments did
patients have - did this differ, on average, between the groups?

3. Could the authors add a little to the discussion about the key similarities and differences
in their trial versus the MAST trial? Examples of differences include the specific antibiotic
used (in MAST they used co-amoxiclav), the somewhat more severely affected patient
population in MAST (baseline RMDQ was 15 and many more had had previous spinal surgery
- more than 50% in MAST versus only 21% in this trial), the inclusion of Modic type II and
there may be others. Was the sample in this trial more heterogeneous than in MAST? Could
this explain the results?
Minor points:
When was the SAP finalised, before or after the end of data collection? The SAP has a date of
2/11/2018 which seems after the end of the data collection - is that correct?
Could an appendix provide greater detail on the exclusions - the 310 that failed to meet the
criteria, with 174 in the 'other' category.
Could the paper add explanation of where the other measures collected but not reported
here, will be reported? The EQ5D is different between the groups hence the health economic
analyses results will be interesting to see (since antibiotics are rather inexpensive, I suspect
the quality of life difference will drive the economic results) - are they being reported
separately? Also, where are the 12 month MRI scan results being reported?
Reference 16 - the protocol paper journal appears to be missing.