BMJ:059724

Effects of therapies for prophylaxis and treatment of COVID-19: living systematic review and network
meta-analysis.
Stats report:
The current manuscript reports a ‘living NMA’ on interventions for the treatment of COVID-19 patients.
There are a series of reporting issues, as well as potentially some issues regarding the methods/models
used, that need addressing:
- The objectives as described in the Abstract and Introduction have not been met and do not represent
what is reported. The authors have excluded any evidence regarding prophylaxis and treatments that
are no based on pharmaceuticals. This focus appears to me to be adequate (given the complexity of
including other approaches) but will require editing of the WHOLE manuscript (eligibility criteria, flow
chart, results, etc.) so that the objective is actually met.
- The Introduction requires a better justification for the use of NMA to meet the objective. Related to
this, the authors have missed some elements of PRISMA-MA, in particular an adequate description of the
priors used for the analysis, the assessment of model fit (currently they just mention it is fine), and
presenting the evaluation (agreement) between direct and indirect evidence.
- Although PRISMA-MA make some allowances for presenting only summary data, I believe that it is
critical that the actual extracted data (for each outcome and each study) is provided. If anything, this is
likely to be a substantial source of information for anyone interested in this subject.
- The current formatting of Table 1 makes it impossible to read. Please adjust. Data extracted for each
outcome/study, could be included here (see point above). Alternatively, a similar Table with the
extracted data for each study/outcome should be included as Supplementary Material.
- There could be substantial differences between using a placebo arm as control instead of standard
care. Please include a mention of this in your Limitation sub-section.
- The current description of the Information sources is a bit confusing. Suggest you reorganize slightly
as: a) what is the basic methodology for identifying studies (e.g. which sources, from when, how often,
etc.) and b) what was the latest time cut-off included in this version of the manuscript.
- The identification of pre-prints and then final peer-reviewed publications is very useful. If available,
please provide in supplementary material a basic description of differences (if any) between each
(pre-print vs peer reviewed publication) for the extracted data included in the review. Related to this, it
would be particularly important to have this study characteristic used as part of a sensitivity analysis
(i.e. only including peer reviewed data).
- As several reviewers have pointed out, there are some very significant results in this area that have
appear in the last few days (as pre-prints) these will need to be included in this version of the
manuscript.
- Minor consideration: I believe that the remdesivir trial with no control (two arms on remdesivir only)
should be included based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria. If the authors are right and the Living NMA
increases in size, a comparison of the two arms might become relevant (nodes splitting).
- Data synthesis: As the authors point out in the Discussion, there are several results (dichotomous
outcomes) that are indeed highly implausible. It appears to me that something has gone wrong in the
code or in the models themselves. Description of the Statistical models (see note above regarding
information on priors) needs to be more complete. Please provide these as part of the supplementary
material.
- It is important to notice that the results given in Table 2 are NOT, as described in the legend, absolute
risk differences or mean differences. Looking at the supplementary material it is clear to see that they
have included in some of these entries their results for the relative measures (e.g. Mechanical ventilation
for ruxolitinib).
- Table 2 I believe has other errors, in particular the values for the 95%CI for Viral clearance for
novaferon, novaferon+, and remdesivir seem incorrect unless the sign of the point estimate is the wrong
way around. Please check. Still for Table 2, the term ‘Most effective’ is misleading, suggest you change
to “Beneficial” for symmetry with “Harmful”.
- With regards to the actual results in Table 2 and presented as supplementary material, many of these
values are completely outside all meaningful/valid measures. I looked in detail at a couple of the
included studies:

o Lou Y, Liu L, Qiu Y. Clinical Outcomes and Plasma Concentrations of Baloxavir Marboxil and Favipiravir
in COVID-19 Patients: an Exploratory Randomized, Controlled Trial. medRxiv
2020:2020.04.29.20085761. doi: 10.1101/2020.04.29.20085761
And
o Cao Y, Wei J, Zou L, et al. Ruxolitinib in treatment of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19): A
multicenter, single-blind, randomized controlled trial. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 2020
doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2020.05.019
As these are the only trials that provide information regarding Baloxavir Marboxil or Ruxolitinib as
treatments, their studies should be the basis for what the NME gives as estimates.
Lou reports no deaths in any arm which means that the OR for Baloxavir Marboxil should be 1 (with wide
Confidence limits, around 0.02 to 55.3) or if no adjustment is used, then this estimate cannot be
calculated. In the manuscripts supplementary material, the ‘Relative effect point estimate (OR) provided
is 145465.98 (CI: 0 to 1.74E+19). For the outcome of Mechanical Ventilation (same trial), the authors
report a single event in the Baloxavir Marboxil arm (and none in the other arms). This translates to an
OR of 3.1 (95%CI 0.12 to 91.6), the reported OR for the NMA model is: 1750669729 (CI: 1.71 to
1.79E26).
Even if there is no transcription error and the methods used give this result, clearly this is completely
inconsistent with the evidence. Same applies to calculations made for data obtained for Ruxolitinib
(Cao, Wei, Zou et al.). If the models are working and this is not a coding issue, this points towards
priors that are severely informative and biased. This is why it is critical to report the basic data as well
as the direct comparisons. These need to be presented next to the results from the NME. Given the
above, I have no confidence on the indirect comparisons presented (at least for several of the relative
measures).
- I have also serious misgivings about the multiple indirect comparisons reported. Given the sparcity of
the data and the current performance of the model, I would recommend the authors first check those
comparisons for which a direct estimate can be obtained before reporting the rest.
- Related to the above, please provide information (actual estimates) regarding the coherence of the
indirect estimates of effect. Also provide direct and indirect estimates (where available) together for
comparison. All of these would be fine as supplementary material
- The phrase in the Summary measures subsection “…used the mean difference (MD) and its 95%CI
when the outcomes were not expected to vary importantly across subpopulations”, needs clarification.
The current statement makes this appear as completely subjective. What was the process followed to
decide if the trial outcomes should be pooled or not using MD? The use of RoM as an outcome requires
just a statement explaining why this was used (probably due to expected high skeweness of data).
- For network figures, please provide some indication on the number of studies that the lines/circles
represent.
- In the Methods, describe the Subgroup analyses planned. In the Results please then explain that these
were not carried out due to data limitations. Related to this issue, sensitivity analyses between pre-print
and peer-reviewed would be particularly useful (see point above). Lack of trial registration is another
important issue that should be explored based on sensitivity analyses.
- It is unclear to me why the Abstract conclusions, highlight hydroxychloroquine? There are two others
treatments (e.g. lopinavir-ritonavir, interferon beta-1a ) that appear to have similar adverse events
profiles (at least based on current estimates).
- Finally, impact of direct funding from pharmaceutical company needs to be somehow taken into
consideration as there is substantial evidence of potential for bias. The simplest approach would be to do
this as part of a sensitivity analysis (see point above).
