The abstract is clear and summarises accurately the content of the paper.
The authors clearly define their primary research objectives and the study design is
appropriate for addressing these. However, the definition of one of their secondary research
objectives – validating the hypothesis of ‘registration bias’, is not readily apparent to the lay
reader, specifically how this differs from publication bias.
As the BMJ is a clinical journal and the clinical applicability of selective registration bias may
not be immediately apparent to the readership. The authors could consider making this
explicit.
This study is larger and more comprehensive in scope than similar previous studies. Its topic
is interesting and relevant to clinicians, but the authors could consider making this relevance
clearer and suggesting how exactly it could or should influence clinicians.
The methods are clear and would be repeatable from the information given. Figure 2 is very
clear and particularly helpful in understanding the protocol. The authors report they followed
the PRISMA statement for the identification, screening and inclusion of search results which
is good, though this is not a systematic review or meta-analysis.
No ethical issues and as this is a form of secondary research this is not applicable..
The search terms used for identifying trials are included in figure 1. They are appropriate for
identifying RCTs with a reasonable specificity, however, the search terms are unlikely to
encompass all RCTs on Pubmed in 2018. Many RCTs do not contain the words randomised or
trial in their titles. This is an understandable search given the size and scope of this paper
but should be included in the limitations and the authors should consider not stating that all
RCTs on Pubmed were included.
It seems possible that there may be an interaction between ICMJE membership and impact
factor, the authors could comment upon this.
In Table 2 the binary logistic regression results appear to have returned an error for the
conditions (reporting odds ratio confidence intervals of 0-1000 for all conditions). The
authors should review this.
The manuscript is detailed but very long. The results tables span multiple pages and the
authors should consider whether some of this data could be moved to the appendices. Many
of the results are repeated in the discussion and the authors could consider reducing this to
reduce the overall length of the manuscript.

As the BMJ is a clinical journal, in the discussion the authors could consider focussing on
making clear the clinical applicability of their results to medical practitioners.
The practical implications of adding a grace period to be considered prospective are not
clear. Will this simply increase the number of trials considered to be registered prospectively
without changing behaviour?
The authors may wish to consider making explicit the links between their research results
and the recommendations they are making.
The references appear up-to-date and appropriate. However, 94 references is a large
number for a primary research article, the authors could consider reducing the number and
focussing on the most relevant references.
The topic of discussion may be more suited to a specialist journal.
The editor needs to obtain expert statistical guidance regarding the statistical methods.
The paper needs substantial revision to address some of the points raised above.
