Statistical Report
The authors now more clearly report the methods which they have followed in producing
this report. It clearly has been a substantial project and the authors should be
congratulated on their work.
However, it is now clear that the reported findings largely depend on the model which has
been fitted to the data, particularly for the countries and regions where data are sparse or

absent. The structure of the model (in terms of the grouping of countries into regions and
regions in super regions) will have had a strong influence on the reported results which
needs consideration and discussion. It is also important to be clear as to what results are
supported by observed data, and which are extrapolations – currently all results are
presented as being equally valid, which is not the case.
1. Whilst the use of the hierarchical model is appropriate, the interpretation of results
needs to be made with care. As was raised in the previous comments, there are concerns
that the level of extrapolation that is being used by the model where data are missing for
particular countries, regions or super-regions is inadequately acknowledged by the authors,
and is not suitably flagged to a reader. I would expect to read more about the impact of
the degree of extrapolation in the limitations section of the discussion.
2. The pattern of missing data is very uneven, with some regions and super regions having
far fewer (if any) studies contributing to estimates than others. Where no data are
available, my understanding is that the model estimates will entirely be based on
“borrowed evidence” from higher levels in the model, such that the average region value is
used for the country estimate when there is no country specific data, that the average
super region value is used for countries when there are no data within a region, and that
the global average is used when there are no data from within a super region. Looking at
the results, particularly in the Figures, the data for the regions is presented is the same
way regardless of whether it is based largely on data observed in the countries, or by
“borrowing” from other regions. I believe that it is very important for readers to be able to
distinguish observed results from extrapolated results. Could the authors look to augment
the evidence presented in the Figures with a summary of the amount of the evidence is
based on observed studies and how much is from borrowing strength? I do not know what
graphical device or statistic could be used, but it is really important to indicate the real
data from the extrapolated data, and the level at which the extrapolation is made.
The authors also need to be clear that the region and super region estimates where data
are sparse are limited in that they are the values based on the small number of studies of
studies in the same grouping. It is important that the reader is not mislead into thinking
that they are based on regional or super regional level studies.
3. I cannot get all the figures in the text to match with those in the tables. For example
Page 10 includes the statement:
“Psoriasis occurred more frequently in adults than in children. In children, the prevalence
of psoriasis varied between 0.02% (0.01% to 0.04%) in East Asia table states to 0.22%
(0.06% to 0.81%) in Australasia and 0.21% (0.11% to 0.41%) in Western Europe (Figure
1)”
Several of the figures here do not agree with those in eTable 7. For example, the estimate
of East Asia is 0.03 (0.01 to 0.09). Is there an explanation or are these errors? Similarly
I cannot locate all the figures in the next statement:
“In adults, the disease varied between 0.14% (0.05% to 0.40%) in East Asia to 1.99%
(0.64% to 6.60%) in Australasia. Other regions with an occurrence of the diseases above
1% were Western Europe 1.92% (1.07% to 3.46%); Central Europe 1.83% (0.62% to
5.32%); high-income North America 1.50% (0.63% to 3.60%); high-income
Southern-Latin America 1.10% (0.36% to 2.96%); Figure 2.”
4. There are also issues in the text concerning being clear where the reported values are
from observed data and where it is based on extrapolation from the model. For example,
in the statement immediately above, I do not believe that there were any studies in
Southern-Latin America which contributed data, so this is an extrapolated value, whereas

other examples are generated from the data. It would be helpful to have some way of
separating out the observed data results from those which are based upon the model.
5. The regions and super regions are not described in the main paper at the moment.
When I found them in the additional document I was rather surprised by their structure, as
they are largely based around income brackets and appear to vary between the different
population groups and do not fit with geography as I recalled it (e.g. Argentina being
classified as a North American country in eTable 8). It is very important for this structure
to be described as it determines the way in which estimates for missing data are made and
the rationale for this grouping to be explained and justfied. It will have by itself created
the income related pattern that has been commented on by others. If a different structure
were used, estimates for countries with no data will change according to the observations
of other countries within the super region and region. The dependence of the findings
upon both the categorisation of countries into regions and super regions definitely requires
greater discussion and acknowledgement as a limitation in the discussion.
6. I have also observed some discrepancies between the tables in the Appendix. For
example, eTable 3 lists the countries which provide data on prevalence in children. There
are no datasets listed here from sub-Saharan African countries. However, in eTable 7
there is a report that data are available for Tanzania which contradicts this eTable 3.
