This multi-centre RCT appears to have been well-carried and, on the whole, suitably
analysed.

There are just some issues relating to the description of the methodology, the analysis, and
the presentation of results that need to be addressed.

1. The sample size justification relating to a standardised difference of 0.5, is provided in the
protocol (ie based on data from a previous study where a clinically important difference of
10% with an SD of 20% was observed), but not in the text. It would be more appropriate to
add this to the paper.

2. The analyses of the data are said to include, “Multivariable linear regression…adjusting for
stratification variables and pre-defined prognostic variables” (Page 11). What were the
pre-defined prognostic variables and how were they selected? Furthermore, the main results
of the analysis (Table 2) relate to an adjustment for age category and study site
(stratification variables) only. Was an analysis carried out which adjusted for prognostic
variables? If so, what were the results?

3. One of the sensitivity analyses used was CACE (Page 11 and supplementary Table S2).
Readers may not be very familiar with this type of compliance analysis, and hence it is
helpful that there is a description of this analysis in the paper. However, the description
might be improved by stating that CACE compares the average outcome of compliers in the
treatment group to the average outcome of POTENTIAL treatment compliers in the placebo
group. In addition, given this is the ‘main’ sensitivity analysis, I think it would be appropriate
to state the actual results in the text of the paper.

4. One of the other sensitivity analyses mentioned in the supplementary file is the ‘two-part
model’. It would be useful to have a clearer explanation of this analysis, as the brief
description given on Page 4 of the supplementary material is not sufficient.

5. Table 1. A number of baseline measures are presented here, but some of them appear to
follow a highly non-Normal distribution (eg patient-specific functional score). Hence it may
be more appropriate to present median and range values for these measures rather than
mean and sd. Also, did their non-Normality impact on the Normality assumptions required
for the linear regression analysis?
