This paper reports some interesting and important findings from a meta-analysis of trials of
SGLT2 inhibitors in populations with type 1 diabetes.
There are a few methodological items which need to be clarified as well as some general
presentation issues which need addressing.
Major concerns:
1.
My biggest concern it that only 42 papers (reported in abstract, though 52 papers
in the flow chart in Figure 1) were identified from searching three databases, clinical trials
registries and meeting abstracts. This seems unfeasibly low. I repeated the Medline search
strategy and identified more than 150 papers. Please clarify in the flow chart how many
papers were identified in each of the databases and reasons for exclusion.
2.
Although there are only 6 studies included, in the analyses there are up to 9
comparisons. This needs to be reported in the text. How were the placebo groups treated
in the multiple arm studies? From examination of the numbers in the forest plots it seems
that placebo group may have been double counted across every analysis which included
studies with multiple arms. If this is the case then sample size of the placebo group needs
to be split between the two intervention groups.

3.
Unclear labelling of forest plots. For example Forest plot Figure 4A showing odds
for severe hypoglycaemia is only labelled sotagliflozin or control and it is unclear which
shows a benefit. This could be much more clearly presented by labelling as “less
hypoglycaemia with sotagliflozin” and “more hypoglycaemia with sotagliflozin” or similar.
Likewise Figure 4B “Favours control” suggests that control leads to a lower rate of
hypoglycaemic events, but this is not how it is reported in the text. This unclear labelling
applies to all the plots throughout this paper including the supplementary data.
4.
A list of pre-specified subgroups were given in the methods, but I cannot see any
results for these. Please report these results.
5.
The authors have chosen to report odds ratio, yet consistently refer to the
reduction in risk when reporting outcomes. The terminology needs correcting throughout
the paper.
6.
Discussion. Page 17 of 61: “Among safety concerns, DKA was the most common
clinically relevant AE, occurring in 3.1% of sotagliflozin-treated patients” Please clarify
where the 3.1% came from. I cannot find this reported in the results.
7.
The authors report carrying out sensitivity analyses removing one study at a time.
This approach is methodologically dubious unless there is a clear rationale for removing a
study from the analysis. I cannot see any results from sensitivity analyses in the paper.
8.
Body weight is reported as % change. It would be preferable to report this as
change from baseline in kg. If these data are not available then please report mean weight
at baseline.
9.
The methods consists of a section describing how missing data was dealt with. Did
any studies have missing data? If so which ones and which approaches were used and
what were results from sensitivity analyses?
10.
Suggestion: There appear to be 3 trials included in the analysis which compared
200mg and 400mg sotagliflozin treatment. The authors could examine their main
outcomes by directly comparing high dose to low dose arms within these head-to-head
trials. This would be a more robust approach to examining the effect of dose.

Other concerns
11.
Please clarify whether a protocol was published or registered prior to commencing
this work.
12.
The methods section needs to clearly state the intervention and comparators
which were considered eligible for inclusion.
13.
Abbreviations: T1D and T1DM are used interchangeably. I suggest T1DM is used
as this is more common abbreviation and in the Abbreviations section after the abstract
TID is defined as daily total insulin.
14.
The I-squared statistic is reported as I2, I<sup>2</sup> and I<sub>2</sub>. Be
consistent with reporting this. It should be I<sup>2</sup>
15.
There are a lot of abbreviations in general, most of which are unnecessary. I
suggest that abbreviations are kept to a minimum.
16.
I would suggest that the authors re-order the results section to report the main
findings first and move the kappa score on reviewer agreement further down the results
section.

17.
The paper needs to be carefully proof read to improve readability and punctuation.
For example, the last sentence on page 17 of 61 extending to page 18 needs to be divided
into two or more shorter sentences.
18.

The paper would benefit from restructuring to make it easier to read.

Jennifer Hirst
University of Oxford
