General Impression
This analysis is an extension of an article published very recently by the authors in the
British Journal of Clinical Practice, both publications being based upon data from the Irish
Longitudinal Study on Ageing. In essence it is a criticism of the gradual relaxation of
criteria for the use of statins in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease
advocated in successive European guidelines between 1987, the year the first statin was
licensed in the USA, and 2016. The article questions whether the ever- increasing
expenditure on statins is cost effective and suggests that their risks outweigh their
benefits in primary prevention. This view may be biased by the Irish population they
surveyed, which consisted largely of females over the age of 50. They make no mention of
the proven value of statins in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in high risk
individuals, for example those with familial hypercholesterolaemia (see Versmissen et al,
BMJ, 2008) nor do they refer to the role of the nocebo effect in explaining what they
describe as the non-specific side effects of statins (see Tobert and Newman, J Clin Lipidol,
2016). Another issue that needs to be elaborated upon is the huge reduction recently in
the price of statins, the basic cost to the NHS of a year’s treatment ranging from £8-32 for
atorvastatin 10 mg daily to £33 for rosuvastatin 40 mg daily (Regional Drug and
Therapeutics Centre, January 2019).
Specific issues
P1, para 2: It should be acknowledged that the female bias among statin users in Ireland
would lead to underestimation of the overall efficacy of statins in primary prevention of
cardiovascular disease in the general population (Cangemi et al, Pharm Res, 2017).
para 4: Cite which European guidelines the authors are referring to. Was lovastatin
licensed in Ireland in 1987?
P5, para 1: What does “low value care” mean? Regarding the need for better prediction of
clinical outcomes, the authors should mention the cost efficacy of coronary calcium scoring
in determining eligibility for statin therapy (Greenland et al, J Am Coll Cardiol, 2018).
Gilbert Thompson
