Rolnick and colleagues provide a revision of their manuscript that evaluates whether
long-term hospital participation in the Bundled Payments for Care Improvement program
was associated with changes in 90-day mortality and spending for common medical
conditions. Their “top-line” findings now differ, primarily because they find that the way CMS
attributes episodes and outcomes to BPCI Advanced hospitals may introduce bias against
these hospitals. They now find that BPCI participation was associated with a reduction in
overall spending, driven primarily by a reduction in SNF spending that was only partially
offset by an increase in home health care spending. In addition, they no longer find an
increase readmissions among BPCI participants.
I appreciate the reviewers addressing several of my comment/suggestions. They now, in
their appendix, highlight that reductions in overall spending observed in their main analysis
are still evident among the subgroup of hospitals that remained in BPCI throughout the
study period (given the high drop-out rate). Their results also remain robust in a sensitivity
analysis that compares non-BPCI hospitals (from BPCI markets) to BPCI hospitals.
The authors observation that their findings are sensitive to using CMS’s approach to
reconciling overlapping episodes (via “precedence rules”) vs. the authors own approach to
attributing these episodes is critically important. This issue – to my knowledge – has not
been noted in the literature, and one has to wonder how many prior BPCI evaluations turn
on this methodologic difference. I think that it’s really important that the authors write a
corresponding BMJ blog piece with their manuscript, that focuses entirely on this important
issue.
Minor comment:
Appendix Figure 5: The COPD forest plot appears incorrect. The point estimates and
confidence interval for total episode spending is -1.8 (-3.1 to -0.5), however this does not
appear to reflect what is shown in the forest plot. This is true for many of the data points in
this figure (SNF care, for which the point estimate for the difference in the forest plot is
positive, but the text estimate provided is negative).
