Dear Editor and Authors
I have read manuscript "Comparison of 14 popular dietary programs for weight and
cardiovascular risk reduction in adults: A systematic review and network meta-analysis of
randomized trials".
It is a highly relevant piece of scientific work. Overall, it is well conducted and well written.
Still, I have these comments:
1) Abstract. objective. As a weight change research nerd it strikes me that there's no T
(time) in the research question. This is not a mistake or a fault, but still a rather important
parameter as almost any weight loss method is efficient in short term studies, where as
none are efficient in the long run.
** We highlight the difference between 6 and 12 months findings in the results section of
the abstract – they are, of course, consistent with the reviewer’s comment.
RKR: ok
2) Abstract. conclusion. It is concluded that: These results demonstrate that modest weight
loss can result in important improvement in cardiovascular risk factors, particularly in blood
pressure but provide little ...
I don't think you can actually conclude this based on the available data. You conclude that
the weight loss results in improvement of CV risk factors, but you don't know if it is the
weight loss that causes the change in risk factors. Diet in itself may well (and does) affect
the risk factors (as you refer to in the introduction). The weight change likely also
contribute to the change in risk factors but there is no data supporting this in the
manuscript. What can be concluded is that the diets results in temporary weight loss and in
temporary improved risk factors but provide little ....
Also I think it is an overstatement to call it "important" improvements in risk factors, as we
don't know if the changes have any importance at all. To my knowledge the best evidence
suggest that dietary based changes in risk factors does not reduce morbidity or mortality.
Also the fact that most changes are not detectable after 12 months, point to that the
changes may not be so important.
** We agree with you. We have revised the manuscript throughout to address these
points.
RKR: The conclusion in the abstract now states, “Moderate certainty evidence shows that
any macronutrient diet, over 6 months, results in small weight reductions and impressive
cardiovascular risk reduction, particularly on blood pressure. The effects on weight
decrease at 12 months, and cardiovascular effects largely disappear.”
The data and the results does still not support the wording “… impressive cardiovascular
risk reduction”. I guess it is a matter of taste whether the word ‘impressive’ should be
used, but the reduction in question is not at reduction in cardiovascular risk, but an
improvement in cardiovascular risk factors, which is rather essential. The present study did
not measure cardiovascular outcomes. The Cochrane review on lifestyle induced weight
loss in subjects with hypertension and morbidity/mortality, points to that diet related
improvements in blood pressure does not affect the incidence of CVD events or mortality.
The same can be said about the sentence “…, and cardiovascular effects largely disappear”.
Again it would be more accurate to phrase it “… and improvements in cardiovascular risk
factors largely disappear”.
In the Conclusion of the long manuscript, it is still stated that the diets result in
“important” reductions in blood pressure. See my comments regarding this from the first
review comment.
3) P 6. L 37-39. Same comments as for the research question in the abstract. Furthermore,
the term "cardiovascular risk" is used. It is more accurate to call it "cardiovascular risk
factors" (the study does not evaluate cv morbidity).

** We agree and we have now revised to say “cardiovascular risk factors”.
RKR: The last bit of the Introduction now states “We therefore performed a systematic
review and NMA of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) for weight and cardiovascular risk
reduction…”
This was not what you did. You did not examine reductions in cardiovarcular risk. You
examined improvements in cardiovascular risk factors, which is different.
4) P 7. L 26-32. It is not clear to me how is the effect modification with exercise and
behavioural support carried out. Wouldn't adjustment with multivariable models result in
indirect evidence? Then how can any results in the manuscript be direct evidence? Please
explain better how direct evidence is obtained in comparing diets with different exercise
components.
** This is a good question. We used multivariable network meta-regression models to
adjust for both exercise and behaviour support. The principle is that effects proved similar
in studies that included exercise and behavioural support in comparison to studies that did
not. In other words, neither exercise no behavioural support proved to be effect modifiers.
This is what we report; it doesn’t seem to us that the concept of direct or indirect is
germane to effect modification.
RKR: ok
L 35. The wording makes me understand that the control group only get (or don't get)
exercise 'advice' where as the dietary programs (L 28) have (or don't have) exercise
programs (strength training, walking). This is probably not correct, or is it? I'm a bit
confused here.
** To clarify, we included diets that provided structured advice on macronutrient, food or
caloric intake. Eligible diets may or may not have provided specific advice on exercise or
behavioral support. To further clarify, we have revised as follows:
“We included dietary programs with structured advice for daily macronutrient, food or
caloric intake for a defined period (≥3 months). Eligible diets may or may not have
provided exercise (e.g., walking, strength training) or behavioral support (e.g., counseling,
online or in-person group support), and could include meal replacement products, but had
to consist primarily of whole foods. Trials providing pharmacological agents were
ineligible.”.
RKR: ok
5) Results. It surprises me that harms are not even mentioned. Were any harms reported.
were harms like stigmata reported at all?
** Previously, we did not address adverse events because studies have often failed to
report them. When reported, adverse events related to diets were reported differently
across studies, making comparability across studies challenging. We have now summarised
the harms at the end of results section.
RKR: ok
6) 12-months results. In my taste to little emphasis is put on the more important long
term results at 12 months compared with the longer explanation of the 6-months results. I
think the negative results after 12 months is far the most important result for the public,
physicians, dieticians and the scientific community.
** The reviewer has an excellent point that studies that continue for more than one year
may provide unique insights. For better or worse, we decided at the outset to consider only
studies up to a year, aware that less available evidence would lead to more uncertainty
(lower quality evidence). This already happened with studies at one year versus 6 months.
The problem would be worse in – we anticipate – the few studies with longer term
follow-up. Moreover, as BMJ editors have kindly acknowledged, there was already a lot of

work to revise with respect to the other valuable points. We would like to suggest that a
focus on studies with follow-up substantially more than one year could be the focus of
another paper.
RKR: ? I think the authors misunderstood my comment. What I meant was, that more
emphasis should be put on the 12-month results, which I think the authors have done in
the revised manuscript. So, that is ok. However, I still miss some reflections about the
clinical perspective in the discussion. Does diets really result in important and impressive
improvements in cardiovascular risk factors?
7) strength and weaknesses
I suggest you comment on selection bias. Who are the participants? 79% women, but what
women and men? Can the results be extrapolated to other obese or overweight individuals,
or do you think that the participants where more prone to accept the interventions than
obese and overweight individuals in the general population?
** Our previous JAMA review has demonstrated similar results to full-analysis after
adjusting for the proportion of women. Given this finding, we did not conduct the relevant
analyses. Although this was a potential limitation, we considered this as a very minor
limitation and we did not mention this in the limitation section. However, if the reviewer or
the editorial team would like a sensitivity analysis on gender, we are happy to add.
RKR: I’m not only talking about the proportion of female participants, but more importantly
about non-participation. It is not crucial to me, since the selection problem in relation to
generalizability is rather obvious. But, if I was author I would discuss the generalizability of
the results.
8) P15. L 44. effective or ineffective? With your results in mind I suggest you comment on
the effectiveness.
** The revised manuscript now has additional explanations of our results in the Discussion
section.
RKR: ok
9) Conclusion.
It is stated that: "our results suggest that even modest weight loss can result in potentially
important reductions in blood pressure". As mentioned above I don't think this statement is
supported by the data/results, and I think it is an overstatement to call the reductions
"important".
"Individuals who are able to maintain weight loss over long periods of time may experience
important reductions in cardiovascular risk". I also think that this not supported by the
results/data.
** We agree and have now removed these statements in the revised version.
RKR: ok. However, the reductions are still labeled as ‘important’. In the abstract, the
authors have rephrased ‘important’ to ‘impressive’. Perhaps the authors should decide
whether they regard the results as important, impressive or both. I suggest a less loaded
term like for instance ‘substantial’.
Kind Regards
Rasmus Køster-Rasmussen