The article "Global Mental Health is Critical to Universal Health Coverage" (Manuscript
ID BMJ.2018.044685) presents an analysis of the integration of mental health in the

universal health coverage. The authors make extremely useful and sound suggestions
on how primary health care could be re-engineered to include mental health and how
this approach could be used to shape the health care system for other chronic
conditions.
The topic is of high importance and relevance to clinicians, policy-makers and service
users. On the one side, the achievement of universal health coverage (including mental
health) for all is now part of the ambitious targets set by the Sustainable Development
Goals. On the other side, while the burden of mental disorders is high and expected to
increase over the next decade, the availability of quality treatment for mental health
service users is extremely limited. The authors offer some reflections not only on how
to bridge this gap and help meeting the target of universal health coverage for all, but
also on how the approach used for mental health could be applied to other chronic
conditions. This latter suggestion is extremely interesting considering the rise in chronic
conditions worldwide and the current political focus on a global response to
non-communicable diseases, as shown by the recent establishment of a WHO
Independent High-level Commission on non-communicable diseases and the Third
United Nations High-level Meeting on non-communicable diseases planned for
September 2018.
The article covers the topic well using the best available evidence to support the
arguments, including both peer-reviewed papers and policy reports.
The authors made their case well using reasoned arguments supported by the
evidence.
Under ‘Collaborative care’ the authors may consider stressing the importance of
coordination not only within the health care sectors but also with other sectors required
to address the needs of people with chronic conditions (e.g. education, social care…).
It would be good to bring additional attention to the ‘5C approach’ summarising the five
key elements in a box.
