BMJ Review 8th August 2018
Delanyo Dovlo
Universal Health Coverage: The Evidence on Incentives for physicians [working title]
This is an interesting and purposeful editorial looking at a complex issue even in
High Income countries which become even more difficult in low income settings
where the basic levels of motivation whether intrinsic or otherwise, may be
undermined by several other basic factors. What does one do when income is well
below the basic needs?
The paper makes a good case on various factors affecting motivation (goes beyond
physicians I think - as the LMIC examples in particular don’t relate to physicians as
such,)

The motivation factors discussed in the paper have a number of other influences
that need to be considered to understand how intrinsic and extrinsic motivators can
be leveraged to become useful.
For example - what is the role of issues like work environment (MSH has done some
work on work climate and environment and staff motivation, including effect of clean
nice spaces, water availability etc)) , staff supervision systems, monitoring and
management? Extrinsic and intrinsic motivators on their own can be readily
undermined by certain environmental and contextual factors in my opinion.
The capacity of physicians and heath workers to perform well goes beyond having
knowledge and skills, which requires certain work environment factors and enablers
to be effectively applied. The section discussing “"report cards” does begin to
address these issues somewhat, but will need further examination as the
environmental issues appears to be the most important factors (even accepted in
paper at the end), not the need improving intrinsic and extrinsic factors only.
Financial incentives on their own are moving goalposts, with people never really
satisfied especially in situations where possibilities exist to earn more in greener
pastures elsewhere or with the private sector etc.,. Even good financial incentives
shall require the input of other factors to be effective. The Ugandan examples cited
indicate that these inputs have to be carefully selected and shaped to make an
impact. The sustainability of an impact is not always secured.
The important factor that leverages effectiveness of reputational risk, is the likely
consequences, and reputational shame is unlikely to be sustained if the
consequences are not clearly part of the equation. The issue of consequences for
poor practice is not discussed
The authors make a very good point about public reporting and transparency, but
again, what are the consequences? Secondly, what effect will an uninformed (low
literacy ) public in an LMIC have without effective analyses and understanding of the
reports and how to use these to improve quality. (It is well noting that quality can
mean quite different things to professionals and to clients, with quite different
measurements used. Public reporting is likely to be very dependent on the culture
and environment (eg in my experience, if a district has been without a doctor for
some years, they are likely to find a recently posted doctor better than none)
I liked the discussion around whether intrinsic motivators come from nature (innate)
or are nurtured. Do people enter the professions for reasons of intrinsic or extrinsic
motivators, and are they therefore likely to be receptive to intrinsic stimulants?
Especially in situations of low salaries and fluid labour market dynamics including
high unemployment that may end up attracting a different type of connected
employees who are not innately motivated The examples given seem rather
experimental and unlikely to scale up successfully.
The Swedish example shows peer arranged controls to be crucial. However, we also
need to understand what wider governance and compliance environment contributes
to this. For example, will physician motivators work in an environment where all
other sectors don’t follow good quality and governance procedures? An enabling
environment requires that the health sector is not the only expected to reform
successfully,
I suspect the mutually exclusive discussion and analysis of intrinsic and extrinsic
motivators is part of the problem of such studies, as it is likely that a combination of
the 2 types and the factors creating an enabling environment and context may
provide better insights into motivational and incentives success.

The examples provided are mainly from high income countries and perhaps may
miss other capacity issues. For example, in LICs in particular, a sector having the
capacity and systems to "modify environmental cues" or create and measure effects
of "subtle nudges" in motivation is unlikely with heavy management workload and
poor support capacity.
The Discussion does a good job of raising the issues of the context, transferability of
interventions, sustainability and the effect of a broader environment as well as
cultures but this is done mostly in passing without adequate clarification of impact in
my opinion. "Failures of governance and corruption" get a mention but i think this is
perhaps the most fundamental challenge to LMIC motivation systems
While I agree that much more research needs to be focused on these contextual
factors, the article can become more useful beyond a dialogue on intrinsic and
extrinsic factors if the authors could advise on what and how these contextual
elements could be assessed in line with the two motivational aspects and a
description of any existing examples will also be helpful to give a new informative
element to the paper.
The point on utilizing new technologies is an excellent one and some examples of
these may have been published and could be referenced and discussed.
Another aspect of improving utility of the editorial will be to consider proposing
frameworks or elements to be considered for assessing and measuring the likely
influences on and the impact of motivational interventions. As it is currently, the
article misses an opportunity to be more useful to actual policy makers and
supervisors in LMICs. The advice to utilize behavioural economics etc is somewhat
vague and could be better elaborated.
I would suggest a fairly significant revision to improve scope and utility as suggested
before acceptance
