This is an important, well-conducted paper that sets out to examine the observed pattern
of increasing post-discharge HF mortality in recent years. This issue has received
increasing attention and is highly policy-relevant.
The authors find that the increase in mortality is concentrated among patients who were
not seen in any acute-care setting following discharge (ED, obs, readmit), which is both an
important finding and a concerning one. From a policy standpoint, this represents a crucial
step in understanding what to make of the rising HF mortality that has been documented in
multiple venues - the finding that the increased mortality is NOT among patients who have
returned to the ED is really an important one. The finding certainly helps place concerns
about the HRRP in context.
The methods seem reasonable; I am not a methodologist but the authors have extensive
experience in this area and follow a standard approach here.
If the data are available, it would be very helpful to determine whether the patients who
died without any acute care visits were, as the authors postulate, receiving any kind of
hospice or end-of-life care. Outpatient claims might suggest whether these patients had
contact with primary care or specialty care; post-acute claims might help us understand
whether they were primarily patients who were discharged home following the initial event,
or whether they were more often patients who were in skilled nursing facilities or being
cared for by home health agencies.

Do the authors have any suggestions as to how we might proceed? It is interesting and
important that the deceased patients had higher levels of indicators of debility or frailty;
this could suggest that targeted interventions might focus on this group, and ensuring that
they have adequate follow-up. Alternatively, this may be a group where aggressive care is
inappropriate, and the patterns the authors identify might reflect a broader shift towards
less aggressive care. What are the next steps for clinical leaders and policymakers seeking
to understand these patterns? Should hospital performance measures include individuals
on hospice or receiving palliative care?