This study is a well-conducted large register-based cohort study using two different
approaches in relation to selecting the comparison groups, as both a cohort of siblings and
a cohort of birth-year- and sex-matched controls were examined in relation to the exposed
group with stress. The study is well argued, designed, analysed and written.
The exposure was based on hospital discharge diagnosis within posttraumatic stress
disorders, acute stress reaction or adjustment disorder and the cohorts were followed for
incident cases of cardiovascular diseases, likewise based on hospital discharge or death
certificates. Adjustment and analyses of interactions were conducted based on
register-based information.

The study shows a higher hazard rate ratio for CVD among those exposed to stress-related
disorders, higher within the first 6-12 months and with stronger associations with CVD
before the age of 50.
Major comments:
Both in the summary box, the introduction and in the supplementary files, the focus is on
posttraumatic stress disorder, which is clinically different from acute stress and adjustment
disorders. This is to some extent explained, as PTSD has been subject to most research,
but it would, in my opinion, be relevant to discuss this further or to change the focus of the
text and handle all three types of stress equally. This is also relating to the introduction,
stating that most individuals will be exposed to psychological trauma or life events, and
clinically this may not necessarily be in the form of stress examined in the study. A more
thorough discussion on the type of stress (leading to hospitalization) in comparison to
”stressful life events” could be included.
As the clinical entities have changed over the years it is somewhat surprising that
stratification on calendar time yields the same results. This could be discussed further, as it
may imply potential bias in the study.
As is rightly discussed, most patients suffering from stress are not hospitalized and will
thus not be entering the study, but is treated in general practice. The conditions leading to
hospitalization could be the more grave ones, and this could be discussed further,
especially as the implications of the study would lead to suggestions to focus on the
prevention of CVD. This may be only the more severe ones.
The study finds a long-term (up to 25 years) elevated risk of CVD with an HR of 1.2-1.4.
This is somewhat surprising, I think, as stress should wear off if the biological cause is
related to an increased workload for the heart (p. 14), and the consistent risk could be the
result of residual confounding or unaccounted bias; this could also be discussed in more
details.
Minor comments:
The abstract (p. 3-4) gives results from the sibling-controlled study as is also implicated on
p. 4, l. 5. The abstract might be reformulated in order to balance the results
The term ”16 individual CVDs” is used in the summary box (p. 5) and elsewhere in the
manuscript. It covers diagnoses and thus not necessarily different conditions, and I would
suggest rephrasing the term.
table 1: the total number of participants (p. 22, l. 11) in both columns below
population-matched cohort seems to be ten times too high.
Several entries should have the ”n (%)” explanation given, eventually just in the heading
as a general description and then ”…unless otherwise stated”.
Supplementary files, figure on p. 39. In the legend on p. 40, no explanation of the red line
at HR=1 is given. Is the red line necessary?
Henrik Bøggild
Associate professor, MD
Public Health and Epidemiology
Health and Science Technology
Aalborg University
