MAJOR COMMENTS
This is an important trial that sets up to replicate the Albert trial that concluded that
antibiotics were a highly effective treatment for a sub-type of chronic LBP associated with
Modic changes. At the time the Albert trial created great controversy because the theory
underlying the treatment represented an entirely new way of viewing chronic LBP and the
results achieved were much larger than typically seen with treatments for chronic LBP.

The current trial was prospectively registered and the manuscript closely follows the protocol
and statistical analysis plan. The trial was well conducted and has excellent follow-up for the
primary outcome. The analysis and reporting are both excellent and I only have a minor
concern re reporting of treatment compliance which I will cover below. My one major
concern is that I am not convinced that the interpretation of the trial result is appropriate.
Table 2 shows favourable treatment effects on 5 of the 6 outcomes (including the primary
outcome) at 12 months follow-up. The trial also shows larger treatment effects in the
subgroup with Modic type I changes (a pre-specified sub-group analysis with biological
plausibility). Yet the authors conclude that the treatment should not be used. I do not think
it is anywhere near as clear cut as this. The authors dismiss the effect on the primary
outcome as too small to be clinically worthwhile; but the context is that there are few other
options for this subset of patients, and I think that needs to be borne in mind. The effect is
also larger than the effect in the UK BEAM (Back Exercise And Manipulation) trial published
in the BMJ in 2004. The BEAM authors took a different approach and rather than saying the
treatments should not be used, they noted the small to moderate effect sizes. Both
treatments are endorsed in the current NICE guideline for LBP.
I would encourage the authors to reconsider their portrayal of the result and rather than
advocate that the treatment should not be used, take a more nuanced approach. It would be
reasonable to note that the treatment is effective but it typically has modest effects that are
somewhat larger in the subgroup with Modic type I changes. This is a perfect scenario where
shared decision making could be used so that an appropriately informed patient could decide
if the likely benefit is worth the likely harms and inconvenience.
Another perspective on judging if this treatment is worthwhile would be consideration of an
economic evaluation. I note that this was planned but not included. A 3 month course of
antibiotics is quite cheap compared to some of the other alternate treatments offered for
chronic LBP e.g a pain management program would cost many thousands of dollars, spinal
fusion is even more expensive. Having this economic evaluation as a companion paper would
really aid interpretation of this important trial. I would prefer what was done previously with
the UK BEAM trial with two papers published at the same time in BMJ.
I acknowledge that my suggestion to revise the discussion and include the economic
evaluation as a companion paper may disappoint the authors but I really think that this
would be a far better outcome and the set of papers would have a much greater impact.
MINOR COMMENT
COMPLIANCE: It is unclear how treatment compliance was measured and Figure 1 provides
inadequate information to judge the number of patients who complied with 13 week
regimen. Please provide more detail here.
