Title: Non-linear associations of fat and carbohydrate intake with cardiovascular disease and
mortality
Review comments:
The focus of the paper is to investigate the shape of relationships between macronutrient
intake and all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease incidence using Cox proportional
models with penalized cubic splines. The topic of research is interesting and is relevant to
current discussions of nutritional recommendations/guidelines and policy actions. However,
reporting bias is inevitable due to self-reported dietary information and other important
covariates such as physical activity. Moreover, 96% of the study participants were white.
Thus, the validity of the results, generalizability and public health implications are uncertain,
and the findings should be interpreted with caution.
Detailed comments for consideration:
Abstract
1) Page 2, line 34: the reported study size (502,536) in UK Biobank differs from the number
reported in the methods section (page 5, line 94).
2) line 41: report the number of fatal, non-fatal CVD events.

3) lines 44-46: authors have reported the direction of associations between macronutrients
and mortality risk, but quantifying the risk (ie., HR and 95% CI) for the given intake range
would be helpful.
Introduction
1) The abbreviation SACN should mentioned in page 3, line 64.
2) Page 3, line 69: “intake of saturated fats lowers the number of CVD events” – what are
the CVD events?
3) Page 4, 79: “replacement of carbohydrate with plant protein and fat was associated with
lower mortality” – is it total fat or its subtype (SFA, MUFA or PUFA)?
Methods and Results
1) Page 5, lines 100-102: Is deprivation index an indicator of socio-economic status? What is
the rationale for including this index as one of the potential confounders? Provide a brief
note on the calculation of this index.
2) Page 5, lines 102-103: Self-reported physical activity over the previous 24 hours was
used in this study. It is not clear why the physical activity “over previous 24 hours” instead
of “regular physical activity or over a month/a few months/year” was considered? How did
the study authors ensure that the “one day” physical activity is representative of study
participants’ regular schedule?
3) Page 5, line 106: height square – superscript
4) Page 5, lines 110-113: authors should indicate whether they assessed a single-day diet
recall, weekday or weekend diet intake, etc.
5) Were questionnaires regarding lifestyle variables also administered at different time
points during follow-up? Were there any notable changes in terms of dietary intake and
other lifestyle variables? There should a brief note on the ascertainment of smoking status
(never, ex-or current smokers, pack years, etc), alcohol intake (g/d or categories including
teetotaler, mild, moderate, or severe), etc.
6) Page 6, lines 125-127: number mismatch for implausible values of total energy intake
(n=7,896 in the methods section; while n=15,365 in the results section).
7) Page 7, line 152: it will be useful to report the median of each exposure variable (in table
1).
8) There is no mention of exclusion of prevalent cases of CVD. Moreover, participants with
diabetes are more likely to change their dietary intake and the study findings suggested that
“participants with baseline diabetes were less likely to have high carbohydrate intake”.
Perhaps, sensitivity analysis with the exclusion of participants with diabetes (~4% of the
study sample) can be conducted to examine the associations between carbs and study
outcomes. Please clarify whether the reverse causality was accounted for in the main or
sensitivity analysis.
9) Page 7, line 158. provide a note on mental health disorders in the covariate assessment
section. What were the mental disorders and how were they assessed?
10) Page 7, line 165: report “n” in each category.
11) Page 7, 166: If BMI is a potential mediator, then the associations must be examined via
stratified analysis, and not by simply adjusting for BMI category in the multivariable models.
12) Page 8, line 176. It is not clear why authors have mentioned Model 4, indeed there were
no such nested models reported in the manuscript.
13) Did the authors consider sex-specific quintiles for nutrient intake as differences in
dietary intake are more likely between men and women?
14) Page 9, lines 205-214: It will be useful to have HR and associated 95% CI for these
specific categories of nutrient intake.
15) What are the major food sources of macronutrients in this study populations?
Assessment of sugar intake was restricted to dietary sugar (ie., naturally occurring sugar).
Thus, findings from the isocaloric replacement of sugar intake (ie., replacing SFA with sugar,
or replacing sugar with other nutrients) should be interpreted with caution.
16) Page 10, lines 222-223: mention the direction of association with all-cause mortality and
incident CVD.

17) Is there a specific reason for not including dietary fibre in the isocaloric replacement
analyses?
Discussion
1) Page 11, lines 244-249: sentence oddities (especially line 245 and line 248) and
re-ordering the fat subtypes, for example, “saturated fats, and mono-and poly-unsaturated
fats”.
2) Page 11-12, lines 269-273. It will be useful to present the results of different models in
the supplementary material.
3) Page 12, line 271. “inclusion of additional confounders changed the relationship into a
J-shaped curve” – what were the additional confounders?
4) Food source notably modifies the association between carbohydrate intake and clinical
outcomes. For example, whole grain foods are associated with lower risk of T2DM and IHD,
while refined carbohydrates are associated with higher risk of these diseases. Hence, it is
important to distinguish between “good” and “bad” carbs.
