Olavarria et al. report the results of a multicenter blinded randomized controlled trial
comparing robotic versus laparoscopic ventral hernia repair. Primary outcome are the days
in hospital during a 90 days follow-up period. The study is well planned and conduced.
Strengths include the wide inclusion criteria, limitation of the surgery to few skilled
surgeons and standardized techniques. Some concerns need to be addressed.
- Primary end point: The choice of hospital stay in a system in which most patients are
discharged the same day will make it very difficult to identify differences. Why did the
authors not choose a more sensitive parameters such as hours in hospital. The authors
need to state the rationale for the choice in more detail. Furthermore, it is not clear on
what assumptions or preliminary data the sample size calculation is based.
- A weaknesses is the differences in surgical technique with different fixations of the mesh.
Thus, per se such differences may alone dictate different outcomes, irrespective of the
approach. The authors need to discuss the different fixation techniques, indicate the
rationale to use these based on current literature. How are the days in hospital defined? Is
a day in hospital a stay of >24 h or a stay overnight? Otherwise, it remains unclear how
more than 75% of patients in both group stayed 0 days in hospital. Please specify.
- Hernia size: Recurrence rate significantly depends on the size of hernia and the length of
the initial incision. Therefor the authors should indicate: the length of the incision of the
previous surgery and if the entire length of the initial incision was covered with mesh.
Furthermore, the authors should list the full results for the three strata of hernia width
separately including operative time and complications. The authors also should indicate if
there were differences of the results (complications) between primary ventral hernia and
incisional hernia.
- Operative time: The operative time may depend to a large extent of the type of fixation.
Running sutures as used in the robot group are likely to take much longer than stapling or
transfascial sutures. Can the authors estimate the impact of fixation on operative time?
- The authors considered a learning curve of 50 cases per institution. They should indicate
the learning curve per surgeon.
- Mesh type: differences between coated meshes may differ significantly. Therefore, the
authors should indicate what types of meshes were implanted.
- The median follow-up is only 6.4 months, which is too short to evaluate the secondary
outcomes hernia recurrence, reoperation and quality of life.

- Fig. 1 & P2/L50: Six patients with changed surgical plan have been excluded from the
study. Nevertheless the authors state, that the outcomes were analyzed as
intention–to-treat. Please comment.
- Pain: discuss that there is no difference despite the use of absorbable and not transfascial
sutures in the robotic group.
- Secondary outcome parameters: How did the authors define seroma, surgical site
infection. Just giving a reference is not enough.
- Costs: Discuss why recurrent hernia were associated with less costs than incisional
- Recurrence: it is very important that long-term results of this study will be published as
there may the risk that after robotic surgery the incidence of recurrence is increased
because of the use of absorbable sutures to fix the mesh.
- Bayesian approach: The authors should indicate the full calculation and include the Priors.
