This article addresses a very important question: That the current vaccine
pharmacovigilance methods lack mechanisms to capture complex and hard to
diagnose illnesses that occur after vaccinations and may be caused by the vaccine.
In fact, it addresses a much broader question: That when new drugs are brought to
the market, there is a very sophisticated and well thought out system in place
through Phase I, II and III trials to capture toxicity, frequent side-effects - and
effects. But the phase IV trials - or post-marketing surveillance systems - that are
supposed to pick up rare, but serious side-effects are very rarely followed up in the
same rigorous way by health authorities, and most often left to the drug company as
highlighted in this article. The problems with this way of doing things, are obvious.
An article about this topic by a knowledgeable author like this would be very
valuable for the BMJ readership, in my opinion, and serve as an important
contribution to a discussion we need to have. I think all the important science,
observations and reflections are in place here, but my suggestion would be to
reorganize the article to make it easier for the general reader of BMJ (practising
physicians) to understand how this article is important for their own practice. As it is
right now, the article probably speaks very well to readers who already know the
pharmacovigilance systems.
This is not the case for most practising physicians. It is also a risk that reader will
think this is really an article about HPV-vaccination (an important question in itself,
but not the main topic here).
My suggestion would be to reorganize the article in this way - for example:

- Start with one of the many examples were a very promising drug turned out to
have serious side-effects when rolled-out in the general patient population, and how
long it took to understand the cause-effect.
- Continue with a (short) description of how the system actually is set up and
functions
- Use the HPV vaccine as an example (everything that is in the article already)
- Discuss the shortcomings of the current system, and make suggestions about how
these shortcomings may be adressed (already in the article.
I would be happy to review a revision of this article.