This manuscript confirms the relationship between overall longitudinally measured HbA1c
and microvascular complications by analyzing data from a large Swedish registry . The
approach which is the interesting aspect of this report is to try to assess and validate the
HbA1c targets provided by different groups Although this is clearly discussed, it is difficult
to glean this goal from the abstract, methods and results sections . The authors state that
a strength is the fact that data was collected from close to diagnosis. However, they do
don't capitalize on this by e.g. assessment of prediction of complicationsby first 5 years
duration compared to later HbA1c.
Unfortunately the results section is difficult to follow and the tables are not always clear
e.g it is often difficult to discern the comparators.
Specific points
1 Abstract needs clarifications---mean age when?? what was the duration of T1D . It
could be reworked related to recommended targets
2 what does this paper add to what was known in from the DCCT and EDIC (recent
publications)
3 was there overlap of subjects in the 2 registries?

4 What was the completeness of data entry especially for thos entered close to 5 years
duration (line 34)
5 The inclusion of the sane patient multiple time seems to include a bias to me . Also, is
there enough power to assess the small number of clinical events in the more severe
complications. A statistician opinion would be helpful
6 From data presented it is difficult to assess overall T1D duration
7 Is age of onset a predictive factor? The first sentence in the relation to age para graph
needs clarification --odds ratio compared to what?
8 What were the methods for assessment of albuminuria and retinopathy?
9 how were other causes of albuminuria excuded--especially in those with low HbA1c?
10 can refs 23 and 24 be replaced by human studies ? It seems unclear that there is good
evidence regarding the importance of glyaemic variations --this needs to be properly
explored
11 The paragraph on macrovascular complications can be omitted as these are not
included here
12 First sentence of conclusion---no difference than what?
13 Table 1 would be more helpful if groups without complications were included
14 legend for table 2 needs to be expanded --OR compared to????
15 Table 3--what is SWK? Without details of differences between the 3 grpups, perhaps
only the last group should be shown
16 Suppl fig 1 needs a legend as does tabl1 with statistics added
