This study has its strengths in large sample size and rich information included. The
research question is also with social and public health significance. Nonetheless, it is a pity
that I do not see much improvement in this revision, neither in data presentation or
interpretation nor in logical and persuasive discussion of key findings.
Some issues identified in previous reviewing process had not been properly addressed,
including:
1. Information on the reliability and validity of used database is still absent in the
manuscript.
2. Regarding page 8 lines 21-24: At page 4 lines 26-7, the authors claimed that one of the
aims of the study is to test “the effect of child psychopathology on the association between
parental mental illness and injuries”, so that the analysis on this should be included as

main results, rather than listed as supplementary analysis. Similarly, the results should be
presented in the results section of the paper.
Page 3 line 20: “…16%had serious mental illness” is a significant mistake in citing. The
original reference reported that “A total of 2.7 million parents (3.8%) had a SMI in the past
year…”, see
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1047279716305208?via%3Dihub
Page 9 lines 8-13: have these differences been statically tested? If so, provided specific
values of t, chi-square and P.
While recognising the massive work of the authors on data analysis and organisation and
the complexity to present such informative data, I recommend the authors considering
better illustration of key results. The currents tables and supplements are not really for
future readers of the paper.
Description of results should be more concise, exact and better structured.
For example:
1. At page 11 lines 1-5: the violence rates increased with age in the non-CAPRI group, not
both groups.
2. At page 13 lines 1-2: Both the crude and adjusted RRs suggested higher risk of injury
among CAPRI, not just crude RR.
3. Page 13 lines 5-6 “The increase in the rate of injuries was higher for….” Should be “The
increase in the RISK of injuries”
4. Page 17 lines 1-11: in the Table 4, the following information should be presented:
1) Increased RR of almost all types of injuries among CAPRI, particularly for ages 0-5.
2) The high RR of injuries related to violence among both parents, which also deserves a
more detailed discussion as one of the key and novel findings of this study, both for
intervention and further research. It is inadequate to just say “no information”.
The English writing of the manuscript needs further improvement. A certain number of
sentences are confusing and should be rephrased for clarity. Here are some examples:
Page 3 lines 22-23: “…we estimated the prevalence of Children and Adolescents with
PaRental mental Illness (CAPRI …by adolescents”. The meaning is not clear.
Page 3 lines 29-32: “For professionals working in families with parental mental illness, …
children. [6,7]”
Page 4 lines 9-10: “another small study…” should be “another study of a small sample size
(n=?)”
Page 7 line 14: “(including also children…” should be “(also including children…?”
Page 11 line 6:” Overall, the most common causes of violence-related injuries overall were
assault…”
Page 21 lines 13-14: “This is the largest contemporary study to date of preventable injuries
in children exposed to the growing problem of maternal and paternal common and serious
mental illness”
Page 21 lines 12-27: the prevalence of injures among CAPRI and non-CAPRI can be
influenced by many other factors, so it is the ARR, rather than the data of prevalence, to
show the effect of paternal mental illness on childhood injuries. Therefore, the discussion of
key findings of this study should primarily focus on aRR. For example, the text that “We
report an increase in the rate of injuries in CAPRI starting from birth and extending
throughout childhood into adolescence”, should it be “increased risk of injuries”, not “the
rate of injuries”???
Page 21, the part of “Comparison with previous studies”: the limitation of previous studies
had been mentioned in the introduction, so such information in this part is repeating and
unnecessary. Instead, the similarities and difference of findings should be highlighted in
this part.

Additional Questions:
<b><em>The BMJ</em> uses compulsory open peer review. Your name and institution
will be included with your comments when they are sent to the authors. If the manuscript
is accepted, your review, name and institution will be published alongside the article.</b>

If this manuscript is rejected from <em>The BMJ</em>, it may be transferred to another
BMJ journal along with your reviewer comments. If the article is selected for publication in
another BMJ journal, depending on the editorial policy of the journal your review may also
be published. You will be contacted for your permission before this happens.

For more information, please see our <a
href="https://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-reviewers" target="_blank">peer
review terms and conditions</a>.

<b>Please confirm that you understand and consent to the above terms and
conditions.</b>: I consent to the publication of this review
Please enter your name: Shurong Lu
Job Title: Senior epidemiologist
Institution: Jiangsu Province CDC
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?:
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:

