The authors have improved the presentation of the paper following my comments. There remain some
further issues concerning the analysis, presentation and interpretation.
1. Table 2 gives the diabetes prevalence results in four columns: total, self-reported, newly diagnosed
and diagnosed on extended information, where total is the sum of self-reported and newly diagnosed. A
proportion of those self-reporting will have been wrong in their reporting, and in others their symptoms
will have eased since diagnosis. So the current prevalence of diabetes in this group will be exaggerated.
Should this not be adjusted for? For example what proportion of self-reporting subjects had an FPG
<126 mg/dL? I do understand that without the 2-hour PG the self-report group cannot be diagnosed
using the ADA guidelines.
Related to this, the fourth diabetes column is not mentioned at all in the Results, and its derivation is
unclear, yet it looks to be based on extra information. The prevalences are slightly less than the total
prevalences, so it is important to explain how the two are related.
2. Table 3 summarises rates of treatment, awareness and control of diabetes, with denominators of
respectively 9772, 4464 and 2792. Which cells of Table 2 do these numbers come from?
3. Overweight is defined on page 14 as BMI 25.0 to 29.9. But this is not strictly correct as BMI 29.95 is
also overweight. I suggest you define it as in the tables, overweight 25 to <30 and obesity ≥30.
4. The first main paragraph of Results gives lots of prevalence rates and confidence intervals. The text is
hard to read with the CIs, and they are in the table, so there is no need to repeat them in the text. The
same applies to the last paragraph on page 19.
5. The annual percentage change (APC) across surveys is mentioned on page 19, but the way it is
calculated should be given in the Methods.
6. The Limitations section refers to an HbA1c cut-off of 6.4, yet it is ≥ 6.5 in the Methods.
7. Non-resident internal migrant workers are mentioned on line 588 - roughly what proportion of the
population are they?
8. The Conclusion on page 28 is that "diabetes is still an important public health problem in China". I
would go further - it is an increasingly important health problem.

9. On page 24 BMI is given in units of km/m2 rather than kg/m2 (twice), and "ethic group" should be
"ethnic group" (twice). On page 26 line 562 "weigh" should be "weight".
10. There is a Figure Legend for Figure 1 on page 31 but I did not see the corresponding figure. Also
Supplementary Figure 3 is not cited anywhere.
11. Previously I asked for prevalence rates to be given to one decimal place. This has been done except
for lines 130 and 449.
Tim Cole
