I was interested in reading this paper coming, as it does from two eminent economists. However, I
found it to be rather lacking in a public health perspective.
In their description of attempts to conceptualise wellbeing, they acknowledge the complexity of the
problem. “Life satisfaction”, as they suggest is an emergent property of a complex system involving
many different drivers including some influences which cannot be measured. In 2011, the BMJ
suggested that an important aspect of wellbeing was “the ability to adapt and self manage”. The
salutogenesis literature contains about 25 major theories on the creation of wellbeing. Most of them
have the idea of internal locus of control and sense of purpose as important aspects of wellbeing.
Treating wellbeing as a quantifiable commodity that can be measured and costed seems highly
dubious.
Their second point discusses whether an economy of wellbeing will influence public investment
processes. Inevitably, their discussion involves costs per QUALY. I think they are absolutely correct in
their comment that there are many aspects of society which influence “life satisfaction” which are not
or cannot be measured. Therefore, the idea of a conventional approach to the economic analysis of
the impact of wellbeing on wider society is not feasible. Their final section is correct in suggesting that
enhanced wellbeing may lead to reductions in health spend. People who feel in control of their lives
and have a sense of purpose are more likely to make fewer demands on health care because they feel
well.
Overall, this paper is correct in suggesting that developing economic policy based on wellbeing will
have uncertain consequences for health investment. However, they do not seem to have grasped that
the countries involved in WEAll, the Wellbeing Economy Alliance, already understand that. in Scotland,

a founder member of WEAll, the focus is on achieving inclusive growth. A concept similar to the idea
of democratic growth as described by the Democracy Collaborative based in Washington DC. By
supporting people to feel more in control of their lives, inclusive growth will have a positive effect on
their sense of wellbeing and may reduce use of health services. This paper, as currently written,
reads like a criticism of the wellbeing economy approach. I think they have misunderstood it. It would
be a pity if the perceived criticism were to discourage other countries from investigating it.
