• Are the questions the paper addresses relevant and important to patients and/or carers? Yes - this is
highly relevant to patients
• Are there topics or issues that are missing, or need to be highlighted more?
I'm not sure how many 'lay' people will be reading this article, but I wonder if a sentence in the abstract
needs to be re-worded to be clearer - "the reduction in COVID-19 incidence was comparable with and
without public transport closure when the other four interventions were implemented" - I'm not sure
whether the incidence being comparable, means that the incidence was the same whether public
transport closures happened or not - so public transport closures made no difference to the incidence? I
really understood what you meant in the conclusion of the abstract - it is clearly explained here. Also,
another sentence in the abstract - "compared with delayed implementation after school and workplace
closure" - do you mean compared with delayed implementation OF school and workplace closure? I think
it is very important that the abstract can be widely understood because if lay people do pick up this
article - they will most likely read the abstract for an easy to digest summary.
• Is the treatment or intervention suggested or guidance given something which patients/carers can
readily take up? or does it present challenges?
Yes - this provides clear data on the degree of success of social distancing measures and the importance
of adhering to them to 'flatten the curve'.
However, what is not clear to the public is how comparable this data is on social distancing to other
measures - such as face masks. If social distancing has reduced the incidence by 13% how does this
compare to other interventions (like face masks)? The interventions are listed, but comparisons are not
provided. It may not be possible to state this yet if figures are not available?
• Are the outcomes described/measured in the study important to patients/carers? Are there others that
should have been considered?
Yes - the outcomes are highly relevant
• Do you have any suggestions that might help the author(s) strengthen their paper and make it more
useful for doctors to share and discuss with patients/ carers?
1. the changes to the abstract that I have suggested
2. perhaps a little more reference to psychological literature - early implementation of preventing public
gatherings and 'lockdown' are the most effective, but for healthcare staff to encourage their patients to
adhere/comply to this guidance perhaps it would help for them to be able to offer evidence based
strategies to 'cope' with this. Perhaps there will be 'lock-down fatigue' at a future point in time. If
doctors could say - 'this is the evidence that lockdown is effective - and here are evidence based
suggestions on how we can cope with this together' - perhaps the information might be more 'well -

received'? The article probably only needs a few references in the discussion to show that this has been
thought about?
• Do you think the level of patient/carer involvement in the study could have been improved? If there
was none do you have ideas on how they might have done so?
I don't think patient involvement is needed to produce a paper of this kind. However, there will be merit
in un-picking/un-ravelling patients response to this document. We are talking about behaviour change
and restrictions on how people live their lives, so providing an obvious channel for the public to respond
to this document could be helpful to explain how academics/scientists/policy makers can foster better
relationships with patients and the public to carry forward recommendations into practice.