This is a very interesting and timely paper.
I suggest some minor re-work on the following issues:
The paper introduces the analysis as “This paper explores the human rights and legal
dimensions of self-initiated interventions (SIIs) for sexual and reproductive health (SRH)”.
However, when the conceptual framework is discussed, it states “WHO has recognized
some human rights to be particularly and specifically implicated in the promotion and
protection of sexual and reproductive health and rights”. It is unclear to the reader why
the paper works with a framework of human rights but limited to ‘human rights as
understood by the WHO’. From a methodological point of view, the paper needs to clarify
(i) the rationale to choose to use that particular set of human rights and not others (the
obvious addition would for the right to benefit from scientific progress), (ii) the reasons
why they choose to work with WHO’s understanding of human rights (which has been
fairly criticized).
The paper can be improved by engaging a bit further with the international human rights
law framework. For example, the authoritative interpretation of the scope and content of
states’ (and other entities’) obligations on SRHR done by the CESCR Committee in General
Comment 22 will enhance the analysis and would also help clarify the conceptual
framework. This allows for a clear identification of who is the right holder, who is the duty
bearer and exactly what is each actor obliged to respect/protect/fulfil and or entitled to.
The use of the two examples is very interesting and allows the reader to grasp in concrete
terms what this means in terms of access and effective enjoyment.
There are various statements that need referencing (i.e. “There

are some dangers associated with hormone injections for this purpose, particularly
“overstimulation” leading to complications, including death”).
The paper claims that “The health system is still an integral part of SII interventions”. It is
unclear to the reader whether this is the authors’ opinion on the facts or a normative
statement. Furthermore, when discussing the potentially harmful impact of SII, the paper
refers to “self-testing for HIV without access to pre- and post-test counselling”. I think it’s
important that this is either problematized or evidence is presented to support such claims
(especially when the paper claims “an SII may often need more, not less, support from
the health system”). For example, SMA in the ‘accompaniment’ model has challenged
models of care that rely on health systems and has successfully implement pre/post
counselling outside the system (especially in settings where the health system routinely
displays paternalistic or condemnatory attitudes).
Some editing is needed to make the language uniform (“trans people”, “transgendered”,
“transgender” and “SRH” and “SRHR” for example [it is unclear why the R is left in and on
throughout the paper]).
