Rachel Denholm
Overview
This systematic review of indices of multimorbidity is a comprehensive piece of work that
consolidates information on methods of measuring multimorbidity in the literature, with an
emphasis on the inclusion of mental health conditions. Particular strengths of the paper,
which make this a valuable resource for researchers, include detailed tables containing
information on the purpose, index components and information required for each of the
indices and subsequent updates.
As addressed in the paper, this is not the first systematic review of methods for measuring
multimorbidity, but is timely given the large number of recent studies and interest in
measures of multimorbidity clusters. It is novel in its focus on mental health conditions.
The inclusion of a guide to selecting an appropriate measure of multimorbidity for a study
is a useful tool for researchers.
Overall, the research question is clearly defined, although the extent to which indices were
compared and evaluated in the manuscript is limited. For example, multiple methods were
used to investigate 1- and 5-year mortality, and I feel the authors could have compared
the different approaches. The paper is a useful resource for researchers, consolidating
available measure of multimorbidity in one manuscript, but I think the evaluation of the
different methods (qualitatively and potentially quantitively) could have been more
detailed.
Specific Comments
I thought the paper read well, with the methods used well developed and extensive and
the results clearly presented.
I would like clarification as to why indices developed in populations with specific conditions
were included in the study, but those developed for hospitalised/institutionalised patients
excluded, given the latter aren’t generalizable to the general population, either?
Minor Comments
Page 9, line 17: Link to Figure broken
Table 2, line 31: Sub-heading missing a word
Table 5: It would be helpful if the papers were listed in date order, as in the previous
tables
