This analysis paper discusses the data sources available to examine trends in violence and specifically
knife crime in England and Wales - specifically, that recorded crime data are too poor to assess trends
and whether media reporting may even contribute to increased violence. As a ‘data nerd’ I found the
discussion of quality of crime data fascinating and I think this could be expanded as this was the
strongest part of the paper. I have a few specific comments which I hope will improve the paper:
1) My main concern is regarding your conclusions drawn from the available hospital data on knife crime,
which for all of England do show an increase in admissions, albeit from a historically low level in 2014.
You show data for all of England when you discuss trends but in the conclusion you mention that
homicides (rates?) have increased in London. On which data you base this conclusion? I think you should
either present regional trends in hospital and mortality data (which would be very interesting indeed) in
which case you can make inferences about London, or state that these data are not available (if this is
the case). In which case I would have thought publication by NHS D and ONS of these data should be
prioritised – otherwise interventions to reduce violence cannot be targeted or assessed for their
effectiveness.

2) Ideally the mortality and admission rates should also be age and sex adjusted, a point which you
don’t mention (but I think you should). Can you present both crude and adjusted rates?
3) In relation to point 1) above, mortality may be a poor indicator of incidence of violence, since death
rates may be decreasing due to improved treatment for severe injuries. A further challenge in England &
Wales with recording of violent deaths is that there are substantial delay between occurrence and
registration when deaths are referred to coroners (See
https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/methodologi
es/impactofregistrationdelaysonmortalitystatistics2016). Since ONS publish mortality data by date of
registration, the number of *registered* homicides in a particular year may reflect deaths occurring
several years previously. In addition, changing hospital thresholds over time may explain changes in
admission rates, although very severe injuries that require intensive care and/or an operation would still
require an admission. I think all these points would be worth mentioning when you discuss the quality of
these data sources.
4) I found the section on recorded crime extremely useful and I think it could be expanded. For
example, I would have liked to see plotted not just the ratio of police recorded violence to CSEW
reported incidents but the actual rates or recorded and reported crime. Perhaps this can be added to
Figure 2? I think it would also be very important to report how much of the increase in recorded violent
crime since 2012 can be attributed to different types of crime, eg is most of the increase due to better
reporting of domestic violence and stalking/harassment, or has there also been increases in recorded
knife crime? Could you present the ratio of recorded:reported violent crime broken down by type?
5) In box 1, you mention that HES includes admissions, outpatient appointments and A&E attendances –
but I would flag that it is only the admissions that are well coded using ICD-10. HES A&E data is
currently being replaced by the new Emergency Care Dataset (ECDS) which should contain better data
on A&E attendances, including reason for attendance, going forward:
https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-collections-and-data-sets/data-sets/emergency-care-d
ata-set-ecds you may want to mention this.
6) I definitely agree that the reporting of the data quality for violent crime should improve, however
based on the available data (and bearing in mind that you don’t present subnational data, or data on
whether reported knife crime has increased based on CSEW – see point 4) I think you play down the
increase in knife crime related injury admissions too much. For a rare but serious event such as this, a
continuous increase since 2014 is concerning, and something that should continue to be monitored and
may need to be acted on by policy makers.
7) An alternative view to the one you present is that it is positive that the media does give attention to a
very serious type of crime that tends to cluster strongly among vulnerable teenagers from non-white
ethnic groups living in poor urban areas. An alternative might be that they ignored it until it affected a
white, middle class community. Although your comment about data quality and historical context still
stands.
8) Can you make clearer whether you are actually calling for a reporting guideline for violent crime
similar to the WHO for suicide reporting?
