
This is a really important study adding to the growing body of literature on induction of
labour. It is a carefully conceived and conducted registry based RCT (SWEPIS) comparing
outcomes of induction of labour at 41 weeks gestation with expectant management and
delivery at 42 weeks gestation. The trial was stopped early after an independent Data and
Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) found more babies died in the expectant management
group.

Although the mortality rate was higher than estimated pre-trial, a difference in mortality is
plausible. The finding is consistent with observational data and previous meta-analyses of
trial data.
The findings are likely to be of interest to an international and general audience; policy
makers and the public. Rising induction rates, new evidence on IOL, impact on maternity
services and increasing public awareness of stillbirth, and opposing views on IOL will all
contribute to the significance. Earlier this year the BMJ published the INDEX trial that that
failed to show non-inferiority of expectant management to 42 weeks compared to induction
at 41 weeks https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.l344. In a linked editorial Kenyon and Johnston
rightly called for caution in interpreting the results and concluded ‘The results of this new
trial are not sufficiently conclusive to change current practice, and we await with interest the
results of the forthcoming SWEPIS trial, which may help resolve this question.” The findings
of the SWEPIS trial (in the context of previous evidence) do indeed seem to be conclusive
that expectant management to 42 weeks is associated with a small, but statistically
significant increase in baby deaths. It would be timely to publish this paper in the BMJ along
with an editorial.
The findings are likely to impact practice guidelines - many guidelines including the UK (NICE
CG70) recommend IOL at between 41 and 42 weeks or at or by 42 weeks. IOL is the only
obstetric intervention proven to reduce stillbirth.
Overall the study design and conduct seem appropriate and clearly answer the research
question. The study was registered, and a protocol published and a CONSORT guideline
followed. It was an open label trial which could be a potential source of bias, but it is difficult
to imagine how else the research question could be answered; or how it could influence a
hard outcome like mortality. The paper states that the statistician was blinded to treatment
allocation, but I imagine that the groupings would be obvious from variables such as
gestation at birth.
The discussion of the findings is appropriate, and strengths and limitations discussed.
COMMENTS
- The early cessation of the trial due to mortality should be included in the abstract
- Figure 1 should differentiate between ineligible women and eligible women who declined
participation (to see generalisability of the participants)
- There were multiple comparisons. Were any adjustments for these made in the analysis?
- Can the independence of the DSMB be clarified?
- The lack of patient and public involvement is disappointing; but I don’t think that this
omission detracts from the importance of the findings. It would be helpful to involve lay
representatives in the interpretation and dissemination of these results. The “survey of
participant experience in the two arms of the trial was performed” is research on trial
participants, not PPI. It should not be included in this section. The research question is
certainly one that has been identified by service users (eg Cheyne et al) and this could be
mentioned.
- Discussion: I don’t see that the fact that the study was stopped as a weakness– it is
ethically correct due to an excess in deaths. Although pragmatic and commonly used in
maternity trials, the composite outcome is problematic due to the inclusion of conditions of
differing severity, some of which are not strongly associated with mortality/long term
morbidity.

- Minor - There are a number of phrases that I expect are literal translations but not clear in
English – eg what is ‘involuntary childlessness’ (Table 1). The phrase “early induction” is
used in several places in reference to the group allocated to induction at 41 weeks gestation.
I do not find this helpful as it is non-specific and implies IOL <41 weeks. The discussion
could discuss generalisability more broadly (quite focused on Swedish practice).
