This is a significant study that deserves publication in a high impact journal. The main limitation is that
the control group (regular meat-eaters) were almost 10 years than than the comparison groups and it is
not entirely possible to rule out a cohort effect. However, the size effect of the lower CVD incidence is
consistent with the size of the effect predicted by the lower serum cholesterol concentrations in the
vegetarian group particularly in the men.
There were few differences between low meat-eaters and fish eaters (the intake of fish was similar in
both groups) but their blood cholesterol concentrations were still higher than the vegetarian/vegan
group. It would be of interest to know if the combined low-meter + fish eaters groups differed from the
combined vegetarian and vegan groups as they were better matched for carbohydrate protein and fat
intake.
The tables and figures may be a little confusing to the reader because the number of cases in proportion
to the number of subjects in each group suggests a far bigger effect than suggest by the hazards ration.
The footnote to the Figure 1 does not include adjustment for age and this is lacking from other tables.
The generalisation of the finding of lower incident CVD of this does equally to both genders is
questionable especially as the sensitivity analysis suggest the benefit is primarily in men below the age
of 60.
The authors have tried to express the reduction in number of cases over a ten year period in Table 3.
However, such an estimate will be strongly influenced by age and will increase substantially above the
age of 60 years. For example, a non-smoking man aged 50 sharing the characteristics described in Table
1 would have a predicted risk of 4.4% over the next decade where as the equivalent risk prediction
would be 9.8% in a man aged 60 years using QRISK2. Table 3 suggest that the average CVD risk in the
meat-eaters was 5.1% over 10 years!

The reason for the higher risk of stroke among the vegetarian groups especially the vegans is
perplexing. I would recommend caution on speculating that there might be some unknown nutritional
deficiency contributing to this before entirely ruling out the known knowns e.g. high blood pressure and
failure to take BP lowering medication.
The benefit in terms of risk of the combined stroke and IHD appears to be confined to men under the
age of 60 years. This would appear to be consistent with the observations that elevated serum
cholesterol is a stronger predictor of risk in younger men than those over 60 years. In contrast, it
appears the increase in stroke was mainly in the female vegetarians(Supplementary Table 7) so there
was no net benefit in the combined endpoint of stroke and IHD for women (Supplementary table 7). It is
to be noted that the presence of risk factors had a stronger effect on risk of stroke in the combined
vegetarian and vegan group. It is know that as a group vegetarians and vegans are more reluctant than
the generally population to take prescription medications especially BP lowering medications. Could a
possible explanation be that that this group was not taking blood pressure lowering medication to the
same extent as those with risk factors in the reference group?.
Previous findings on vegetarians have been confounded by such factors as reluctance to take
prescription medications or have immunisation injection (e.g. some of the earlier studies which showed
an excess of deaths from respiratory disease in vegetarians).
The absolute rates of stroke are low under the age of 60 years and as risk increases with age, could the
differential rates of stroke observed in the study be due to a survivor effect.?
High blood pressure is the major risk factor for haemorrhagic stroke and blood does rise substantially
with age and is more sensitive to sodium intake over the age of 50 years. Many people with normal
blood pressure aged 40 will go on to develop hypertension in later life. Many of the foods consumed by
vegans, in particular, are relatively high in salt (bread, yeast extracts, miso, soya sauce,
meat-substitutes). Vegans and vegetarians can have high salt intakes.
