This is a well-conducted study examining the association between fluconazole use in early
pregnancy and the risk of specific groupings of birth defects. The study design is
appropriate, and the extensive analyses included are comprehensive. The manuscript is
very clear and well-written. I have only a few comments for the authors.
I was wondering how the timing of the birth defect diagnosis may impact the analysis. The
authors write that ICD codes for the included birth defects were sued to identify infant
records within the first three months after delivery. While this seems appropriate time
period for some structural birth defects (including conotruncal hearts and musculoskeletal
defects), cases of cleft palate are somewhat frequently diagnosed at an older age (see
Hanny et al’s Late detection of cleft palate). Potentially this could have led to an
under-ascertainment of oral clefts, particularly cleft palate cases. Could the time window
of 3 months be increased for some birth defects to help identify cases identified outside
that time period? Could you assess the “completeness” of case ascertainment of cleft
palate in some way?
While the authors controlled extensively for confounders associated with maternal
co-morbidities, indication, and demographics via the propensity score, I was still struggling
with how we should think about the potential for other confounders unmeasured in MAX,
particularly smoking as smoking is associated with the birth defects of interest in this
analysis. I found myself struggling a bit with these confounders in terms of the negative
control analyses. The authors observed associations within some of the negative control
analyses, so interpreting those results a bit more would be helpful to the readers.
Minor comment: Page 4: The sentence in the Background which starts “These increased
risks were only reported by a single study” makes it sound like one study found all of the
increased risks mentioned, when that was not the case.
Reviewer: Meredith Howley, New York State Department of Health
