This manuscript examines primarily the impact of population-based BP screening on
hypertension among older adults. Overall, the paper merits significance and possesses many
strengths, including using data of a large-scale survey which could improve the statistical
power, implementing DDR to study the causal relationship under a quasi-experimental
design, and the findings will contribute to the field and be of potential public health benefit.
However, the manuscript would be strengthened by further explanation of the intervention,
study population and routine management of hypertension patients in China.
The first question is about the intervention. As the authors mentioned, the screening alone
may not lead to BP improvement. Screening should be provided with following up services if
the screening outcome is positive. In this study, screening, results notification and education
together were the intervention package, if I understand correctly. The intervention should be
described clearly but now is vague. Were there any educational pamphlets distributed? How
did the CDC workers provide the advices? For example, how to encourage older adults to
reduce psychological stress? How much time the CDC workers spent on each education? In
the discussion, the authors attributed the modest or non-significant results to low healthcare
utilization and adherence to lifestyle modification of hypertension patients. It is also possible
that the screening package itself is not significant.
The second question is about the representativeness of the study population. The average
age of the study sample is around 85. Is this sample a representative one of older adults of
China? This should be fully discussed in the method and the discussion section.
The authors should also introduce the management of hypertension patients in China. As
only 16.1% of hypertension patients had treated and controlled hypertension, what are the
key gaps in the management? This can benefit countries facing similar challenges. And were
the country CDC workers who did the survey the same health workers providing routine
services to those with hypertension? This should also be described in the method section.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Jing Gu
Job Title: Associate Professor
Institution: Sun Yat-sen University
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 2
