This comprehensive and thorough analysis of FTF implemented in multiple countries
compared with non-FTF countries in SSA provides valuable quantitative information on the
programme’s effects on 3 main nutritional indices. Strengths of the report are the use of
routinely-collected data, presentation of the raw data (eTable 2) and the exhaustive
sensitivity analyses.
A surprising finding was that, despite wasting falling in the pre-intervention period in
non-FTF countries (eFigure 1), the prevalence of wasting then actually increased in the
non-FTF countries (at least in the fully-adjusted analysis; Fig 1). This questions the
interpretation that FTF reduced wasting. Could the authors comment on why wasting
appeared to increase in the non-FTF countries - and also whether the data from one
country (Nigeria) may have unduly influenced the results (eTable2)? Since removing
Nigeria from the analysis resulted in a non-statistically significant difference (eTable 9), an
alternative interpretation is that FTF protected against an increase in stunting prevalence –
rather than decreasing stunting per-se.
The authors describe the broad scope of FTF as it targets poverty as well as nutrition
through numerous mechanisms (page 6). Although statistically significant, the small
percentage changes in all 3 nutritional indices suggest that major causes of undernutrition
were not addressed by FTF. Could the authors explore what might these be?
The broad range of nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific interventions are outlined in
lines 12-29 page 6. The fact that different interventions operate in different countries (and
zones within countries) is also stated. Would it be possible to include a table detailing the
main interventions that were run in each FTF country?
The various international nutrition targets are described in lines 38-46 on page 21. Is it
possible to estimate % change/year in nutritional indices due to FTF – to assess better its
likely contribution to the SDG nutrition targets if sustained over subsequent years?

Is it possible to also comment on cost-effectiveness? E.g. an estimate of the cost of
preventing stunting in one child?
Finally, Table 2; line 21: please clarify the meaning of “under 5 siblings (%)”