General Comments

This is a clear and concisely presented manuscript describing the most comprehensive
multi-country analysis to date of the short-term association between ozone and
non-accidental mortality. The magnitude of the analytical data allowed for assessment of
heterogeneity and the shape of the concentration-response relationship. In addition, the
multi-city analysis allowed an estimation of the (country-level) short-term ozone
attributable mortality under different counterfactual assumptions. This analysis suggested
a substantial amount of attributable burden was due to levels < 100 ug/m3. In addition to
the multi-city design and state-of the-art application of a two-stage modeling approach
(previously applied mainly to analyses of temperature), strengths of the analysis include
the sensitivity analyses for co-pollutants and meteorologic measures.
Specific Comments
Presumably the analysis is limited to total and non-accidental mortality due to limited
access to data describing cause – specific mortality? As well even with such data being
available there may be challenges inherent in pooling cause of death information when
there are likely coding/practice differences between cities (and countries). The manuscript
would benefit from some mention of cause-specific mortality information (why it was not
included even in a subset of the cities where it is certainly available) and its potential utility
in more clearly delineating ozone mortality impacts, including assessment of causality.
Related to the above point regarding cause-specific mortality, there is potential that the
attributable mortality differences (p11) estimated for different countries might also be
related to differences in the underlying distribution of mortality related to pre-existing
diseases potentially affected by ozone (and not just exposure, as currently indicated in the
manuscript). For example, if short-term ozone exposures only affect those with
pre-existing COPD and asthma, then differences in the prevalence of those diseases would
be an additional explanation for heterogeneity in ozone-attributable mortality. This should
be mentioned in the Discussion.
In the Discussion of the impact assessment, perhaps some discussion is warranted on the
observations that personal exposure to ozone is poorly correlated with ambient ozone (e.g.
Sarnat JA, Schwartz J, Catalano PJ, Suh HH. Gaseous pollutants in particulate matter
epidemiology: confounders or surrogates? Environ Health Perspect. 2001
Oct;109(10):1053-61). This suggest the possibility that the impacts attributable here to
ozone may in fact be due to a mixture (perhaps one dominated by specific PM components,
where the personal:ambient correlation is larger than that for ozone) of which ozone is
only a surrogate.
Can the authors suggest possible explanations for heterogeneity? E.g. (null estimates in
China and Spain). I can appreciate that the authors are hesitant to speculate but certainly
they have thought about possible reasons and it would be helpful to readers to at least
mention some possibilities.
