In general, I agree mostly with the authors with regards to the evidence that often
used in nutrition guideline. However, I think the authors need to summarize the
existing tools for evidence synthesis correctly (there are many confusions out there
about systematic review and guideline development processes), and clearly separate
the systematic review processes and guideline development processes. It seems like
the authors themselves also are a little bit confused by some of the existing tools
namely risk-of-bias assessment for individual studies that are included in a
systematic review, strength of (a body of ) evidence grading tools, and finally
grading of the strength of the recommendations.
Page 4, line 10, NutriGrade is incorrectly cited as a risk-of-bias assessment tool.
NutriGrade is a scoring system to judge quality of evidence (=strength of the body
of evidence). NutriGrade is similar to GRADE that is mentioned as the last crucial
steps in guideline development. However, GRADE include both the processes of
grading the strength of the body of evidence, and grading of the strength of the
recommendations.
Generally, I agree with the authors' perspectives described in "Evidence about
nutrition" and "Taking a complexity perspective" sections. However, not all nutrition
guidelines are "food-based" guidelines. For example, Dietary Reference Intake
(DRIs) values are currently still using "single-nutrient approach" to derive the DRI
values. I think it is important to point out that systematic review methods are
flexible (although lack of consensus in the "best approaches" to synthesizing
nutrition evidence), if the decision makers (or guideline developers) ask broad
questions, systematic reviews can be done to answer all the questions (it would be
very expensive to conduct such broad systematic review). Asking good (and
relevant) questions are the critical first step to ensure usefulness of a systematic
review and success of evidence-based guideline development.
The proposed solution may work for developing dietary/food-based guidelines but
ultimately it requires "buy-in" from decision makers (e.g., policy makers). Many
nutrition guidelines are developed by policy makers who often are not familiar with
systematic review processes or not trained to use systematic reviews to develop
guidelines. I think one critical missing step is the training of the end users of the
evidence synthesis products (including systematic reviews). In the U.S., the
guideline development processes are completely separated from the systematic
review processes. The proposed solution may work better when there is a close
relationship between guideline development and systematic review, like The WHO
guideline development process. It is very important to recognize that currently there
is lack of universal "standard" approach to develop nutrition guidelines worldwide.
Perhaps the present manuscript is intent to inform WHO nutrition guideline
development process? The authors must clearly define the target audience of the
present paper.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Mei Chung
Job Title: Associate Professor
Institution: Dept. of Public Health and Community Medicine, School of Medicine,
Tufts University
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: Yes
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: Yes
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-check
lists/declaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy)
</a>please declare them here: I am a consultant to several committees of the Food
and Nutrition Broad of the Health and Medicine Division (HMD, formerly IOM
[Institute of Medicine]) of the National Academies of Sciences. I received research
funds from the AHRQ to perform systematic reviews to support Dietary Reference
Intake values (DRIs) as well as to conduct methodological research to advance the
research synthesis methods for the field of nutrition.

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
