Dear Editor
The manuscript is relevant, original, brings a novel evidence on this important field.
It is very well written, it has very high-quality analyses and robust results. I strongly
recommend the publication.
Some minor suggestions:
Page 3 and abstract - I don´t believe that the “precautionary principle” applies here.
It may be used when you have a hypothesis not empirically tested. It is not the
case. I suggest you keep the sentence as “Considering other studies that have
shown associations between ultra-processed food consumption and other
non-communicable diseases, the consumption of fresh or minimally processed foods
should be promoted”. The same applies for the abstract.

Introduction
Page 4, line 10. I suggest you drop the reference number 4 on high-risk patients
and keep just the references from WHO and The European and American Guidelines
(references number 1, 5 and 6).
Page 4, line 15 – Reference 7 is not fitting well here since it does not provide
evidence on trends of food consumption. Consider also citing “PAHO. Ultra-processed
food and drink products in Latin America: Trends, impact on obesity, policy
implications. Washington D.C.: PAHO, 2015.” and “Juul F, Hemmingsson E. Trends in
consumption of ultra-processed foods and obesity in Sweden between 1960 and
2010. Public Health Nutrition 2015; 25:1-12.”
Page 4, line 18 – Consider citing “Rauber, F. et al. Ultra-Processed Food
Consumption and Chronic Non-Communicable Diseases-Related Dietary Nutrient
Profile in the UK (2008-2014). Nutrients, v. 10, p. 587, 2018.”
Page 4, line 23. You may want to add evidence on the higher energy density from
the ultra-processed foods, the potential impact on satiety control and glycemic
responses.
Page 4, line 23 “…highly palatable(12,23).” Reference 12 is not fitting well here.
Methods
Please clarify how you have dealt with outliers. Did you drop out of the analyses
20% of the initial sample? (page 5, line 39).
Please provide more information on sodium intake assessment (page 5, line 43)
Suggest changing “Degree of food processing” to “Extent and purpose of food
processing”
Statistical analysis
BMI is an important mediator of the association between ultra-processed foods
intake and CVD. It would be important to present a model without this adjustment
(not only as sensitivity analyses). A suggestion would be to include this variable on
model 4.
Results
Page 8, line 7 Please better explain and/or give examples of “sugary products”
(Cookies? Industrialized desserts?), “ultra-processed fruits and vegetables” (?),
“starchy foods” (?), and “processed meats and fish” (nuggets? sausages?)
Page 8, line 11 – You did not describe the Food Standard Agency Nutrient Profiling in
your methods section. Actually, it is not clear why you did this analysis. I could drop
this from the paper or better explain it in the text.
I suggest you do not present results of subgroups of ultra-processed foods
(Appendix 7).
Discussion
You could add to your discussion of possible mechanisms that explain the
association, the specific effects of ultra-processed beverages (sugar-sweetened
beverages). They “damage” satiety control mechanisms that can lead to weight gain

and there are also some evidence on possible damages advanced glycation end
products present in soda.
See:
DIMEGLIO, D. P.; MATTES, R. D. Liquid versus solid carbohydrate: effects on food
intake and body weight. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord, v. 24, n. 6, p. 794-800,
2000.
URIBARRI, J. et al. Single oral challenge by advanced glycation end products acutely
impairs endothelial function in diabetic and nondiabetic subjects. Diabetes Care, v.
30, n. 10, p. 2579-82, 2007.
