Dear editor. I enjoyed reading this manuscript describing - and providing increased clarity - on a highly
important topic for clinical practice guidelines worldwide. Beyond guideline developers I would think
users of guidelines - such as clinicians and their patients - would find this paper of interest.
I find the paper clearly written and nicely structured around problems and proposed solutions for expert
opionions and expert evidence. The authors describe how the conceptual framework has evolved through
real life guideline experiences where challenges have arisen and they have experimented with how to
solve them. The references underpin the framework components nicely (e.g. conflict of interest
standards, GRADE rating of certainty). The authors also appropriately recognize the limited empirical
evidence and tools to support guideline panels in applying the framework.
Here follows a few queries and suggestions for the authors to consider, if this paper is accepted for
publication in BMJ Analysis.
1. The authors represent the GRADE working group - which I am also involved in - and readers not yet
using this system for moving from evidence to decisions may question how they can deal with these
problems in their guideline efforts. A comment on how the framework apply to other grading systems for
guidelines could be helpful.
2. I find the title catchy but a big ambigious. In the first sentence I would think authors want to
communicate that expert opinion is not the needed input, rather it should be expert evidence. In the
second sentence one of the solutions is highlighted, rather than the value of the conceptual framework,
with a set of solutions. Could an alternative title be Unpacking expert opinion into expert evidence to
transparently inform trustworthy guideline recommendations? Also, trustworthy guideline
recommendations is used as a term in the title, which I think is a good choice. I can not find that the
authors explicitly explain this term in the introduction. In the last paragraph I suggest they introduce
this term, where they already have the appropriate references from IOM and G-I-N in place.

3. Box 4 probably contains a typo that made the sentence on how the evidence that informed the panel
was not systematically and transparently described hard to understand. I assume the panel was not
based on systematic reviews?
4. With the increasing active involvement of patient-partners in guideline panels I think the paper could
be strengthened by and giving an example or two on how patient experts may unduly influence panel
processes, with the proposed solutions just as applicable to patient-partners as to other kind of experts.
This point is a bit hidden in the paper now I think.
5. If there is need to save space I found the problems and solutions a bit repetively presented through
the paper.