Dear BMJ and authors,
Thank you for allowing me to review the manuscript “Manual acupuncture versus sham
acupuncture and usual care for the prophylaxis of migraine without aura: randomized,
multicentre, clinical trial”. This is an interesting study which adds knowledge to the migraine
population, the medical- and manual medicine field. The manuscript needs some
adjustments and my suggestions follow below.
Title:
Please include “episodic” migraine in the title and consequently use “episodic” throughout
the manuscripts including the abstract, as the included population clearly was not chronic
migraine. If this is not correct, I would suggest the authors to clearly present how many
chronic migraineurs were included and sub-analyse if possible; i.e., table 1 is suited for this
information.

Introduction:
I would consider adding a sentence in the first paragraph about the ineffectiveness and/or
contraindications to migraine medication which is the case for about 15% of the migraine
population. Hence, another indication for why there is a need to investigate
non-pharmacological interventions [Schulte LH, May A. Headache research in 2014:
Advancing migraine therapy. Lancet Neurol. 2015;14(1):6-7.].
Second paragraph: I would suggest a rephrase, i.e., “acupuncture manipulations” to
“acupuncture interventions”.
Second paragraph: I do not consider minor or no difference as ambiguous results; thus,
please rephrase the following sentence "Such ambiguous results might be ascribed to the
inappropriate placebo control settings".
Third paragraph: I would suggest the authors to elaborate on the challenges of blinding
participants in most non-pharmacological trials, i.e., acupuncture, physiotherapy,
chiropractic and osteopathic RCTs. I know that this difficult challenge is not fully understood
in the medical research field, but when done, and with success, it could be acknowledge as a
great achievement. Please provide the readers with this context in the introduction, which
then, nicely elaborates further in the discussion section.
Third paragraph: The sentence, “In fact penetrating sham control was commonly used in
previous clinical trials on migraine” must be substantiated with references.
Last paragraph: Please add the following marked in cursive; Therefore, we designed a
non-penetrating sham acupuncture and usual care as controls to determine the efficacy of
manual acupuncture “and thereby quantify the true placebo response” in the prophylactic
treatment for patients with migraine without aura.
Methods:
Study design: As the randomisation procedure was at 2:2:1 ratio, I am warrant how you
maintained a blinded statistician during the analysis as the ratio clearly disclosed the control
group?
Participants: All though it might be evident, I would suggest the authors to include that the
participants were diagnosed by a neurologist.
Participants: Unable to differentiate migraine from other types of headaches is superfluous
as all other headaches was excluded. Thus, please remove this and write “all other primary
and secondary headaches were excluded”.
The fact that all other primary headaches was excluded increases the probability that only
episodic migraineurs were included [ICHD-III].
Participants: Were woman who became pregnant, changed their or initiated prophylactic
medication regime or initiated other care excluded?
Randomisation and masking: It is unclear to me if participants were randomised before or
after the 4-weeks baseline period, thus, please make this explicit to the readers.
Study interventions: "All patients were instructed not to take any other analgesics and avoid
commencing other co-interventions" belongs in the exclusion criteria section.
Outcome measures: Please describe in detail how you assessed blinding.
Statistical analyses: In retrospect, it is unclear to me if you adjust the significant level for
multiple testing as you had two-group comparison and two primary end-points? And since

this was a multi-centre practice-based study including several acupuncturists, did you adjust
for intra-acupuncture correlations, or cluster effect, when stipulating power?
Discussion:
Please shorten the discussion section as I find much of the information repetitive, especially
regarding the Streitberger placebo needle and information related to this matter. All though
this is highly important, I would rather include information which is of value for the readers,
i.e., implication for clinical practice and the benefits acupuncture might have as an adjunct
or alternative to pharmacological treatment, especially considering the raising global
problem with medication-overuse headache (MOH) and the 15% non-responders to
pharmacological management.
Limitations:
Blinding of acupuncturists is not a limitation, it is impossible. Please remove this from the
section. Surely, the reviewers have pointed out additional limitations you now can add.
Table 1: Just a remark, ICHD-III diagnostic criteria points out photophobia and phonophobia,
not photophobia or phonophobia.
Table 2: I would suggest the authors to include “minus” before each number for clarity, i.e.,
-3.9, -2.2, -1.4 migraine days. This is done for VAS, table 3.