This is a valuable paper addressing the possible effects of the opioid agonist treatment on
the risk of mortality in BC, Canada. I have a few concerns about the databases used to infer
the treatment period and the link with records of mortality, which could be further clarified
by expanding the methods section on this aspect. Below are some of the main issues that
might need more clarification:
- Authors should give more details about the representativeness of the PharmaNEt database
for all those seeking OAT in the location studied. They only comment that care for those with
an opioid use disorder (OUD) is provided free of charge in a universal health care setting,
but it would be good to have more data on treatment coverage for OUD and if all individuals
who seek OAT are captured by the database used;
- The same issue related above should be clarified for the records of mortality extracted from
the Vital Statistics database. It is not clear what was the total loss to follow up in the current
study, and how the link between the pharmacological dataset and the mortality database
was made. Moreover, authors should provide the total proportion of cases for which the

cause of death was not available for the entire study period (we only now by the limitations
section that almost 70% of all deaths in 2017 had an "unknown" cause of death). This kind
of issue might severely impair the comparison between total mortality and drug-related
mortality provided in the manuscript;
- The categorization of a drug-related disorder used is too broad and it includes drug use
other than opioids. I suggest that authors should perform a sensitivity analysis looking
specifically at those death categories that include opioid use only. Furthermore, it is
recommended that authors expand the details about how these drug-related deaths were
defined and their inherent biases (e.g. did it usually include post-mortem toxicological tests
confirming opioid use?);
- It seems the risk of total mortality varies greatly depending on the definition of the “post
OAT period”. I would recommend authors to provide the different definitions in the results
section, so readers can be aware of this difference. But my main concern resides in the fact
that it is not clear if the link between the databases used is providing reliable information for
those classified as "in treatment" and the follow up on the mortality outcome. Authors need
to be clearer that these patients were correctly linked with the subsequent evaluation of
their deaths, particularly within the drug-related category, which would be more adequate if
the classification could be narrowed to opioid-related deaths.