I appreciate the authors’ detailed responses and substantial revision made to the
manuscript, although there remains a few issues that are calling for further revision.
Below are my major comments:
The nature of toxicity of air pollutant is only partially related to the pathway of exposure.
Simply saying because PM2.5 can translocate into the circulatory system, it is more toxic
than larger PM omitted some important factors that e.g. the surface area to volume ratio of
PM2.5 is much higher and that the toxins / carcinogens can attack cells much more rapidly
at a higher dose.
I find it difficult to appreciate the use of averages when commenting on the geographic,
population and case coverages of ZIP codes in the United States before knowing the
distribution of these parameters at a country level. My limited understanding suggest that
these wouldn’t follow normal distribution. I believe median, range and inter-quartile range
would be more meaningful. The larger ZIP codes are particularly worrying, because of risk
of exposure misclassification and the possibility of differing confounding structure in
participants living hundreds of miles apart and with very different characteristics.
It remains unclear how was the exposure classified for ZIP codes covering multiple 1km x
1km grid cells – was it based on the one nearest to the centroid of the area? If so, what
are the mean/ median distance between the residential addresses and the grid cell? If
there is no actual data, what would be a reasonably guess-timation (e.g. assume random
distribution of address and get the average distance from the centroid)? It may not make
sense to force the value of the central grid cell (“closest” to the ZIP code) on to individuals
living e.g. 10 grid cells away within the same ZIP code.
I appreciate the additional analysis on the 16 broad categories of diseases, but these
categories were too broad for the purpose of this study and many drastically different
diseases were grouped together. The fact that most of these outcomes showed a
statistically significant association with PM2.5 reflects non-specificity and could be
misleading and confusing for policymakers and the public.

I still see a need to analyse epidemiologically and pathologically related diseases following
conventional disease classification methods in the literature – as reviewer 1 and myself
have noted previously. It seems that the multi-level CCS software can group diseases into
finer sub-categories as well – it would seem more meaningful to do the analysis on just
one level away from the one with 214 groups, if the classification used is epidemiologically
sensible.
Regarding healthcare costs: I am not entirely convinced by the authors’ decision to only
report absolute costs of hospitalisation without providing appropriate contextual
information about the healthcare expenditure in the study population. I agree that it would
be difficult to make direct comparison between the figures from this study to the absolute
total healthcare cost – but I believe valid comparisons can be made to total hospitalisation
cost (excluding e.g. post-discharge cost/ medication cost as the present study did) in the
nation and/or the Medicare FFS beneficiaries aged >=65 years. This does not need to be
included in the results but should be noted in the discussion, otherwise it would greatly
limit the value of the economic analysis of this study for the non-US audience.
Minor comments:
Regarding the R-squared of the models: while the national and regional (census bureau
division that involve multiple states) averages are encouraging, it is less clear for smaller
areas (e.g. state or county level). It may be helpful to do sensitivity analysis excluding
populations where the state-level R-squared of the exposure model was below, e.g. 0.6, if
any?
The authors rightly highlighted the advantages of having examined negative control health
outcomes, but as I noted previously, it is plausible that some of the injuries (e.g. falls, car
accident) coded as the principal cause of hospitalisation may be related to acute
exacerbation of certain diseases linked to air pollution (e.g. COPD). In other words, the
negative control used may not be completely “clean”, and the authors should note the risk
of residual confounding more clearly.
Page 2 line 19: instead of “risks remained consistent”, “the associations remained
consistent” may be more appropriate.
Page 4 line 8 and 18: It seems a bit farfetched to argue on underestimating the “potential
benefits of lowering PM2.5” based on this study; it is odd to see “an increase of small and
achievable amounts of PM2.5”.
Page 5 line 4: please provide appropriate references.
Page 6 lines 12-13: the comment saying medicare covered most cases of PM2.5-induced
hospital admissions has two issues: 1) it is implying causality; 2) even though the
medicare population accounted for the highest proportion of total hospitalisation in the US
(e.g. ~40% in 2014 in terms of inpatient stays), they don’t necessarily account for “most”
hospitalisation induced by ambient PM2.5.
Page 17 lines 1-3: It would be more appropriate to discuss the problem of residual
confounding from unmeasured confounders in the paragraph on limitations (page 18 line
19), and in greater details on the potential bias from these factors.
Page 18 line 10: more epidemiological studies as well?
The link for reference #18 appeared to be invalid.
