Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper which uses a systematic review and meta
analysis to look at issues linked to pharmaceutical industry funding for community-based
organisations.
These are very important research concerns and ensuring and expanding transparency for
industry funding with both mainstream research and community activity is essential - and
has long been a focus for the organisations involved..
The paper by Fabbri et al. is clearly the result of considerable work, with a large and
extensive data search and analysis of important questions. However, most of the results do
not add to our understanding of the specific questions better than some of the studies it is
based on. More importantly, more direct research approaches would be more likely to
answer the four key questions outlined as study objectives rather than this approach to use
a literature review and meta analysis.

Although many of the referenced studies have used various methods to collect information,
including surveys and questionnaires and internet searches (mainly patient and industry
websites), the wide heterogeneity in the results makes the outcomes from this meta analysis
unclear on some of the four main research questions.
Q1 - The prevalence of industry funding is not addressed with an appropriate denominator,
using only data from a small number of studies that themselves only include small numbers
of patient organisations.
2 - The percentage of funding within each organisation that comes from industry - a key
marker for understanding context of potential influence - is either not available or only low
grade quality of evidence.
3 - The percentage of industry-funded groups that report this funding online – roughly 27%
– might now be out-dated because of changes in guidelines for industry funding over the
15+ years that data is taken from. Calendar year is not referenced or adjusted for over
absolute funding levels which will have changed over this time.
4 - The analysis of policy positions being shared with funders and organisations does include
interesting examples that suggest less than independent views. However, this part of the
paper doesn’t refer to some of the larger studies that also addressed this question. For
example, Rose et al reported high organisational importance and awareness of conflict of
interest (>80%) and much lower (7%) perceived pressure to conform to interests of
corporate donors.
This makes the paper’s results too indirect and dissociated from the key primary questions
set by the researchers - all of which are critically important to ensure transparency. As an
example, five out the the six criteria related to industry funding in Table 2 are graded either
low or very low. Many of the key parameters are covered by less than 6 studies. And the
large Kopp et al study included in Table 2 doesn’t appear to be included in the references.
The concern that industry funding can directly or indirectly influence the independence of
connunity-based patient organisations is a real one. Over the last 15 years, at least in the
UK, this had led to more restricted guidelines that govern such funding – and these include a
high level of transparency for all financial support. A direct audit of these guidelines might
therefore be a more effective and appropriate way to find out how closely they are being
followed.
Many other approaches for original research might be a better way to find out the current
percentage of community organisations (of which there are thousands in the UK alone) that
receive pharmaceutical funding. A similar approach would then find out the percentage of
overall budget that come from this source - as this is mandated in producing annual
accounts. Charities in the UK have to produce accounts and to highlight and name funders.
This would seem a much better way to systematically find out levels of industry funding and
the relative proportions each company contributes to the overall budgets. Although it is good
practice for charities to include their financial accounts online, these are open access
documents on the Charity Commission website.
APBI and other guidelines have also changed probably several times during the years and
combining results based on a metric of whether funding is reported on an organisations
website are likely to be very different in 2019 compared to 2003, and yet calendar years
isn’t accounted for in answers to the key questions.
There are also now stricter restrictions on the overall percentage of income that a single
company can contribute to an organisations overall budget - I think set at not being more
than 20–25%. In the past though, requirements for transparency for funding have been set
at much lower thresholds - perhaps when >5% of overall budgets.

Similarly, several aspects of pharmaceutical funding that the paper highlights as being most
important including the percentage that this makes to the overall organisations total budget,
are either not available or are too poorly detailed to be useful.
Although the paper sets out to look at differences by country (high vs low income etc), all
the selected studies are from high income countries (with one also including South Africa).
There might be value in looking at difference between high income countries, especially for
the US in terms of corporate guidelines.
Although a more minor point, the language of the paper sometimes has a bias that assumes
there is a story here to be discovered. It is not scientifically neutral and neither are the
assumptions behind the research. While the implications of inappropriate industry funding
affecting the perceived independence of community organisations and their related agenda
might easily be true, a more scientific approach should be to start from a position that is
more neutral.
For example, the implication of bias, whether conscious or unconscious, is never balanced by
an awareness that community organisations might have the capability to construct their own
agenda based on their direct experience of patient needs. And that they might similarly be
able to independently analyse and report results on new treatments or indeed work with
independent investigators and researchers to highlight any possible bias from
industry-presented data.
Similarly, and it is a point that runs throughout the paper, there is no recognition that
community and industry goals can be independently similar for different reasons: patients
who are desperately in need of treatment want better and more effective drugs, and the
financial interests of manufacturers are of little concern to them (other than when prices
prevent access to new drugs). The paper frames overlapping or similar goals as directional,
actually saying that community “echo” industry, rather than independently setting out own
agenda.
Similarly, the analysis of “shared positions” doesn’t include examples of when funded
organisations actively disagree or criticise those of the pharmaceutical funders. One easy
metric would be to see which organisations challenge inappropriate pricing for drugs. The
paper doesn’t include a discussion of where challenging company pricing strengthens an
organisation's independence. In research areas with many drugs, many companies accept
that over time new data might sometimes show their drugs in a more favourable light and
sometimes highlight new concerns. Independent community organisations (who take
positions that are different to that of their funders) have the potential to be seen as more
stable and less partisan - as should be their true role.
So an analysis that looks at the presence or absence of comment about drug prices in an
organisations work might be a useful surrogate for whether their funding has allowed them
to remain independent. And there will be many industry-funded organisations where an
absence of comment on pricing, shouts much larger than anything that proactiviely supports
one drug or another.
Finally, if the paper is published, I suggest that the two current final bullet points for what
this study are are not appropriate. Perhaps one new bullet summary would refer to the
limited data that this study could find for this analysis, I also thought that the health fields
analyzed were strange for not including any studies from the field of HIV, where activism
significant;t affected the research agenda, but where the relationship with industry funding
has also been complex and sometimes controversial.

In the interest of transparency, I have been working for charities that over the last 20 years
has including funding from both independent trusts and charities and from pharmaceutical
companies.
The funding has been critical to whether these services have continued and they have been
run without direct input from funders into the programmes they support. In contrast, public
funding - whether from the NHS or the complex history of commissioning bodies over that
time - might have been preferable or carried advantages, but in practice has either not been
available or not been sufficiently flexible to respond urgently to new situations.
I work for an organisation that accepts industry support - but which also has policies for how
this funding can only be used for specific projects. For example, industry funding is used to
support some direct services but is never used to support either publications or printing.
Advertising is not allowed in publications for either health professional or lay readers
(patients) - online or for any publication.
We also have a history of taking positions that directly challenge funders over both pricing
and marketing policies. All funding is reported online and itemised in the online annual
accounts.
