Review BMJ 47845
Effect of dual sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT)-1/2 inhibitor sotagliflozin on glycemic
and nonglycemic outcomes and on hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes. A meta-analysis of
randomized trials
This manuscript presents results from a systematic review that includes evidence from six
trials. There are a number of important methodological errors and some issues that might
require correction or clarification. I list these ones below.

•
Please provide a more complete description of the Inclusion/Exclusion criteria for
study selection. In particular, describe acceptable controls in the RCTs used. In the
Results it says that all trials had as background treatment insulin. As this maintained in the
“control arm” where placebos used? Further information required.
•
In the description of the outcomes, please include in the main body of the
manuscript only those for which results are presented. The complete set of outcomes can
then be reported as supplementary material. Currently the presentation of all glycemic
efficacy outcomes with their description/definition makes reading the manuscript difficult.
•
Please report the methods used for conversion from any measure of dispersion to
SD in a supplementary material. Also provide in Supplementary Table 1 or similar Table
the actual measures of dispersion extracted. Similarly, please report which studies did not
report change and for which the final SDs had to be imputed.
•
You report that all but one of the studies were funded and or sponsored by
pharmaceutical companies. There is good empirical evidence that this has an impact on the
the risk of bias for the study. This does not seem that have been captured in the current
RoB evaluation presented nor in GRADE. Please expand and clarify.
•
Related to the above, the current reporting of GRADE as well as the Appraisal of all
studies suggest a very high level of evidence consistent with having a very clear complete
answer for all questions and all outcomes. In reality for adverse events it is still unclear
and there are a handful of studies, with just a few thousand individuals included and very
short follow up. This needs to be reflected as part of your assessment, not only in the
conclusions. Also, the lack of long-term outcomes should be captured here.
•
“Treatments were evaluated on an intention-to-treat principle” this means that a)
no attrition was observed and all randomised individuals were analysed and reported in
each study based on their allocated treatment OR b) for those for which no outcome was
reported, you carried out imputation to be able to include their expected impact on the
outcome. Either of these approaches need to be described in more detail. It is possible that
there is a combination of both with some trials providing complete reporting and other
have not.
•
Please consider if a dose effect for adverse reactions/effects could exist but the
effect is too small to detect with the given numbers. If so, please include in your
Discussion.
•
Removing one study at a time is not a particularly useful sensitivity analysis.
Sensitivity analyses aim to evaluate the impact that decisions in the analysis methods
impact on the results. For example, the choice of Random Effects instead of Fixed Effect,
the inclusion of ALL studies regardless of quality, the use of imputed values based on other
assumptions (like different correlation levels). Several of these are relevant to this
systematic review and I would suggest these are therefore revisited and carried out.
Sensitivity analyses based on the RoB items might focus only in including those studies at
low-risk of bias as opposed to all.
•
The list of Sensitivity analyses proposed are more related to Subgroup analyses
(instead) as these are more about differences in effect dependent on study/intervention
characteristics. Please re-label them as such even if these were not possible to do.
•
When looking at dose-effect, within trial comparisons as well as between trial
comparisons are possible given the data available (please see: BMJ 2017;356:j573).
Please consider this option as an alternative analysis.
•
Will be useful to have a good description of potential adverse events in the
Background and the Discussion.
•
CRITICAL: Pairwise comparisons rely on estimating the effect based on
independent data. In this case, several of the comparisons are not independent as they
use the same placebo arm. This will need to be adjusted. There are several options to deal
with this, including separating the placebo arm or combining the interventions. Please see
Cochrane Handbook for a description on how to do it. This will have an impact on your
findings as you have less information than what is currently presented.
•
Looking at the impact of this on severe hypoglycaemia, I find that the final
comparison is no longer significant (once this adjustment is made). If you find the same,
please adjust this and the rest of your findings.

•
There is a need for a more complete table of study characteristics to be able to
assess the RoB. Please extend what is currently Supplementary Table 1.
•
When event rates are large enough the RR are preferable than OR. If events are
rare, it would be best to use Peto OR as summary statistic. Please consider this and decide
which one you will use and give a reason why in your Discussion. Sensitivity analyses using
the alternative option should be made to check for robustness of the results to your choice.
Similar issue for your choice of Random Effects instead of Fixed Effect.
•
Why have you not provided information for the 75mg if you are looking at dose
effect? This should be available for Baker 2017 (Supplementary Table 1). If so, please
include.
•
The Funnel plot for HbA1c is not consistent with dose-effect association. Please
comment.
