Angie Wade
The authors have made many revisions in the presentation of this study, and although they
have addressed some of my previous concerns, queries remain.
The emphasis in the introduction is now more towards a need to compare different
treatment options rather than being primarily a summary of the effectiveness of available
options. It therefore seems that a Network Meta Analysis may have benefits, the authors
should perhaps explain why this has not been considered.
The revised paper includes an investigation of publication bias via the inclusion of funnel
plots, which is a good addition. Further formal testing via significance tests may be invalid
due to small numbers of studies, but the authors should make comment.
The authors present a good case for using TSA and DARIS to reduce the risk of false positive
results and consider whether larger sample sizes are required to make definitive conclusions.
However, they then use the information from low quality trials with wide and/or inconclusive
confidence intervals to draw conclusions on optimal treatments without reference to how
interpretation of any analysis should be moderated according to the DARIS findings.
Although the authors have made improvements to the presentation of results within the
text, there should ideally be more focus on the clinical implications of the differences seen,
together with the imprecision of estimates. The conclusion section is long and many of the
observations/conclusions based on supposition rather than the data as presented, it needs to
be more focussed on the actual findings of this study (for example, the comments on
cost-effectiveness geared towards choices is more a discussion point than a conclusion from
the data presented).
Overall, the authors present a comprehensive analysis with the results clearly displayed in
forest plots and appropriate supplementary material showing individual study results. The

information is limited, as noted by the authors, and interpretations need to be tempered
accordingly
