Statistical Review
The authors have revised their manuscript taking account of the comments from the
reviewers and the editorial team. There are many helpful changes, for example, including
the absolute mortality rates for each quintile. The authors should be congratulated on
completing this large study and producing such an accessible report from it.
The statistical analysis methods and reporting generally are strong and sound. However,
there are some concerns.
1) A major concern that I have relates to the degree of confounding, and potential residual
confounding in these data. The differences between the HR1 model and the HR2 model
estimates are often substantial (e.g. Table 3 for Natto Q5 the HR1 estimate is HR=0.82,
whereas the HR2 estimate if HR=0.94 – so an 18% reduction in hazard of death becomes
only a 6% reduction). This sort of magnitude of change only occurs when the confounders
which have been adjusted for have strong effects. To me it is a red flag that the
confidence that can be put in the adjusted estimates is low as the chances that these
relationships have not been fully adjusted for is high. It would be wise to flag this as a
limitation and concern.
2) Certainly the description (see conclusion) that these are “definitive data” is an
overstatement. This is nutritional observational data which is never definitive! However,
the authors are clear that this is “association” and do not claim causality, which is good.
3) I am concerned that there is no adjustment for SES or poverty/deprivation related
measures. I have no idea how soy product consumption varies with wealth/poverty, but it
would be unusual for it not too. From the authors response it appears that these variables
were not collected and thus these are possibly major potential confounders which cannot
be adjusted for.
4) The covariates which assess current health are also very limited, just to diabetes and
hypertension. Again, there is high risk of residual confounding through omission of more
confounders.
5) The key relationships are for Natto and Miso consumption. I would very much like to
see a tabulation of the patient characteristics split down by the intake for each of these
product types to be able to assess the likely degree of confounding which occurs. These
could be added as additional tables.
6) The authors have added information in the discussion about the agreement between
repeated dietary measures, with a correlation of 0.42 over a 5 year gap. This shows quite
a substantial change of diet, but this which will have worked to attenuate any effects.
7) A note on presentation – the authors have appropriately moved all the zero intake for
Natto into the same category, which is now more than 20% of the data and thus no longer
a try quintile. However, it is still lablelled "Q1" in all the tables. This is properly explained
in the text and table footnote. The footnote needs to be more clearly linked so that a
reader understands this straightaway (or the actual numbers in Q1-Q5 need to be
restated). For example when I was looking at the “number of deaths” row in the table – I
was confused by seeing twice as many deaths in the Q1 for Natto.

8) Participants in the abstract – the numbers of males and females does not sum to the
total stated.
