Comments for the editor
Dear dr. Chatfield,
Please find attached my report on the above-mentioned paper.
This is an interesting assessment of the influence of government measures on the
development of the health care budget in the Netherlands, and the role of primary
care in this. Although the paper assesses the developments in the Netherlands,
conclusions about the potential role of primary care in controlling the health care
budget may carry lessons for other countries as well.
I do think, however, that the analysis as presented now is somewhat simplified, and
that the conclusion may be too positive. Next to the government measures, parallel
developments in health care should be considered, and the side effects of these
measures should be considered. That will lead to more balanced conclusions in the
manuscript.

With best wishes,

Prof. dr. Niek de Wit.

Comments for the author
This is an interesting and thorough analysis of the influence of government
measures on the development of the health care costing in the Netherlands, and the
central role of primary care in this. Authors describe the impact of five government
measures to reform health care organisation, with the overall aim of cost control.
They conclude that following these health care reforms costs stabilised, population
health improved and patient satisfaction with the health care system in the
Netherlands remained high
Although the historical description is adequate, the analysis is in my view somewhat
simplified, resulting in too optimistic conclusions.

First of all, in parallel to the government measures a number of other initiatives in
health care were implemented that contributed to cost containment. The first one
was the implementation of a quality of care program, implemented by the Dutch
Health Care institute. The program aimed at tackling unexplained practice variation,
improve transparency and stimulate optimal patients ‘choice. The program
comprised of a series of quality standards, indicators and quality targets for
hospitals and professionals. This program did probably substantially contribute to
costs development. The second one was the continuous pressure for ‘substitution of
care’, recently documented by the Ministry of Health in the ‘health care in the right
place’ document. This basically aims at delivering health care at the lowest possible
level. It was implemented in f.i. management programs for chronic disease and
regional transmural guidelines that helped to transfer management of diabetes,
COPD, heart failure etc out of the hospital, into primary care. Finally, the
government followed a typical Dutch political strategy of open discussions with all
parties involved to commit them to budget control on a macro level; every year the
total budget for hospital care, primary care, long term care, mental health care is
set after negotiations with the responsible professional organisations. The starting
point for these discussions, however, is a fixed, non-negotiable, overall health
budget. This process (which is called in Dutch: ‘polderen’) makes all parties jointly
responsible for meeting the targets.
Authors are generally positive about the outcome of the government measures for
primary care: the profession kept its key position in Dutch health care, and general
practice did even contribute to the cost containment process. I am less positive
about the impact on general practice as a profession. All these system reforms did
impact workload in primary care substantially.
To give just a few examples: as a result of the reforms in mental health care many
mental health patients that were previously institutionalised were re-integrated in
society. There was insufficient capacity in the mental health institutions for
outpatient follow-up, which was often left to primary care. Budget transfer for youth
care to the city councils was accompanied with a budget cut, which resulted in
shortage of psychiatric and psychological services for children. Again, this increased
pressure on the primary care work-force, which was only partly tackled by the
mental health nurses’ program. Merging of hospital emergency services with
out-of-hours GP for efficiency reasons resulted in substitution of patient load to the
latter, leading to a substantial increase in work pressure within these OOH services.
Reforming the long-term care led to a massive closure of elderly homes, that
previously acted as a protected living environment for frail elderly. Instead elderly
care had to be delivered at home, by community nurses and general practitioners.
Together with a number of minor measures, such as the cancelling of translation
services for non-Dutch speaking patients, and the inadequate funding of preventive
activities in primary care such as proactive elderly care programs and cardiovascular
prevention, this has led to an ever-increasing work pressure in general practice.
So, although general practice kept its key role, this did have side-effects. All the
changes in organisation and funding of the health system did increase the patient
load and complexity in general practice, and - as the primary care budget was not
raised synchronously - the overall outcome for general practice was less favourable
than may appear from the manuscript.
Many GP’s now even feel that the ‘stretch is out the primary care system’. Recently
professional GP organisations in the Netherlands started a country-wide discussion
about the sustainability of the cornerstones of general practice (personal relation,
24/7 access, integral approach and continuity of care). Although general practice will

keep its key position in future, this may result in changes in professional positioning
in the Netherlands.
I would not agree with the authors in their conclusion that ‘the government health
policy to amend the impact of competition and market mechanisms consisted of
expanding the role of primary care’ (page 6). The aim was budget control and
increasing effectiveness, and general practice was not the goal, but the instrument
in this. By taking over health care that was previously delivered by hospitals, mental
health and long-term care institutions (such as chronic disease management, mental
health care, youth health, elderly care) general practice in the Netherlands helped
the government to meet the pre-set targets, but the profession did pay a price for
this. This needs to acknowledged and restored before the government plans for
health care can be further implemented.
