Page 3, line 54 – Please change “99%” to the actual value - “98.7.”
Background, paragraph 2 – The authors should highlight an important reason to study
trends in overall post-discharge acute care is to understand whether the HRRP has had its

intended effect (to reduce rates of return to the hospital via improved transitional and
post-discharge care) – or if readmissions reductions simply reflect more aggressive
management of patients who return to a hospital in ERs and observation units (which
arguably, was not the intended objective of the HRRP).
Page 6, line 15-16: “…reduced access to the hospital and caused harm.” I would change
this language, as your study design does not actually answer this question.
Page 6, line 54 – Please clarify the ICD9 codes you used for each of these conditions
(would list ins supplement). In particular, please describe whether you used the “original”
or “expanded” definition of pneumonia.
Page 7, Line 8 – How did authors treat patients who were not enrolled (disenrolled) after
hospitalization, but died after discharge. Were these deaths included or excluded?
Page 7, 42-60 – How did the authors define patients with multiple visits within 30 days of
discharge that included an ER visit and observation stay?
Page 8, line 15 – How did the authors address patients with multiple post-discharge acute
care visits. Did they account for them all, or only count the first visit? They should make
this clear in their methods.
Page 8, line 31 – Please clarify what a “runs” test is for readers.
Page 9, line 24 – The presentation of only unadjusted trends (as described above) is
problematic given known shifts if case mix severity over this period.
Page 9, line 45-46 – The authors claim that “the issue of expansion of inpatient codes
(from 9 to 25) during the study period (which occurred in January 2011)” are mitigated by
their inclusion of inpatient and outpatient claims is speculation. The inclusion of outpatient
claims alone does not entirely address the bias introduced by the expansion of inpatient
codes. The authors should show whether their findings (on debility, delirium) etc… are
similar when they restrict their diagnostic codes to the first 9 for each year, which is the
standard used by other groups, as shown by Tsugawa et al JAMA IM
2019.(https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2737042)
Page 11, line 31 – for balance, the authors should simply say that overall post-discharge
acute are use did not significantly change over the study period. The associated figures
should be moved from the supplement to the main text, as this is an important finding.
Page 13, line 8 – Could the authors quantify “minimal changes?” Precisely how much did
mortality change among HF patients who were hospitalized and then returned to an ER?
What about Obs unit?
Page 13, line 2-29 - The authors should provide numerical values/changes for all of these
outcomes (e.g. change in mortality among HF patients who returned to an ED etc…) since
it is difficult to see small changes in their figures.
Page 14, line 15 – Could the authors provide the proportion of ALL patients (by condition)
who died without using post-discharge acute care and were discharged to hospice? This is
much more meaningful than presenting the proportion of patients who received a palliative
care consult that went on to hospice.
Page 15, line 11-14 – Unless I am misinterpreting these findings, do the authors data not
show that 1.3% of the increase in deaths was concentrated among patients with ED or
observation stays who were not admitted? The authors should, for balance, discuss the

possibility that deaths among patients with ED and observation stays might have
decreased absent the HRRP, which would make these minimal increases concerning.
Page 15, line 17-24 – The authors have downplayed the fact that the lack of decline in
rates of post-discharge care raises concern that the HRRP may have had no real effect. If
the HRRP had incentivized improved care transitions and post-discharge care, rates of
return to the hospital would be expected to fall, but the authors show that rates of return
have not changed over time. They need to provide more balanced perspective, and discuss
the fact that their findings could mean that the program hasn’t been as effective as initially
believed.
Page 16, line 7-9. “We found that patients that received care solely in observation units
and ED had lower rates of mortality than those who were hospitalized, indicating that these
settings were likely utilized for lower risk patients. Thus, the result does not support the
concern that high-risk patients are denied access to the higher-level services they need.”
The issue with this statement is that the authors’ study does not provide any information
on what happened to the “marginal” patient, who might have been readmitted prior to the
HRRP but now isn’t. One would certainly expect, in aggregate, mortality rates for
readmitted patients to be higher than those who were cared for in EDs/Obs units. The main
question, which the authors’ study does not answer, is whether there has been a shift in
how patients at the margin are triaged. The author should temper or remove their latter
statement.
Page 16, line 35-37 – “While suggested in a previous study, patients with pneumonia have
not had a consistent rise in post-discharge mortality in our more contemporary
assessment”
The authors simply present unadjusted trends in pneumonia – these findings can’t be
directly compared to the study they cite, which formally tested for changes in
risk-standardized mortality after HRRP announcement/implementation. The authors should
not compare these different studies or clarify that they observed no changes in
**unadjusted** mortality.
Page 17, Conclusion: “However, there is no evidence for harm related to increasing care in
alternative acute care settings, and patients who received care in observation units or EDs,
and were not readmitted, had low rates of post-discharge 30-day mortality”
The authors present unadjusted trends in mortality. Their study is descriptive, not causal in
design, and they do not formally test for changes in mortality associated with the HRRP.
Their study cannot actually determine whether or not there was evidence for harm, and so
they should provide more tempered conclusions.
