The topic of this article (the need for increased linkages between urban planning and public health) is
important and relevant, and the article is well-written and interesting. I think there is a bit of a gap in
the paper, though – after the discussion of the policy framework and the case studies, it would be
useful to sum up these sections and reflect on any gaps/inconsistencies in the policy framework and
reflect on any challenges or unevenness in the implementation of the policy framework. Getting the
perspective of practitioners on gaps/challenges with the policy framework and its implementation
would be very valuable. The conclusion implies that there is still a way to go in achieving health
supporting places, but we need more discussion of this – what more needs to be done and what are
the challenges to achieving it? Some more detailed comments about the article are discussed below.
General comment: the paper skips between sometimes referring to “England” and to the “UK”. For
non-UK readers it would probably be useful to spell out the geographical scope of the paper (which is
England) and to briefly explain why some things are referred to at the scale of England and some at
the scale of the UK.
Page 2, Introduction: The introduction section needs a paragraph briefly discussing the structure of
the paper.

Page 2, lines 15-17: “In 1854, Public Health advances were made when Sir John Snow linked a
cholera outbreak to the contaminated Broad Street Pump.” Don’t capitalize “Public Health”, and add
“in London” after “cholera outbreak” (for non-UK readers).
Page 2, line 19/20: “…town planners such as Ebenezer Howard who led the garden city movement.”
Add comma after “Ebenezer Howard”.
Page 2, lines 28-30: “Six years on and faced with an increase in prevalence of preventable health
conditions associated with the wider determinants of health (such as poor housing and air pollution)
the NHS Long Term Plan places emphasis on the relationship between health and planning highlighting
that the NHS, as well as Public Health, has a wider role to play in influencing the shape of local
communities.” Add commas after the text in brackets and after “planning”, and don’t capitalize “Public
Health” (unless it’s referring to the name of a particular department or agency). And there is a large
body of literature on the disjuncture between urban planning and public health, it would be good to
refer to some of this, e.g:
Corburn J. Confronting the Challenges in Reconnecting Urban Planning and Public Health. American
Journal of Public Health. 2004;94(4):541-6.
Northridge ME, Freeman L. Urban planning and health equity. Journal of Urban Health.
2011;88(3):582-97.
Rydin Y. Healthy cities and planning. Town Planning Review. 2012;83(4):xiii-xviii.
Sloane DC. From Congestion to Sprawl: Planning and Health in Historical Context. Journal of the
American Planning Association. 2006;72(1):10-8.
Page 4, Table 1: There are two bullet points in the “Design and Planning Principles” column that could
do with some elaboration, i.e. “Provision of healthier, affordable food for all” and “Reduce exposure to
environmental hazards” (both sentences need a few extra words with some broad suggestions of how
these could be done).
Page 7, Box 3: There is a citation that is not working properly (in my version it says “Error! Bookmark
not defined”).
Page 7: As discussed above, it would be useful to sum up the sections on the policy framework and
the case studies, and reflect on any gaps/inconsistencies in the policy framework and reflect on any
challenges or unevenness in the implementation of the policy framework. The conclusion implies that
there is still a way to go in achieving health supporting places, and there needs to be more discussion
of what else needs to be done and what the challenges are.
Page 7, Conclusion, lines 51-54: “Integrated Care Systems, Sustainability and Transformation
Partnerships, Clinical Commissioning Groups and the wider healthcare system are well-placed to work
with local planning authorities…” Integrated Care Systems, Sustainability and Transformation
Partnerships, and Clinical Commissioning Groups need to be mentioned earlier on in the article (they
are currently first mentioned in the Conclusion), and there needs to be some explanation of what they
are.
Page 7, Conclusion, lines 54-56: “…to ensure that health and wellbeing is embedded into the design of
new places from the outset.” Probably a much bigger challenge is the retrofitting of existing areas to
be more conducive to good health. Regeneration is mentioned in the next sentence, and this is
perhaps something that can be elaborated on.
