Summary:
This is an observational (cohort) study of nearly 50 000 individuals in BC, Canada who have
been treated with opioid agonist therapy (OAT). The purpose of the study was to compare
mortality based on OAT status (being on treatment, or off treatment), and before and after
fentanyl became a part of the illicit drug supply. The study used a retrospective cohort, and
the source of the data is administrative data from BC, Canada. The study measured crude
and standardized mortality rates (CMR, SMR) over time and according to OAT status. The
authors found that the risk of mortality for OAT patients was very high (12.1%). Notably,
the SMR was significantly lower during times of OAT, and when fentanyl entered the drug
supply and when a public health emergency was declared the relative risk of mortality after
discontinuing OAT was even higher. This study shows that OAT continued to be effective
during the opioid crisis, even when fentanyl became part of the illicit drug supply.

Population: People with OUD (PWOUD) in BC who have received at least one dose of OAT
(methadone, buprenorphine, between 01/01/1996 and 30/11/2017.
-this population was selected using an administrative database of provincial physician billings
and other datasets, capturing the entire population using OAT in a large geographical region
and is expected to be a diverse and representative population
-loss to follow up (leaving the jurisdiction) was addressed
Intervention: on treatment with OAT (methadone, buprenorphine/naloxone, injectable OAT,
slow release oral morphine)
-errors in the OAT records were discussed and addressed and represented a small number of
overall records (0.7%)
Comparison: off treatment with OAT
-sensitivity analyses conducted to determine the impact of not including the hospitalization,
and to treat deaths occurring in the time gap for each medication as being “on treatment”
Outcome: morality, all cause and cause-specific
-this outcome was easily ascertained by vital statistics (overall mortality)
-there was a good discussion of the risks of loss to follow up
In general, this is an important and well executed paper, and the results are urgently needed
in clinical practice. It is important, during this public health emergency, to understand that
even since fentanyl became part of the illicit drug supply and a public health emergency was
declared, OAT treatment continues to be effective and reduce mortality. The sample size is
large, the paper was thoughtfully done and there are appropriate sensitivity analyses.
Please address the following:
1. Regarding comorbidities (other substance use disorders, alcohol use disorder, mental
health disorder, non-cancer chronic pain, HCV, HIV), please include any references or data
available which validate the definitions of these diagnoses in the administrative databases,
as physician billing records are not always reliable for identifying diagnoses.
Is it possible that these comorbidities and covariates could have changed if there was a long
period between the first use of OAT and the end of the study?
2. To address misclassification bias, it would be helpful to explain what Pharmanet is and if it
is expected to capture all OAT prescriptions for the province over this time period, or if it is
possible that PWOUD could obtain OAT and have it not present in Pharmanet.
3. While loss to follow up was appropriately discussed and explored, there could be
misclassification in other ways. If someone moved into BC which a prescription for
buprenorphine/naloxone, and then discontinued it and died shortly thereafter, they would
never make it into the database.
4. Given the wide audience of the BMJ, and that not all readers work in addictions, it may be
worth explaining why buprenorphine/naloxone is expected to have a lower risk of death after
discontinuation compared to methadone.
5. Is it possible that this database does not include some individuals who do not receive
health care through the provincial publicly funded system (such as military personnel,
refugees, First Nations?). If this is the case, please explain this limitation.
6. It is important to note that this study only includes individuals who have used OAT at
some point. This study does not include PWOUD who have never used OAT, or prior to OAT
initiation, and this should be identified as a limitation in the interpretation of these results in
all individuals with OUD. It does not appear that it is possible to identify people with OUD

reliably in the database in a previously validated way (please clarify if this is not the case)
and the comparison between on/off treatment on OAT is nonetheless highly informative.