I thank the authors for their detailed response and revised manuscript, with is certainly
improved. I do, however, have some further comments that need to be considered in a
further revision.
Can there be some consideration of how the findings translate to impact on absolute risks?
For example, by 5 and 10 years after follow-up what is the average additional risk (or
reduction in risk) for each food type? I raise this because significant hazard ratios are

difficult to place into context without translation to the absolute risk scale at key
time-points.
Thank you for adding the multiple imputation analysis. The multiple imputation analysis is
much better described in the response to reviewers document, than in the revised paper
which only says: “Fifth, we used a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)-based method to
impute missing data … “ – how many imputations were used and how were results
combined across imputed datasets (e.g. Rubin’s rules)?
After imputation, the authors only examine the categorised variables, and not the best
analyses which model the variables on their continuous scale. Do the non-linear
relationships change after using imputation to deal with missing data, rather than the
missing indicator method?
“The inverse associations for total whole grains as well as individual whole grain foods were
attenuated but remained statistically significant after adjusting for BMI” – but the result for
popcorn was not statistically significant before adjustment for BMI were they?
“The non-significant p-values for heterogeneity …” – there are only 3 cohorts, so power to
detect genuine heterogeneity between cohorts is very low. Worth mentioning this at end of
this sentence for clarity.
“The goodness of fit of fully adjusted model was significantly improved by additionally
adjusting for individual whole grain foods (NHS: p<0.0001; NHSII: p<0.0001; HPFS:
p<0.0001) suggesting potentially heterogeneous associations with T2D risk.” – I think here
the heterogeneity statement refers to the effect being different for different whole grain
foods. Make this clear, and just previously the word heterogeneity is used to refer to
between cohort heterogeneity.
“In light of the positive association for popcorn intake, we repeated the likelihood ratio test
by removing popcorn intake variable and found similar results.” – not clear what is meant
by this sentence. That you wanted to ensure the significant test for differences in individual
wheat grain produces was not driven by the popcorn variable? If so, explain this explicitly
for the reader.
Paragraph starting “Cubic spline modelling suggested …” – I think the authors should make
it clear what adjustment factors were used in the findings being discussed. And similarly in
next paragraph.
In paragraph that starts with “After adjusting for BMI and other lifestyle and dietary risk
factors …”, there is a subsequent sentence that says “The inverse associations for total
whole grains as well as individual whole grain foods were attenuated but remained
statistically significant after adjusting for BMI” – so the paragraph starts by saying BMI was
adjusted for and then say results were the same when BMI was adjusted for. Hence
confusing! Please revise accordingly.
Phrase “a borderline statistically significant p trend” is inappropriate and should be
removed. What is a p trend? The authors should just say there less clear evidence of an
association for popcorn when popcorn types were analysed separately.
P trend is also used in the tables and elsewhere – please remove and give correct wording
(p-value for test of trend?).
“Mutually-adjusting for individual whole grain foods produced attenuated but statistically
significant estimates except that the association for wheat germ was attenuated to null” –
this is confusing as attenuated means attenuated toward the null anyway. Are the authors

saying that even after adjusting for each other results for each type remained statistically
significant apart from wheat germ? Also, is popcorn even significant to begin with?
“However, it is unlikely that the underlying biological mechanisms differ substantially by
race” – I think this is an overly strong statement, as type 2 diabetes is well known to be
associated with race, and so the impact of different food types may also be.
Table 1 should also reveal the % with missing values for each variable; currently this is
excluded it seems?
Table 2 and other tables, need to make it clear that the ‘p trend’ relates to a test for trend
using the CONTINUOUS values and not the categorised values in the preceding columns.
Also, is this a test for a linear trend?
Table headings could be clearer for all tables. E.g. Table 2 says “Pooled HRs (95%
confidence intervals) of type 2 diabetes for total whole grains consumption …” – I think the
authors mean “Pooled HRs (95% confidence intervals) quantifying the adjusted association
of total whole grains consumption and the hazard of type 2 diabetes.”
Table 4 – P-values for interaction are based on categorised variables. Please make this
clear, and also add note on findings when left on continuous scale.
Figure 1 – great to see this added to the main paper. Please say in heading that the trend
is the ADJUSTED POOLED relationship across the three cohorts, assuming it is common to
all cohorts. Same with other figures showing dose response relationships.
I hope this review is helpful, and allows the authors to clarify the article findings further
before publication.
Best wishes, Richard Riley
