The paper describes a randomised controlled trial comparing conventional laparoscopic
ventral hernia repair and robot-assisted ventral hernia repair. To my knowledge, this is the
first randomized controlled trial with sufficient statistical power evaluating robot assisted
ventral hernia repair. Considering the rapid implementation of robot-assisted surgery in the
daily routine, the authors should be greatly congratulated for this. I believe this work may
become one of the most cited articles on this topic. I am looking forward to a report on the
long-term outcome, including recurrence rate, from the same study.
Major comments:
1. In both groups IPOM repair was compared. However, this implies that the potential
benefits from robotic hernia repair has not been fully assessed. Robot-assisted ventral
hernia repair facilitates pre-peritoneal onlay mesh (PPOM), extended-view TEP (e-TEP),
transabdominal partial extraperitoneal (TAPE), MILOS (min or less open sublay operation)
and trans-abdominal preperitoneal (TAPP). These techniques provide advantages over
IPOM repair that have not been evaluated in the present trial. The discussion should
recognize the potential advantages of robot assisted ventral hernia repair that are not
presented in the present paper.
2. The absence of difference in pain postoperatively could be explained by the closure of
the fascia defect, which may have caused tension in the fascia. Did the authors consider
bridging the defect with the mesh without closing the defect?
3. The mean operative time was relatively short in the LVHR group (77 minutes). This
implies great experience of the surgeons. As the time required to dock on the robot cannot
be shortened even with great experience, the great difference in operative time between
the groups is not surprising. The relative advantage of RVHR may, however, be more
pronounced for surgeons with more limited experience. The same probably applies to the
other outcomes (hospital stay, postoperative pain etc.). I believe that the favourable
outcome in previous studies, in particular regarding patient-centered outcomes, could be
explained by the fact insufficient technical skill may be compensated for by the advantages
of the robot. Whether this is justifiable from an ethical and economic point of view may be
questioned, but it is worth mentioning in the discussion.

Minor comment:
There is an unintended wordplay in the second line in the results “The majority of patients
were female minorities”. I would rephrase it as “The majority were females and ethnic
minorities”
