BMJ-2020-059724.R1- Pharmacologic treatment for COVID-19: living systematic review and network
meta-analysis

I believe that the authors have responded to all reviewers’ questions. I was particularly glad to see that
they have decided to include results only for those treatments where a minimum sample size (100
patients or 20 events) had been accrued. Having said that, this is likely to have been a post-hoc
adjustment and requires a mention in the Limitations section. Related to this, given that the results are
only given for those interventions with 100+ patients or 20 events, a sensitivity analysis of the models
including only those interventions would be appropriate. Consider running models to check that results
are robust to this.
Major point for journal or for adjustment by authors:
Many thanks for including the information regarding the extracted data for all studies. As the authors
comment, this information is easy to visualise and use as an Excel spreadsheet but impossible to use as
a PDF. Please can the journal (with the authors) make sure this information is available to readers. As a
related issue, the current PDF version of the manuscript has hundreds of pages that are impossible to
read/use.
Critical issue:
Recommendations and conclusions (including Abstract) for dexamethasone are based on the direct
evidence estimate. Given that you advocate for a NMA as the main way of answering the question, there
is a need for some nuance regarding this. I am a bit conflicted as I understand why you have done this
but scientifically, I would have expected a primary analysis/results based on a NMA estimates with
discussion around why this might have not been robust. This is also important as the results are
expected to be updated once new data are available.
Minor edits:
- Runaway sentence from a previous version of the SR looking at prevention:
“Outcomes of interest for prophylaxis of COVID-19 include mortality, infection with COVID-19,
hospitalization, adverse events leading to discontinuation, and time to symptom resolution or clinical
improvement.”
- Sentence needs writing in the past tense:
“We will use a plausible prior for variance parameter, and uniform prior for the effect parameter
suggested by Turner et al based on empiric data.”
- When explaining in the methods their use of absolute measures of risk:
“For all other outcomes, we used the mean or median from all studies in which participants received
standard of care for each outcome.”
Please explain how you pooled the data for the means (simple addition?).
