BMJ -2019- 049773
(Thyroid replacement therapy, thyroid stimulating hormone levels and long-term health
outcomes in patients with hypothyroidism: a longitudinal study)
Hypothyroidism affects a great number of patients. It is also very topical with many
patients worried about the long-term use of replacement therapies and evidence-based
outcomes. It is very disappointing that no actual patients were consulted and involved in
this study.
Prevalence for this form of thyroid disease has increased considerably in recent years. In
the UK this may be due to the introduction of Hypothyroidism as a clinical indicator in
Q.O.F. (Quality and Outcome Framework) as this may have improved diagnosis and
recording. Prevalence increased from an average of 2.3% in the introductory year
(2004/05) to an average of 3.5% in 2015. The Hypothyroid clinical indicators have now
been withdrawn from QOF but GPs were paid for adherence to the indicators during their
existence which were as follows:

THY001: The Contractor establishes and maintains a register of patients with
hypothyroidism who are currently treated with levothyroxine.
THY002: The percentage of patients with hypothyroidism on the register with thyroid
function tests recorded in the preceding 12 months.
Since the retirement of these indicators it is difficult to get a more up to date disease
prevalence for Hypothyroidism for General Practice patients. It would be interesting to see
if the increase in UK prevalence continues to increase since their removal from Q.O.F.
The diagnostic increase could also be attributed to Q.O.F. and the ongoing
recommendation of TFT (thyroid function test) monitoring of patients on certain
medications and other diseases in the clinical domain e.g. Learning Difficulties, Dementia
etc.
Disease registers are created from diagnostic Read codes, as in this study, or CTV3 codes
which are sometimes entered by non-clinicians or sometimes erroneously entered when
the diagnosis is suspected rather than when it is actually confirmed. Also, as some patients
feel better or improve on levothyroxine, despite their TSH not being strictly diagnostic,
some Clinicians allow them to remain on the Hypothyroid register.
There is also the fact that hypothyroid patients do not have to pay for any prescriptions
(not just their thyroid replacement) and is therefore attractive to the English patient who
may otherwise have to pay. The anomaly does not always become apparent as per QOF
this patient does have annual thyroid blood test and so as far as the data base is
concerned is classed as accurate. Some patients do not always take their tablets and the
blood test does not flag up any problem and therefore the anomaly continues undetected
and the disease register and prevalence not strictly correct.
However, the trend of rise of Hypothyroidism is a global phenomenon and therefore of
great international interest.
This is a retrospective, longitudinal study, with data collected from THIN (The Health
Improvement Network) using electronic patient records from UK GP Practices using VISION
software from 01/01/1995 - 31/12/2017. Most references to THIN’s data base are from
2000 so I wonder how the early data was collected as General Practice in the 1990’s was
not renowned for data collection but the later outcomes post introduction of QOF in 2004,
would be more apparent e.g. IHD (CHD) HF, Stroke/TIA, AF, Frailty fractures
(Osteoporosis) which were all part of future QOF and so data would be more likely to be
recorded. Mortality has always been recorded.

The study population was collated from a data base of 15 million patients registered with
787 GP Practices.
In this study longitudinal TSH from diagnosis to outcomes, end of study or loss to follow up
were searched on. Patients were identified by Read code for Hypothyroidism. 1,930
patients without a baseline TSH and no subsequent TSH were excluded, as were those with
any of the outcome diseases.
162,369 adult patients with 863,072 TSH measurements were identified.
Increased mortality was observed in both the lowest and highest TSH categories and an
increase in risk of fragility fractures was observed in patients in the highest TSH category
(>10ml/U/L.
Query – Were hypothyroid patients who had diagnosis of Osteoporosis, osteopenia and
subsequent abnormal DEXA results
highlighted?

However, their conclusion was “In patients with a diagnosis of hypothyroidism we observed
no evidence to support a different pattern of long-term health outcomes (all-cause
mortality, AF, IHD, HF, Stroke/TIA, fractures) when TSH levels were within current
recommended normal limits. There is evidence of adverse health outcomes when TSH is
outside this range, particularly above the upper reference value”
Query: The reference to current recommended normal limits may have altered over the
duration of this study but this is not commented on?
Also, some laboratories use different reference levels, were all the TSH samples used in
this study tested at the same laboratory?
From current NICE Hypothyroid guidelines “Long term consequences of hypothyroidism
include cardiovascular disease and increase in cardiovascular risk factors including
hypercholesterolaemia.”
The authors would be aware of the latter quote and I wonder why they did not include
Cholesterol results and type of statin medication in the study.
NICE also state “Data on long term consequences of subclinical thyroid dysfunction have
been largely derived from population aged more than 65 years. They include increased
Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, increased risk of Osteoporosis and potential links
to dementia”
The authors of this study concluded “This study provides strong support for the current
recommendations regarding the Clinical management of hypothyroid patients and
validation with hard evidence for the latest guidelines”
It is surprising that the American Thyroid Association was used as the authors’ main
reference whereas QOF indicators are referenced through NICE (National Institute of
Clinical Excellence) and the patients’ data used is from the English data base, THIN (The
Health Improvement Network)
It is also interesting that one of the Co-authors Dr Kristien Boelart is now Clinical Lead for
NICE Guidelines on Thyroid Disease.
NICE is currently involved in updating these guidelines and they are using patients in draft
guidance consultation questions on Managing Primary Hypothyroidism (3.5) for example
sub category questions
3.1 What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of using levothyroxine
(L-T4) liothyronine (L-T3), combination of L-T4 & L-T3 and
thyroid extracts to treat primary hypothyroidism?
3.2 How should hypothyroidism be monitored?
5.1 What is the clinical and cost effectiveness of treating subclinical
Hypothyroidism?
5.3 How should subclinical thyroid dysfunction be monitored?
6.0 What information should people with thyroid disease, their
family and carer’s receive?
Also, more pertinently in their section 3.6 Main Outcomes
1 Quality of Life
2. Mortality
3. Resource Use
4. Adverse effects of treatment
All of the above the patients will be able to give their experiences and concerns and help
determine something they have a vested interest in to help accomplish something
worthwhile.

It is therefore very disappointing that no patients were involved in this study and
prevented the authors from helping with the validity of their conclusion.
The authors and co-authors are very knowledgeable and have been involved in many
studies some may have even used the same rich data base as this study
For example,
Real World Evidence THIN-KINGROUP Dr Krishnarajah Nirantharakumar who is also a
fellow of HDRUK (Health Data Research UK) who actually have a Public Advisory Board.
“Prevalence and relative risk of other autoimmune diseases in subjects with autoimmune
thyroid disease. Dr K. Boelart
“Stroke and Diabetes a dangerous liason – Christopher Sainsbury who concluded that
ischaemic stroke is doubled in patients who have diabetes.
Barbara Torlinska whose primary interest is focused on cardiometabolic effects of
endocrine system dysfunction
Prof. G. N. Thomas & Dr Kris Nirantharakumar “Metabolically Healthy Obese Women and
Incident Cardiovascular Disease events among 3.5 million men and women” The study
concluded that obese individuals had higher risk of CHD, cerebrovascular disease and Heart
Failure than normal weight patients. Even individuals who are normal weight can have
metabolic abnormalities and similar risks for cardiovascular disease events.”
The knowledge the authors would have acquired from their previous studies could have
helped with improving this study.
As a non-statistician I found the result tables a little confusing. Timeframe breakdown
would have been useful, smaller groups with more meaningful TSH results over time
mapped with outcomes to see if correlation.
13.7 % of patients died during follow up but the actual age of those who had died and
cause of death was not shown.
I would have liked to have known the following in a more simple format.
• How long the patients had been receiving thyroid replacement
therapy and what dose, had it been quite high initially?
• How long the patients’ TSH results were high or low?
• Had the patients previously been Hyperthyroid and for how long before being
diagnosed as Hypothyroid? Could this have contributed to future AF?
• What other medication were the patients taking e.g. Liothyroxine, what statins and dose?
• What co-morbidities, relevant FH (Family History IHD, Stroke, AF, Familial
Hypercholesterolaemia etc)?
• Cause of death, age of death
• Better breakdown of ages not just <65 or >65 yrs of age
(mean (SD) age of hypothyroid patients was 58.43(17.15)
• More comment on other contributory factors e.g, smoking, obesity, smoking, HT
(hypertension) DM (Diabetes mellitus)
For example:
IHD patients recorded were
If exclude those obese >30Kg
smokers
hypertensive
diabetic

145,161
38,029
22,934
37,269
11,846

which then leaves residue of IHD
35,083
(this figure does not include missing data)
missing BMI 18,001
missing smoking status 5,637

Also 162,369 adult patients with 863,072 TSH measurements were identified. On first
assessment this equates to an average of only just over 5 TSH results per patient over
22year period. However, this is perhaps due to median follow up of only 6 years.
Query: Why was it decided that only 6 years follow up would be used. The fact that there
was such a rich THIN data base there could have been more data to observe longer term
outcomes.
Obviously, some patients will have been diagnosed towards the end of the study but
considering QOF came into existence in 2004 and hypothyroid patients were to have
annual TSH result recorded as well as there will have been some patients whose results
warranted more than 1 annual TSH this seems a very low amount for such a large disease
register.
Although the Authors acknowledge some of the limitations of the study, they have not
addressed all of the weaknesses and so their assumption of “relatively confident that the
results reflect a true effect” may appear a little over overconfident.
Rodondi N et al “Subclinical hypothyroidism and risk of CHD”
stated “The Birmingham study was excluded from the analyses because of lack of data on
cardiovascular risk”
However, as the authors’ no 23 ref. re Blak B “Generalisability of The Health Improvement
Network (THIN) database, demographics, chronic disease prevalence and mortality risk”
gives a more positive conclusion regarding the generalisability of the data on disease
prevalence and mortality.
In conclusion I cannot help but feel the talented authors of this study have missed an
opportunity to dig deeper and could have searched on more data detail and other possible
causes of outcomes to perhaps reach a more accurately useful result.
The lack of patient input is disappointing. As the authors themselves state “Hypothyroidism
is highly prevalent and can substantially impact patient wellbeing” Therefore it would have
been an ideal opportunity to consult them. After all it is hypothyroid patients and their
possible future health that are at the heart of this study.
Sadly, this study reads more like a data analysis exercise from their well-used database
and not what one would expect from the authors’ expertise.
Hopefully these results will be fed back to the Patient and Public group at Birmingham
University who have been used in previous studies. As the results are not presented in a
“lay format” they would need to be explained. According to their website there is a Patient
and Public Involvement Bulletin available and there are also PPI workshops available this
year.
I am sure any future studies conducted by the Authors will involve patients which should
help to improve health outcomes for the patients they are studying and wish to help.
Amanda Brewster
HAPPI group
Ref.
NICE guidelines
Q.O.F.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Amanda Brewster
Job Title: Chair
Institution: HAPPI (Healthier Ageing Patient & Public Involvement) Group
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

