The authors have been generally responsive to critiques and have improved the content of
their analysis. In particular, they have added an interaction term to their multivariable
analysis which separates out the main effect by categories of historical opioid exposure. The
retrospective nature of the data prevents strong conclusions about cause and effect between
opioid cessation and suicide/overdose-related mortality; however, the authors have been
transparent about these issues in the discussion and I believe are fair in their interpretation.
There is one issue that was not adequately addressed. My prior review indicated a need to
provide statistical information concerning the model assumptions of their proportional
hazards model (major critique #4). I was not alone in this critique as the statistical reviewer
(reviewer #5) asked the authors to “…provide evidence that the relevant assumptions for
these models {in reference to Cox models} are adequate.” The authors did not provide this
information and instead replied to my critique (and in a similar fashion to reviewer #5) that
“We updated the analyses and corrected the description of the model to indicate that it is a
survival analysis and not a proportional hazards model”. First, this explanation is inadequate
at face value because the term “survival analysis” refers to a family of statistical approaches
and does not identify any one statistical approach; that is, stating that one did “survival
analysis” is insufficient – what kind of survival analysis was done? Moreover, it seems that
their findings are based on a proportional hazards model. First, the original submission draft
described their analysis as using Cox proportional hazards regression – the reviewers didn’t
make this up – did they incorrectly characterize their analysis the last time or did they make
a change to the modeling approach for the revision? The current draft states the authors
used SAS procedure PHREG to conduct the multivariable analysis; where this procedure is
specifically used for conducting proportional hazards regression (PHREG = Proportional
Hazards REGression). The model results are presented as hazards ratios, which is the output
of a proportional hazards model. Finally, the parameter estimates from the multivariable
analysis presented in the original draft Table 3 and the current Appendix 3 are very similar,
suggesting the same basic statistical approach was used between drafts and was not
changed in response to the review. Thus, I’m perplexed by this answer to the critique, but
would certainly defer to a statistical reviewer if they are familiar with some sort of “survival
analysis” which can be performed using SAS procedure PHREG and generates hazard ratios
but isn’t considered a proportional hazards model. And if so, the authors should name that
statistical approach (and defend and reference if it is atypical), as well as provide any
necessary evidence for satisfying the assumptions inherent to that modeling approach.