This is an important paper that draws out WHO's ambition to signal a new point of
departure for self-care. The upcoming publication of normative guidance for
self-care interventions will posit the WHO as the global champion for self-care and
this is commendable. However, it may be a challenge to propose evidence based
guidelines that could apply in all contexts (i.e rural setting in Africa), as evidence of
effectiveness of self-care interventions is scarce is resource poor settings.
I make the following observations/recommendations for the consideration of authors
as itemized below:
GENERAL COMMENTS
1- It may be useful for the authors to consider including reference to commonly
cited self-care theories and conceptions (e.g. Orem's Theory of Nursing Deficit, the 7
Pillars of Self-Care framework, the Self-Care Continuum model etc., ) to mitigate the
risk of the manuscript being too WHO focused.
2- It was mentioned in the ABSTRACT (p3, Line 17) and KEY MESSAGES (p14. Line
9) that ‘self-care interventions may exacerbate inequalities’. It would be helpful to
clarify, or to give an example of how a misappropriated self-care intervention might
exacerbate inequalities.
MANUSCRIPT/TEXT
p.3:27- Introduce (SRHR) abbreviation
p.4:24- Consider using ‘promotion of health & well-being’ instead of ‘health
promotion’ only
p5:38- Please update reference as it is showing (Error. Reference Source not found)
message in PDF proof
p6:7- Consider expanding the term to ‘assisted or professional care’ as opposed to
‘professional care’ only.
P6:52 - p.7:10 This may be an appropriate section to cite/reference a small selection
of commonly used self-care models (e.g. Orem’s theory of nursing deficit).
P8:10 Perhaps the example can be expanded to include erectile dysfunction. For
example self-management of erectile dysfunction and abortion...
P12:10 Consider supplanting ‘good’ quality with ‘acceptable’ quality
P13:16 Consider concluding the sentence with self-care ‘as a cross-cutting theme’
P14.9 Consider starting the sentence with ‘Misappropriated’ self-care interventions
may lead…
END.