The vast majority of the epidemiological literature examining the associations of physical
activity (PA) and mortality outcomes relies on a single baseline measurement of the
exposure. This can be problematic for several reasons. This manuscript describes a set of
analyses that used a regional UK cohort dataset that is part of the established EPIC cohort.

The primary aim of the analyses was to examine the associations between trajectories of
PA and three major mortality outcomes (all-cause, CVD, cancer). The study is of relatively
modest size (in cohort study terms) but it has several major strengths to mitigate against
this , including the availability of three assessment of the PA exposure over a 10 year
period, a long follow up past the 10 year assessment (up to 13 years), and an elaborate
analytic strategy that includes calculation of percentage of deaths averted attributed to
different PA trajectories. Although most of the manuscript is written in a clear and
accessible for a medical journal readership, the main weaknesses of the study are a)
somewhat muddy and occasionally unnecessarily complicated description of the physical
activity measuring methods, and b) the lack of exhaustive measures taken to minimise the
possibility of reverse causation.
I have a number of suggestions for improving the manuscript grouped by manuscript
section. I labelled the ones I consider more important as “MAJOR COMMENT”:
TITLE
1)
The title is unusually long and much of it is superfluous. It is rather unusual to list
in the title the potential confounders the models were adjusted for. All studies adjust for
potential confounders and although the availability of time-varying covariates is positive one
might argue that it’s that not that earth shattering to deserve to be in the title. “Increasing
physical activity trajectories protect against cardiovascular, cancer and all-cause mortality
over up to x [maximum follow up length ] years” would be more appropriate and would
highlight an actual strength of the study, its long follow up (past the 10 years the PA
trajectories cover).
ABSTRACT
2)
The Abstract conclusions is far too long-winded while important info that will enable
better appreciation of the study findings is missing - see comments below.
3)
The Participants section in the abstract is unclear and may confuse some readers –
it could be rephrased for clarity.
4)
The abstract should clearly state that PAEE was estimated from
self-reported/questionnaire- based PA measurements.
5)
It would also be helpful to mention what is the definition of “inactive”, what is the
“upper WHO recommendation”, and what an “increase” is.
6)
The wording of the last sentence of the abstract results may make many readers
think that this is interpretation of population attributable fraction analyses. It would be
best to briefly describe the method used to calculate % of deaths averted in one sentence,
7)
The exposure terminology in the abstract could be more consistent, it keeps
switching between PAEE and “physical activity”. Is it PA or is it PAEE?

INTRODUCTION
8)
The last sentence of the introduction is unnecessary, it is material for the strengths
section of the discussion.
METHODS
9)
The description of the study population is thorough and clear but I find the last
sentence a little confusing. A regional cohort with 45% response rate that is 99·5%
Caucasians is not representative of the UK population of 40-79 year olds. There is no
need for cherry picking sample characteristics that happen to be roughly similar to the UK
average and flag the cohort as “UK-representative”. I the lack of representativeness is a
major issue for this kind of analysis – removing that sentence (which means a little anyway)
would not do any harm.
10)
Given that there are quite a few time points involved, a simple time flow diagram
(from baseline to most recent censor date) would help the reader to appreciate the study
design better.

11)
P7, lines 53-54: adding “…as the criterion method” at the end of the sentence would
add clarity.
12)
I assume “marginalised values” mean that the resting energy expenditure was
deducted from total EE to give PAEE? Some explanation would help. Some more
explanation on how PAEE was calculated in general would be helpful.
13)
MAJOR COMMENT: The descriptions of the EPIC-PAQ questionnaire and how it
relates to the previous calibration publication are confusing. The instrument described in
the methods does not seem to be the same (or is described in a very different way) with the
instrument the calibration study reference 12 describes. For example, (from the Peters,
Brage, et al. Eur J Epidemiol 2012 paper – reference 12): “ Question two interrogates
participation in several activities (walking, cycling, do-it-yourself [DIY], gardening, sports,
and household chores) during both summer and winter, the third question asks about
participation in vigorous non-occupational activities, and the fourth question assesses the
number of floors of stairs climbed up per day, all referencing the past year.” In the current
manuscript the description is very basic and/or incomplete and/or indicates that the authors
made use of selected variables of EPIQ-PAQ only: “The second open-ended question asked
about time spent in hours per week on recreational activities, cycling, and other physical
exercise or sports, separately for winter and summer”. Were domestic activities and stair
climbing , for example, excluded from the calculations? The wording used in implies that
only recreational PA was included. Please clarify if the PA questionnaire data used in these
analyses were derived from an instrument identical to the one used in the individual PAEE
calibration 2012 study (ref 12)? If not, the individual calibration study and the total PAEE
Spearman validity coefficients reported here may not be relevant. If this is the case, the
consequences of excluding certain variables from total PAEE need to be discussed fully.
14)
In addition to more transparent descriptions it may be a good idea to put the
EPIC-PAQ questions used for these analyses in the online appendix (plus the full
questionnaire used in the calibration study, if this is different).
15)
Please add brief descriptions of the covariates (alcohol, education, social class, etc).
16)
The method used to calculate percentage of deaths averted needs some more
explanation and it would be nice to add a reference that describes it in full detail. Were the
mortality rates “adjusted” in the sense that took into account predicted risk of outcome
occurrence?
17)
MAJOR COMMENT: The fact that these analyses involve time varying exposures and
covariates does not make them less prone to reverse causation. For example, participants
with CVD/cancer at the 1993-1997 baseline may be more likely to stay inactive/have a
downward PA trajectory and die during or past the 10-yr follow as a consequence of their
health status, which could to spurious associations. Also, participants with
sub-clinical/prodromal/undiagnosed disease at the 1993-1997 baseline may experience
symptoms that will lead to lower PA will undoubtedly be more likely to experience an event
over the 10 year period. How were these possibilities accounted for in the analyses?
18)
MAJOR COMMENT: Measures against reverse causation could have been more
comprehensive. The authors have adjusted for baseline diagnosed CVD and cancer (which
is known to be an incomplete measure against reverse causality) and excluded participants
who died during the first year past the 10-year follow up. Although I suspect that the
authors retained participants with prevalent CVD/cancer to prevent shrinkage of the
sample size, a set of sensitivity analyses excluding them would add robustness to the
findings. Also, it is common practice (and appropriate for these analyses – follow up is long
enough) to exclude events occurring in at least the first 2 years of follow up. Considering
that the exposure is the 10-year PA trajectories, incident disease (CVD/cancer) occurring
during this period must be accounted for. It is not mentioned anywhere in the manuscript
how such cases were treated.

19)
A CONSORT-like sample flowchart describing all these details would be very
helpful. This could be combined with the study timeline diagram I suggested above, as the
authors see fit.
20)
Sub-group analyses for non-standard characteristics need to be justified. No
rationale (in the introduction or methods) is provided for the predefined adiposity subgroups
analysis. If adiposity was hypothesised to be an effect modifier it should be explained how
the authors arrived at this hypothesis. Age and sex subgroup analyses are standard and do
not need justification.
RESULTS
21)
The presentation of estimates for both baseline PAEE and ΔPAEE is a strength of the
study. Comparing the two sets of estimates (Table 2, Figure 1) shows that there is little
difference for CVD and all-cause mortality. This could be discussed more.
22)
Figure 2 is excellent; conveys the most important data of this study in a very clear
way and nicely reveals the value of PA trajectories.
DISCUSSION
23)
P15, lines214-215: the terminology used implies isotemporal substitution, these
analyses did not calculate substitution effects. Also, 40-mins brisk walking PER DAY?
24)
Comparison with existing literature section: this is largely consumed with explaining
why this study is not comparable with previous literature. This would be more of interest to
an epidemiology or PA journal readership; perhaps less so to a medical journal readership.
All this could be summarised in 2-3 sentences. Instead, the study also reports baseline PA
estimates, how do these compare with the large PA literature available?
25)
MAJOR COMMENT: P20, first paragraph. The potential for causal inference discussion
needs to be updated to take into account the findings of the sensitivity analyses that exclude
prevalent CVD at baseline and incident disease over the 10-yr period the trajectories cover.
