This article tried to summarize the existed researches and find the relationship between
dietary sodium reduction and blood pressure levels, which is a hot topic. However, here are
some questions that should be addressed.
1. A previous meta-analysis (He FJ, et al. BMJ. 2013 Apr 3;346:f1325. doi:
10.1136/bmj.f1325.) has proved the effect of longer term modest salt reduction on blood
pressure. The current study drew the same finding, and the study also pointed out that there
was limited evidence that the effects of sodium reduction on blood pressure increased with
intervention duration.
2. Page 5, Line 68: There are two “4)” and the second one should be “5)”, please check it.
3. Page 5, Line 84-87: Whether there has any reference supports the calculation methods in
crossover studies?
4. Page 6, Line 92-93: What is your assumption foundation (reasons)?
5. Page 6, Line 97-101：What’s the effect sizes of the current meta-analysis?
6. Page 6, Line 93-95: Where is the result of sensitivity analyses using different levels of
correlation coefficients from 0.1 to 0.9 with 0.1 increments?
7. Page 7, Line 127-134：The proportion of the missing data was relatively large in each
variable, it’s improper to fill with the mean value when conducting meta-regression.
8. Page 8, Line 160-167：The results of dose-response relationship were not found in the
meta-analysis of trials by quintile of achieved sodium reduction, and also in the univariable
meta-regression analyses. The results were only significant in the multivariable
meta-regression, but the methods of handing missing data was controversial as mentioned
above, so the results and conclusion of dose-response relationship were disputable.
9. Please explain the asymmetry of funnel plots.
10. Whether other factors of blood pressure measurement (morning or evening, sitting or
lying) affect the results? It seems impossible all studies test the blood pressure at the same
way.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Yu Jiang
Job Title: Professor
Institution: School of Public Health, Chinese Academy of Medical Science & Peking Union
Medical College
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 5
Recommendation:
