This paper describes a study of the potential impacts of England’s Sugar Reduction
Strategy on child and adult weight change and on adult disease burden and costs. It
applies a bespoke PRIMEtime CE model developed to model the cost-effectiveness of
population-level approaches aimed at improving diet and physical activity. Results
show great promise for substantial health and QALY benefits, particularly for women,
but only if the approaches proposed by the Strategy are fully implemented by food
manufacturers. This is a well-written paper that provides a quantification of the
health and cost impact of a major policy-level determinant of obesity. A few
comments are provided for the authors to consider.
Results
The results presented in the tables are particularly striking in showing a larger
impact among women, in terms of both the health burden and cost consequences.
The potential gender differences, and also similarities, between women and men are
masked when result in the main text are given as an overall ‘mean’ which really has
no substantive meaning. Given that women have been historically excluded from
medical research and the apparent greater benefit that women could have from such
a structural intervention as this Sugar Reduction Strategy, the authors are strongly
encouraged to report all their results in the main text separately for women and
men.
In light of the above, is there a particular reason why prostate cancer was not
included in the analysis while breast cancer was?

Discussion
Since many results, particularly economic, were most notable for women, the paper
could be strengthened by some discussion of why this might be or what the
implications for gender equity might be if the Strategy failed/succeeded. As an
example, the sensitivity analysis of the failure of the sales weighting approach
showed that all the losses fell on women which deserves some attention in the
Discussion.
Similarly, the suggestion that industry might ‘game’ the Strategy by rebranding
products to ‘sharing’ size is quite likely to have gender-specific effects that will be
disproportionately negative for women who predominantly are tasked with the role
of food procurement and whose dietary behaviours may be especially influenced by
the gender norm of ‘sharing’ or by the social dimension of eating more so than men.
It is not clear how helpful is the final paragraph on health inequalities given that the
issue is outside the scope of the paper and is a large complex topic in its own right.
Perhaps this text could be replaced with more specific attention to the gender-based
differences that resulted from this particular analysis.
Conclusion
The statement about the failure of sugar reduction mechanisms having healthcare
benefits that were disproportionate to their direct calorie benefits is somewhat
unclear in terms of what is meant by this and it is also difficult to identify how the
results reported in Table 4 support this statement.
It’s unclear how the final sentence of the conclusion follows from the results or what
the authors mean by it. Given that the Sugar Reduction Strategy is a policy-level
intervention for the whole of England, how would this strategy not be directly
targeting adult diet? Was the Sugar Reduction Strategy only aimed at children’s food
items and beverages? If so, this needs to be stated more clearly earlier on in the
paper. Or, do the authors mean to suggest that other policy-level interventions are
needed for adults such as those that address the economic determinants of diet?
Minor comments:
Page 14, Table 2: the format of this table does not read easily as it is quite awkward
to have horizontal text in the left most column but all the numerical values related
to each age and gender are vertical. Revising the placement of the title and
amending the table to be a ‘long’ format with the relevant outcomes to the left
would be more intuitive if the values need to be left as is.
Page 14, Table 2: 18-80 years should be 19-80 years as per main text
Page 14, Table 2: please add a note to explain why there are no values for <=18
years for calories reduced from non-sugar nutrients and total sugar and non-sugar
calorie reduction and for weight change based on sugar and non-sugar.
Page 15, line 40-41: a word seems missing regarding the weight impact, perhaps it
is meant to read as: “an average reduction of 1.7 kg”?
Page 17, Table 3: the negative signs for many values appear on a separate line and
so, at a quick glance, there is an impression that many outcomes increased which is
not the case. Perhaps the font can be made slightly smaller, or the table larger, so
that the sign is next to a given value for ease of reading and avoiding
mis-interpretation.
Page 20, line 6-7: Data sharing text seems more relevant to the Methods section
than just before the Discussion, unless its placement is a BMJ specific format
requirement.
Page 20, line 19: again, the age range should be 19-80 year-olds (not 18-80) as 18
year-olds are included in the group of 11-18 y.
Page 22, line 30: replace “can’t” with “cannot”.

I hope the authors find these comments helpful. Thank you, Dr. Annalijn I. Conklin
