Cerani et al examined whether genetically increased serum calcium was associated with
improved bone mineral density and a reduction in osteoporotic fractures. They used a
two-sample Mendelian randomization approach with 61,079 and 426,824 individuals in first

and second stage, respectively. They also performed a meta-analysis with 23 cohorts and
UK Biobank including a total of 76,549 cases and 470,164 controls. They found that higher
genetically-derived serum calcium was not associated with increased bone mineral density
or reduced risk of fractures. The authors conclude that widespread calcium
supplementation in the general population may provide more risk than benefit.
The manuscript is well-written, interesting and thoroughly done. The authors add a number
of relevant sensitivity analyses and good argumentation/discussion. The conclusion is
straight forward.
Besides, I have the following comments:
1)

The authors write:

“While the large majority of individuals in the fracture study were of European ancestry,
~1% of individuals were of Asian descent. Thus, small effects of population stratification
cannot be entirely ruled out.”
This is a very important point, and I believe the authors should include participants of
European descent only. Otherwise, the analyses will be prone to bias.
2)
Please discuss what the low participation rate in the UK Biobank could mean for
the results and their interpretation.
3)
Please discuss the implications and limitations of using two-sample MR instead of
one-sample MR?
4)

The authors write:

“We modeled the effect of a one standard deviation genetically-derived increase in serum
calcium on eBMD and fracture. We therefore compared this one standard deviation
increase to the magnitude of increase in serum calcium levels after calcium
supplementation. To do so, we used data from a recent randomized cross-over trial of
calcium supplementation45.”
“The estimated associations of genetically predicted serum calcium with eBMD and odds of
fracture were expressed with respect to one standard deviation (1 SD) increase in serum
calcium levels, which is equivalent to 0.51 mg/dL or 0.13 mmol/L. This standard deviation
equivalence was derived from serum calcium’s pooled variance calculation involving the 30
cohorts reported in O'Seaghdha et al.33 and included in the serum calcium GWAS.”
“A one standard deviation increase in genetically predicted serum calcium includes the
increase in serum calcium that would be anticipated after calcium supplementation45 66.
This suggests that widespread efforts to use calcium supplements in the general population
for long periods of time are unlikely to have any significant effect on bone health
outcomes.”
Why not use an increase comparable to the RCT in addition to the standard deviation? It is
not clear to me why it is justified to translate the standard deviation into an amount from a
different RCT.
5)

The authors write:

“Individual MR estimates from the 6 independent serum calcium-associated SNPs were
calculated using the Wald method46.”
Why not use a simple or a weighted score (in addition)?

6)

The authors write:

“The selected SNPs collectively explained 0.77% of the variance in total serum calcium
levels22.”
What was the F-value?
7)
why?

Please describe the meta-analyses, e.g., were they fixed or random effects and

Yours sincerely,
Tea Skaaby
