Thank you for the opportunity to look over this paper from a patient perspective.
It is commonly assumed that T2D is largely a condition of age and lifestyle rather
than a genetic condition, and therefore there is a perception that sufferers often
have themselves to blame due to their poor diets. Here, dietary fat and genetic risk
are seen to be largely independent of one another and so ultimately, as I understand
it, this paper serves to underline the need for taking more responsibility with our
diets, irrespective of genetic risk. I never really thought before about the role fats
could play in this, and so I found the paper took an interesting perspective.
Abstract
Lines 154 – 159 describe the context as polyunsaturated fats replacing
carbohydrates – but very often dietary advice seems to focus on replacing refined
carbs with unrefined carbs etc. Marketing of supposedly ‘healthier’ food products
has included substitution of polyunsaturated fats for saturated fats (eg. Plant-based
spreads versus butter). Obviously, I’ve heard of the Atkins diet, but is replacement
of carbohydrates with fats a realistic/desirable scenario in most ‘ordinary’ diets?
Introduction
You could further underline the vast problem posed by the diabetes epidemic by
expressing its prevalence in % terms. The global prevalence is currently 8.5% of
the population, but differs by country/region (e.g. c. 9% in Europe with wide
variation between countries, with Turkey and Portugal and even Germany doing
worse than others) and is rising greatly in Africa, South East Asia. As well as rising
across all age groups.
Should there be more emphasis on the novelty of this study? As I understand it,
although there has been much investigation into the effects of diet on the risk of
diabetes, focus has been on caloric intake and avoiding obesity and much dietary
advice for diabetics tends to focus on avoiding weight gain, reducing sugar
intake/controlling carbohydrates, than on altering the other major dietary
components, notably fat which has higher calorific content per gram. Interaction
with genes and the prospect of ‘tailored’ approaches to healthcare based on that is a
growing area of investigation.
The introduction refers to the uncertainty surrounding benefits of increasing
monounsaturated fats (MUFAs) in place of carbs and there is no reference to PUFAs
in the introduction. In the main body of the text polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) are
linked to benefits.
Methods
It is not clear to me why the study focused so greatly on patients of European origin.
I think that needs to be clarified to make it seem less racially biased. I assume
because data on patients of European origin is more abundant than for other racial
groups. The authors are uncertain that the messages in this paper should be
transferable to patients of other ethnicities? WHO indicates that T2D is up to six
times more common in people of South Asian descent and up to three times more
common among those of African and African-Caribbean origin. Diabetes is on the
increase in for instance India and it could be interesting to look at the Indian diet
which contains not only a lot of ‘bad’ carbohydrate (white rice), but a lot of fat –

notably ghee made from cow’s milk but traditionally from buffalo milk – but also
coconut etc. Some studies indicate that Indians develop T2D at a younger age and
a lower BMI. Is the issue simply too much carbohydrate/sugar or is fat intake also a
factor?
Patient involvement
Line 314 refers to patients in the context of advice. I would not expect patient
subjects to advise on interpretation. However, I am concerned that the study
authors state explicitly, not only that there is no intention to create an impact on
study participants (reasonable), but none on the wider patient community. Given
the magnitude of this disease, a strong rationale for this study is surely to create an
impact on the patient community at large.
Sure, there will be others, e.g. public health organisations who can take something
from this. The dietary message seems to have some importance from my point of
view, i.e. to think more carefully about other aspects of diet besides the
carbohydrate/sugar component.
Are we coming closer to knowing what an ideal ‘balanced’ anti-T2D diet should look
like in terms of fat versus carbohydrate versus protein content?
Results
Nearly 20% of the participants in this study developed T2D which is something
worth underlining. This of course means that in spite of any inherent genetic risk
the vast majority did not develop the condition. Again, underlying the importance of
diet in controlling/preventing onset of this disease.
More detailed dietary fat info would be desirable. Would it be possible to have
spelled out what the authors consider to be types of PUFA, MUFA etc. Are all MUFAs
equally bad? Under MUFAs, I understand that there are some fats that have long
been considered by many consumers ‘good fats’ such as olive oil, avocados, nuts
etc. Yet we see that increased intake of MUFAs in place of carbohydrates is
associated with an increase in T2D risk. Does this finding fit with some debunking of
hype surrounding the supposed health benefits of olive oil? Or is it more a case of
all things in moderation.
Lines 371 – 376 are tantalising given that the incidence of T2D is rising in younger
age groups. This suggests the earlier the intervention the better in terms of dietary
changes. There appears to be some evidence for genetic risk making a difference to
the way in which individuals responded to increases in PUFA in younger age groups.
The fact that outcomes are better for the lower risk groups compared to the higher
risk groups from the dietary changes is suggestive of potential benefits from
genetically-tailored dietary advice.
Discussion
I do not see any problem in this study with the lack of specificity in identifying a
precise genetic risk and the use of a ‘proxy’ of overall T2D genetic risk. Nor do I see
any problem with the fact that any interactions between genes and diet may have
been ‘attenuated’ by the complexity/difficulty of picking apart the sub-types of fats
in the ‘food matrix’. Possibly the authors were disappointed there was not a
stronger association between genetic risk and dietary fat content. The authors
indicate the existence of genes relating to fat metabolism (426/427) and I wonder
about the possibility of investigating these interactions, albeit with the possibility of
‘only’ explaining a small portion of the phenotype, although I appreciate the
difficulty with isolating and disentangling the specific effects of very specialised
genes against a background of complex factors.
The important fact is (re-)established that dietary changes are relevant irrespective
of genetic risk, i.e. “Taken together, these findings support lifestyle or dietary
interventions for T2D to be deployed across all gradients of genetic risk in the
population, as genetic burden does not seem to impede their effectiveness”.
Line 435 “in the next future”: should this be “in the near future”?
In my opinion, the authors have missed an opportunity to at least touch on how the
results could affect public health messages about diet and its role in mitigating the
risk of diabetes.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Dr Sophie Bennett
Job Title: Patient Reviewer
Institution: N/A
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-check
lists/declaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy)
</a>please declare them here:

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
