Although the proposed article has been improved and shortened, in my opinion
additional revisions are still required as follows:
1. page 3, lines 20-24. It is inaccurate to suggest that either compulsory licenses or
parallel importation can be used only cases of national emergency or other
circumstances of extreme urgency or in cases of public non-commercial use." There
is an exception to required prior negotiations in such cases for compulsory licenses
(plus an additional exception for competition-based licenses), but there are no such
restrictions whatsoever on parallel importation. Compulsory licenses, the main
subject of the article, are available on any inventions, including any medicine, on
any grounds specified by the granting country.
2. p 3, ll. 37-47. To further shorten the article and to retain its focus, I believe this
discussion of parallel importation should be dropped. Moreover, as I discussed in a
comment on the earlier draft, international exhaustion can occur not only when the
patent holder first puts the product on the market, but also when it authorizes
(licenses) another to do so. An even more generous interpretation, adopted in
Kenya, allows parallel importation whenever the product has been lawfully placed on
the market, which would include circumstances where a compulsory license had
been issued.
3. p. 3, l. 35. "India" not "Indie".
4. p. 5, ll. 35-36. I do not believe that there are any significant differences between
the Paragraph 6 Waiver of 30 August 2003 and Article 31 bis other than preambular
differences. The text of Article 31 bis can be found at:
https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/trips_e/wtl641_e.htm; the text of the 30
August Decision can be found at:
https://www.wto.org/english/tratop_e/trips_e/implem_para6_e.htm. I think the
sentence on differences, including the citation, could be stricken.
5. p. 5, ll. 36-38. Under Article 31 bis, it is misleading to say that countries can
issue "a compulsory license together." Where there are patents in both the
importing and exporting countries, two compulsory licenses must be issued - one in
the importing country naming the foreign generic licensee(s) and one in the
exporting country listing those same licensees. The authors could say that the
countries could cooperate to issue required import and export compulsory licenses.

6. p. 5, l. 57 to p. 6, l. 3. Much more relevant to the article is the High Level Panel's
recommendation concerning the Paragraph 6 decision: "WTO Members should revise
the paragraph 6 decision in order to find a solution that enables a swift and
expedient export of pharmaceutical products produced under compulsory license.
WTO Members should, as necessary, adopt a waiver and permanent revision of the
TRIPS Agreement to enable this reform." I think the discussion on delinkage here is
tangential.
7. p. 6, ll.18-26. The compulsory licenses threatened by the U.S. and Canada were
not Paragraph 6 Decision threats, since the threat occurred before the Doha
Declaration and the Paragraph 6 Decision was passed nearly two years later. I
agree with the authors that CL threats can be effective, but their main claim in the
paper is about Paragraph 6/Article 31 bis threats. In my opinion, the article would
be stronger if it acknowledged the power of regular CL threats as well as Paragraph
6/Article 31 bis threats.
8. p. 6, l. 29. The statement that sofosbuvir is patented in all WTO Member is
incorrect. The Medicines Patent Pool MedPAL database lists sofosbuvir's patent
status in most LMICs and it is not patented in many of those countries. In addition,
pending and granted patents are being successfully challenged via pre- and
post-grant opposition procedures in multiple jurisdictions, most recently China,
Egypt, and Ukraine, with other opposition decisions pending or appealed in
Argentina, Russia, Brazil, and Thailand among others.
9. p. 6, l. 51. I believe the authors must have a typo in arguing that political
pressure by rich countries against poor countries to dissuade them from using TRIPS
flexibilities has all but disappeared. There are too many examples of such pressure
to count. In fact, the article should reference the growing opposition to CLs
evidence in President Trump's statements and the 2018 301 Watch List and in the
statements of the international biopharmaceutical industry and its allies.
10. p. 7, ll. 3-9. The authors' conclusion would be stronger if it referenced the
desirability of countries collaborating together to issue compulsory licenses on
priorities medicines in order to aggregate markets in addition to arguing that they
should cooperated with respect to Art. 31 bis licenses. Art. 31 bis only deals with
countries with insufficient manufacturing capacity, whereas other compulsory
licenses can be issue for the benefit even countries with manufacturing capacity at
least with respect to non-predominant quantities. In addition, and even better,
competition based licenses can justify unlimited exports to countries without a
patent bar. The conclusion would also be strengthened if the authors proposed a
mechanism for such collaboration/cooperation.