Thank you for the opportunity to review this manuscript describing a randomized
intervention of routine third trimester ultrasound compared to usual care in the
Netherlands.
The paper is well written and provides a compelling argument for the need for additional
research in this very important area. The trial itself seems well designed and rigorous, with
important quality controls for the participating sonographers, midwifery practices, and data
collection. The use of standardized protocols following the identification of growth
restriction is an important improvement compared with prior studies.
While the paper is a potentially important contribution to the literature, there are some
weaknesses which need to be addressed. Importantly, the trial did not reach its enrollment
target which contributes to the analyses being underpowered. Further, there appears to
have been substantial non-indicated use of third trimester ultrasound for those in the
control strategy, which, in the setting of an “intention-to-treat” analysis may lead to an
additional loss of power and underestimation of the true effect. When studying an
intervention designed to prevent harm, these are important limitations as true effects may
be hidden. Given such, it is not clear to me that the strong conclusions provided by the
authors are, as of yet, fully justified. Further data and revisions would strengthen this
paper.

Major points:
1. There appears to be substantial “crossover” from CAU to 3rd trimester ultrasound: pg
10, line 40 notes that 41% of those not referred to secondary care before 37 weeks did not
receive any 3rd trimester ultrasound, suggesting that 59% did receive at least one 3rd
trimester ultrasound. Table 2 notes that only 18.7% of those in the control strategy had a
medical indication for a fetal ultrasound after 24 weeks GA. Assuming there is not an error
in the presentation of the numbers, we need more information on why women in the
control strategy without a medical indication received 3rd trimester ultrasounds.
Since an intention-to-treat analysis is conducted, this crossover may bias the results
towards no effect and therefore may be hiding any existing safety signal (see point 3). I
believe the high degree of crossover argues for including an additional “as treated” analysis
which may be better able to detect a decrease in poor outcomes if one truly exists.
Additionally, the statement on page 14, line 11 that the cluster design “limited
contamination between study groups” is questionable given how many women in the
control strategy seem to have received a non-medically indicated ultrasound. Please
reword this to accurately reflect what the data shows: limited crossover from intervention
to CAU, but substantial crossover from CAU to intervention.
2. It surprising to see that sensitivity and specificity differ so substantially between the
control and intervention groups as these are generally considered to be properties of the

test. Some discussion of this point by the authors is needed but does not appear to be
included in the discussion section on pg 12 which includes a review of sensitivity and
specificity findings (last paragraph).
I also note that while the sensitivity of the 34-36 week scan is very low (11%) the positive
predictive value is reported at 59% -- the highest PPV reported in the study. I believe this
merits discussion as well. Perhaps later 3rd trimester screens have a better yield than
earlier screens.
3. The conclusion that all secondary neonatal outcomes did not differ between intervention
and CAU is oversimplified (Pg 11, lines 5-7).
Table 4 shows that, with the exception of assisted ventilation and septicaemia, all other
perinatal outcomes are reduced in the intervention group compared to CAU. This suggests
that the null finding for the composite is in part due to benefits and harms cancelling each
other out rather than no effect at all.
While the number of outcomes for each group is quite small and the confidence intervals
all include the null, these results suggest that a safety benefit cannot be ruled out and a
better powered study might indeed find statistically significant reductions in poor offspring
outcomes with the intervention. I believe this further argues for adding an “as treated”
analysis which may have better power to detect differences given the high crossover.
Currently, the discussion and conclusions of this paper do not acknowledge that a
protective effect for some perinatal outcomes -- and harm for others -- cannot be ruled
out. Further, the discussion should include a discussion of the finding of consistently lower
odds of most perinatal adverse outcomes but higher odds for septicemia and assisted
ventilation and put these findings in the context of low power due to lower than target
enrollment and a smaller effect size than anticipated.
Page 13, line 40-46 states that not only can routine screening 3rd trimester ultrasound
screening not be recommended but may be “disreccommended” (sic) due to higher
induction of labor without perinatal benefits -- this substantially overstates the findings of
this study for the reasons outlined above. Suggest removing.
4. Table 4 – neonatal death appears to only include deaths between day 7-28. Deaths on
day of birth through day 6 need to be reported. Presumably these are included within
“perinatal deaths” but do not appear to be reported separately from this category. Please
make sure these are clearly presented.
5. Table 5 – It would be helpful to add whether induction of labor is occurring preterm
since the benefit/harms of preterm induction are important to balance. Additionally, is it
possible to add whether or not the induction was indicated because of SGA? Again, this
may help clarify the impact of the intervention.
6. Please add to the limitations that, the lack of power does not allow for a clear
determination of benefit or harms for perinatal offspring outcomes.
7. Missing from the discussion is that this study was conducted in the context of low
baseline risks of poor perinatal outcomes, which may impact the effectiveness of the
intervention. The international readership of this journal would benefit from an
acknowledgement that results may differ by country. For example, do the authors believe
that the same results would be obtained in the United States where there is a far higher
baseline risks of perinatal mortality?
Minor points:

1. Page 1 line 31 and abstract – please define “CAU” before use.
2. Page 6 second paragraph under “Randomization and masking” – this appears to be
describing the intervention, so should be in a different section. Additionally, please clarify if
lines 41-44 apply to just the intervention group or also to the control group.
3. Recruitment of midwifery practices is based on participation of those practices at
meetings, postgraduate courses, social media, and through professional journals (Pg 5,
lines 33-34). I wonder if this might have resulted in recruiting practices who are providing
more high-quality patient care than practices not reached through those means. If this
were the case, perhaps the change from CAU is less substantial than it would be if those in
“lower quality” practices adopted the intervention.
For this reason and also for understanding generalizability of findings nationally, it would
be helpful to describe how the included practices compare to general midwifery practices in
the Netherlands.
4. Because this is (by necessity) an unblinded study, is it possible that the midwifery
practices changed practice to do more monitoring during the CAU portion of the study?
I.e., simply by participating, did they change care prior to the intervention stage? (Could
this explain the crossover from CAU to apparently non-indicated scans?) If this did happen,
it might bias the trial results towards no effect while still having a true effect. Is there any
data that could be provided to evaluate this possibility? If so, it would be helpful for
understanding the full potential impact of the intervention.
5. Among the confounders included in the regression model is gestational age (listed as
“prematurity” in the footnotes of Table 4). This should not be included in the model as low
gestational age/preterm delivery is a mediator of the severe adverse perinatal outcomes
included in the composite outcome (e.g., detected SGA may lead to preterm delivery,
which in turn may lead to the need for assisted ventilation). Although the change in results
from crude to adjusted models is small, it would be best not to adjust for this variable.
6. Why are congenital anomalies included as a secondary outcome? These cannot be
caused by 3rd trimester sonography. Do the authors have a hypothesis as to why there are
more CA cases among the intervention group than the CAU group?
7. Please include more detail on the timing of preterm deliveries, as this is one of the more
likely consequences of screening for SGA. For example, break out by <28 weeks, 28 -32
weeks, 33-35 weeks, 36 weeks or even <32, 32+ weeks. Although late preterm delivery
(week 36) is not begin, it is less likely to have severe consequences than earlier deliveries;
thus it is important to know when in gestation these deliveries are occurring.
8. Table 5 – From the text and protocol it appears that mothers with identified
hypertensive disorders were referred to obstetrical care – are these mothers included in
this analysis? Please clarify when those referred to obstetric care are included in analyses
and when they are not.
9. Table 3 – I found this table hard to navigate. Perhaps some of the main headings for the
rows could be bolded or the sub-headings further inset. Also having “NA” in the cells
makes it difficult to read the other numbers. Maybe these could be replaced with dashes
instead. An additional line under the column headings would also be helpful.
10. What this study adds, bullet point 1: there was no reduction in the composite of severe
perinatal outcomes but not it does not appear that a reduction can be ruled out for many
of the individual outcomes. Bullet point 2: I do not believe the data here are sufficiently
conclusive to make a recommendation for or against the intervention.

11. Abstract should note the non-significant reductions in some perinatal offspring
outcomes.
