This paper reports an analysis of ozone concentrations and daily all-cause mortality in 469
cities in20 countries across the world. The relevant data has been obtained in the
framework of an existing Multi-city Multi-country Collaborative network.
Time-series studies of short-term exposure to ozone and daily mortality are already
abundant (one review up to 2011, identified nearly 200 studies reporting relative risks).
Many have involved multiple countries and a substantial number have employed
centralized or coordinated analyses for participating centres. The results so far have
strongly suggested that ozone has a measurable association with daily mortality which is
robust to control for PM and NO2. Mortality impacts based on this result can only be
interpreted as deaths brought forward, not as years of life lost which limits its value except
for comparing abatement scenarios or countries (as in this paper).
This study is an important addition to the existing evidence. As emphasised by the authors,
it is very large in terms of cities, and somewhat larger in terms of the number of countries
(the number of cities in each country is markedly skewed). The relative risks are,
reassuringly, of the same order as those currently available (see HRAPIE Report)
supporting impact assessments already done, though tending to be lower. The strengths of
the study lie not only in its size, but in the centralised analysis protocol using state-of-art
statistical methods and in the inclusion of analyses of sensitivity to temperature control (a
key confounder), investigation of short-term mortality displacement, and investigation of
shape of exposure response function. The estimation of mortality impacts is also of some
interest though such analyses are more useful for comparing abatement scenarios than for
making absolute estimates.
Main comments
1. In view of the number of cities, I was surprised not to see more attempts to investigate
reasons for heterogeneity. For example, was the estimate modified by the mean level of
ozone, or by the levels of PM or NO2. Or by other factors such as relative proportion of
cardiovascular vs respiratory causes (as an indicator or variations in vulnerability of the
population).
2. I was also surprised not to see cause-specific mortality addressed. Again, the size of
study would be an asset here.
3. The paper is written without much regard to a reader who does not already understand
this area of research. A prime example is the lack of any explanation of what the mortality
impacts from daily time series mean and how they differ from the more commonly
encountered mortality impacts based on chronic exposure studies (years of life lost). This
should be explained up front and would be useful in the discussion if, as I suggest it

should, be decided to discuss the implications of the indication of short-term mortality
displacement.
4. I have a suggestion about the presentation of tables and figures.
a. Table 1 might be improved by including a measure of the number and distribution of
daily deaths as this is important statistically. I assume that the pollution data is based on
days but it does not say so. [incidentally, I am astonished that the ozone levels are so low
in Australia, especially since they have more UV light due to lack of ozone in the
stratosphere and (in the south) and lots of VOCs from eucalyptus trees as well as vehicles]
b. Table 2 is fine but I wonder why you do not give an estimate for below, say 70mcg/m3,
down to a theoretical minimum – say 5th centile of observations. The implications of
impacts below this might be relatively important for some countries. WHO GL emphasise
that effects go lower than the GL.
c. Figure 1. This map is not really needed as it is not very clear and the main information is
there in Table 1.
d. Figure 2. Is good
e. You could think of taking eFigure 1 into the main paper. The two figures represent
important results beautifully and convey more information than the map (Figure 1) that I
think is redundant (or could be put in the supplement)
f. I also like the idea of bringing in eFigure 2. The temperature control question is really
important especially with such small risks.
5. Presentational issues. The writing of the Abstract, Summary boxes and Introduction
would benefit from tightening in a number of places. Here are some examples but the list
is not exhaustive
a. Title could include the number of countries
b. Summary boxes. These contain a degree of exaggeration about gaps in existing
evidence as well as failing to emphasise some of the real strengths of the study
sufficiently. Line 7 p4: “several studies” – this does not do justice to the hundreds of
previous studies. It would be more accurate to say “several hundred studies”!! I think it is
an exaggeration to say that there are major gaps in existing evidence. Line 17 p 4: This
sentence does not read properly and I am not sure what you mean by “substantial”.
c. Abstract. Line 23 p 5: “strong” increase in risk- what does strong mean? Line 27 p5:
WHO publish Guidelines not recommendations – also in other sections of the text. In the
Conclusion I would clarify that these are deaths brought forward. What have we learned
that would change current clean air interventions and mitigation strategies? If that was not
discussed it should not really be in the Abstract.
d. Introduction. Line 5 p6: The introductory sentence about ozone is inadequate and not
very accurate. Line 7 p6: You should cite major reviews here – EPA ISA, WHO.
