Importance

This study explored the crucial and influential relationship between patient groups and
industry sponsors. Financial transparency in healthcare has always been a seminal issue, and
the influence of capital on the actions of those within healthcare organizations cannot be
denied.
This work is of particular importance to patients and policymakers. The general reach of the
BMJ will provide this study with a good platform from which to reach its desired audience.
However, this study may also be well suited to a Public Health Journal.
Originality
This systematic review with meta-analysis is a first of its kind study which explores the issue
of industry funding of health consumer organizations. While there have been many individual
studies and compelling incidents which expose the entanglement between patient advocacy
organizations and for-profit companies, a high-quality systematic review has not yet been
produced.
Research Question
The research question has been clearly defined under the sub-headings of
i) Prevalence of industry finding
ii) Transparency
iii) Positions
However, it is not noted explicitly if this study sought to explore the industry-patient group
relationship within a particular country/political jurisdiction (for example, the U.S vs. the
E.U). Instead, it is left to the reader to elucidate this information on their own as it appears
in the results section. This is an important dimension which should be addressed explicitly,
and is relevant because different healthcare systems and governments have differing policies
(if any) regarding the industry-patient group relationship.
Abstract
The abstract should include a brief overview of the importance of this topic in order to better
represent the subject and convey to the reader why the study was undertaken.
Introduction
While this article has done a good job of consolidating available evidence regarding industry
sponsorship of patient groups, some specific examples of this relationship at play in the
introduction section might help provide some context about the scope of the issue and to
ease the reader into the subject. Additionally, is suggested that examples of patient groups
be provided in the introduction. For instance, some readers may not be aware that large
influential organizations such as the American Heart Association and the American Diabetes
Association are, in fact, patient groups.
Lines 91-93: reference needed here. Patient and health consumer groups are defined
without a supporting citation.
Methods and study design
The study design was robust. The methods are adequately described and transparency has
been assured by the provision of supplementary material where needed. The relevant
reporting standard is met. No ethical objections are evident.
In addition to sponsorship from the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, another
source of financial support and potential conflict to interest for some organizations (such as
the American Heart Association and the American Diabetes Association) is from health
insurance companies. It would be helpful to know if the studies included in this
meta-analysis addressed this.

Page 9, line 235 – ‘Patient involvement’ should be changed to ‘Investigator involvement in
patient groups’ since this section describes the involvement of the investigators of this study
in various patient consumer groups.
Results
Scientific reliability
Why were p-values not reported for the results?
Lines 50-51 ‘Estimates of prevalence of organizational policies ranged from 2% to 64%’.
Needs clarification; would make more sense if it read ‘Estimates of prevalence of
organizational policies regarding industry sponsorship ranged from 2% to 64%’.
Discussion
While the discussion section expresses the practical applications and implications of the
results of this study, the overall message is somewhat scattered and unclear. It is suggested
that a ‘Conclusions’ section be included so as to focus the main takeaways from this article.
Key findings
This section is a summary of the key results and should be included in the results section as
opposed to the discussion section.
Lines 434 – 436: ‘Four studies focused on a selected population of patient groups;
prevalence ranged from 34% to 436 75%’. To which ‘selected population’ are the authors
referring?
Lines 444 - 451: The discussion of how industry-funded groups generally supported
sponsors’ interests more often than non-funded groups is an important one. While the
ensuing paragraph provides reasons as to why these results should be interpreted with
caution, the discussion is incomplete without an exploration of whether or not the policy
positions/sponsors interests are in opposition to available evidence (from the perspective of
evidence-based medicine), or potentially harmful to the patient.
Implications for policy and practice
While the implications of the results of this study on patients, patient groups and the medical
industry are explored in depth, the implications of these findings on physicians are not
discussed in sufficient detail. Since a majority of the readership for this article is expected to
be healthcare practitioners, a detailed discussion of the physician related consequences of
these findings is suggested.
Page 18, line 522-524 - citation needed here: Two studies examining disclosure in patient
group submissions to consultations with US governmental agencies reported very different
disclosure rates: 0%, in submissions to the CDC and 91% in submission to the FDA.
Tables and figures
Table 2. GRADE summary of findings: Industry funding of patient groups – a legend should
be included for the interpretation of the ⊕⊝ symbols.
Table 3. Details of industry funding – under the ‘mean amount’ column, the time period for
this amount should be mentioned (e.g., per calendar year or fiscal year)
Figure 1. Study flow diagram – should be labeled the PRISMA study flow diagram
References
Areas which need references have been mentioned separately under each sub-heading in
this review. Please see above for specific recommendations.

Additional Questions:
Please enter your name: Anum Fasih
Job Title: Associate Consultant
Institution: The Indus Hospital
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/dec
laration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here:

Reviewer: 4
