The first author is to be commended for doing this much-needed research to address the weak,
inconsistent monitoring of safety by choosing a ‘tracer’ example across two regulatory continents and
two notable countries. The key messages on pg 1 are well done, only isn’t discordance in
communication due both to differences in decision-making as well as (not rather than) quality and
access to data? The major question that kept coming to mind (not the subject of this study or paper
but needing comparable attention) is the degree to which safety concerns are communicated in ways
that alert and concern both patients and doctors. U.S. TV ads end with “Talk to your physician about
whether [our drug] is right for you.” Suppose there were a regular drug alert set-up by Consumers
Report, or USA Today, or the Daily Mail, or the Australian equivalent, that featured new safety
evidence and backlisted previous ones with the message “Talk to your doctor and family about
whether these risks are a concern for you.”
Regarding lines 75 to 253, I have a few comments about this well-structured and written text and
more about Table 1. First, do you want to say something about the modern language convention of
“health” and “safety.” I’m reviewing a book by a major author who writes about “mental ill health.”
What is that? While serving as the Leverhulme visiting professor, someone posted a note that a staff
member was “unwell.” Was this a fudge for taking time off to rest, or was she seriously ill? “Unwell” or
ill health covers the entire spectrum. It is like “safety issues,” a restricting habit of language and mind
that replaces a rich vocabulary of specifics and degrees. The risks of toxic reactions becomes “safety
concerns.” The implication is that drugs are safe and people are safe, only now and then there are
“concerns” or “issues.” Thank goodness this text turns to “serious risks” rather than “serious safety
concerns.”
As the authors write, “how regulators convey emerging risk information ... could have substantial
public health impact.” I gather the impact is small, since US black box warnings apparently do not
affect much prescribing behavior. The important public health issue is how the FDA’s little noticed or
read details of adverse effects and even major warnings get usually ignored. This is ideal for drug
companies, less concerned about publicizing risks of their medicines than how many they can sell at
high mark-up prices. Each of these regulators does just what the companies want -- set up a
seemingly serious safety-alert system that does not slow down much persuading more doctors and
patients to prescribe and consume. SGLT2 inhibitors are approved as safe and effective, except to the
extent that they are not – -- see the regulator on this.
Table 1 is so important that I hope the authors and editors can improve on it. One suggestion is to list
all four regulators on the left for each “safety concern,” even though that leads to blank boxes with a

dash for “not applicable.” It would be easier to read if all four regulators were in the same order. It
would also make the point that several “safety advisories” (call them Risk Alert Services, or something
more honestly direct?) offer no advice at all. For example, regarding Serious Genitourinary
Infections,” 3 out of 4 have no alert! They don’t even pick up the FDA alert. People across the world
need to know this.
Another suggestion is to label in the footnote, Canadian PRAC and Australian TGA. Don’t
assume wider readership knows what PRAC and TGA mean.
Regarding Bone Loss or Fracture, I gather that none of the other three Risk Alert Services
picked up on the FDA alert. Yes? If so make that clear, even though the FDA alert may be an
over-reaction (Unlikely, given industry funding to the FDA.)
Regarding Amputation, Health Canada refers to an “FDA boxed warning” but that warning is
not part of the FDA summary. Why not?
I hope an editorial accompanies this paper that amplifies its points and points to repeated calls by
experts for an independent review board to both assess evidence of risks to patients and to initiate its
own investigations when appropriate.