The current study by Song et al examines the relation between exposure to stress disorders
and the subsequent risk for serious infectious diseases. Because there is much evidence of
stress-induced disruptions of immune regulation, and risk for infection after symptom-based
measurements of stress, the present study addresses a well-motivated research question.
The paper is generally very clear and well-written, and addresses a timely and important
topic. I have mostly minor comments.
Introduction, page 5 (page is truncated on the left margin, so row numbers can’t be seen in
my pdf):
The authors state: “Strong evidence from animal models and human studies suggests a
considerable dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in response to stress
with varying indices of immunosuppression (e.g., impaired humoral and cell-mediated
immunity). “
The HPA axis response to stress should not be presented as dysregulation. The response to
challenge in this axis represents an adaptive response – as the acute stress response in
general. Also, it is not simply related to immunosuppression, and experimental stress, at
least of the acute kind, and stress related conditions, at least PTSD, is connected with
increased measures of inflammation, while other functional indices seem to be suppressed.
The sentence needs to be clarified, not to mislead. This is important also as to judge
potential causes of infectious disease, as compromised immunity may increase risk, and
other aspects of a complex immune system, like inflammatory overshoot, may contribute to
severity.

For a similar reason, consider updating the references (1, 12,13) regarding immune profiles
in stress-related disorders.
Methods, page 7: because adaptions have been made to the Swedish classification of
stress-related disorders, and includes exhaustion disorder, consider explaining “other stress
disorders” more fully.
Because treatment guidelines vary across countries, please state to what country reference
18 applies to regarding SSRI as recommended pharmacotherapy for stress-related
disorders.
Page 8: Explain more clearly why history of psychiatric disorders and psychiatric
comorbidity was handled differently than other covariates.

Results, page 11 and discussion:
Prior history of psychiatric diseases as well as somatic and infectious diseases were more
common among exposed as compared to non-exposed subjects. Does this speak for
vulnerability rather than immune dysregulation resulting from the stress disorder? This
should be better discussed.
The same need applies to the results on higher risk in subjects without a history of somatic
or psychiatric conditions.
Discussion, page 13: It is true that many studies show that higher stress is related to
increased risk for infection, but they are experimental in the way that virus is exposed to
subjects. The independent variable, stress, is not manipulated, which one might believe. I
leave it to the authors if they want to rephrase the sentence or not.
Is it is it reasonable that acute stress reactions, of maximum one month, increase the risk
for severe infections? Also, because prior of psychiatric, somatic and infectious diseases
were more common among exposed subjects, the authors might discuss in somewhat more
detail the issue of possible reasons for seeing the observed higher risk for infectious disease
in the exposed group. What role can vulnerability play? For PTSD, there is fairly strong
evidence that inflammatory activation is present. Would this apply to severity rather than
risk for infection per se? While I appreciate the lack of speculation in the current version of
the manuscript, a more thorough discussion would be appreciated in some of these matters.
On a related note: risk for death from serious infections is brought up in the introduction,
and I expected this to be analysed as an outcome. If I do not misread, this is not displayed
in the manuscript.
On behavioural factors of relevance: consider including sleep, as sleep disturbances are
related to psychiatric disorders, and not the least stress-related disorders, including PTSD.
Page 14: Because stress diagnoses are not uncontroversial in terms of precision (for
example, aetiology is part of the diagnosis, which stands out from other more descriptive
and untheoretical diagnoses), is there a risk for misclassification? Also, these disorders are
indicated to vary in frequency in relation to insurance regulation that change over time.
