This research looks at a very well used drug which has devastating affects on patients
lives. Rosiglitazone has been manufactured since 1999 for Type 2 diabetes mellitus. This
is looking at the safety concerns of myocardial infarction to included cardiovascular risks.
There were 150 entries with scientific results articles which had unclear adverse events
reported. They were looking at myocardial infarction and cardiovascular related deaths .
There was failure .to mention any specific adverse events of interest. There was not
discloser of any serious adverse events were not observed or excluded unless additional
information was provided by corresponding authors. This does not imply no such events
occurred. They did not included Patient and Public in the research which l feel was in
someway wrong you need to trust patients who have lived with type 2 diabetes for years
and come to understand the medications they are on. It would also help with gathering
information into the affects of rosiglitazone has had on there lives. There have been many
meta analyses which have used different approaches he have reported conflicting findings
related to rosiglitazone the risk of this was due in part to the limitations in the meta
analyses the design of the trails. It is very unclear relating to deaths due to the
myocardial infarction & cardiovascular related deaths they included placebos -metformin sulfonylureas or other tablets. The number of deaths are recorded in different numbers
these who were associated to rosiglitazone or just deaths from myocardial infarction or
cardiovascular deaths. They used a variety of statistics techniques that suggest
rosiglitazone is associated with increased cardiovascular risks. Due to the numbers of
people diagnosed with type diabetes which has increased since 1999 the number of
patients is due to increase. They have looked at the USA figures would like to see some
work done on patients in the UK and Europe were rosiglitazone was used widely among
health professionals which patients found out through the internet regarding these tablets.
I would recommend the research due to the large amount of deaths.