This manuscript is a well written and thoughtful exposition on the study of red cell
storage and the many clinical trials that have been performed overtime to determine
if there are adverse effects from prolonged storage. The authors have done an
excellent job describing many of the difficulties in designing and performing studies
on this topic, ultimately asking the question of whether recent published trials have
adequately resolved the issue. There are several issues which could be addressed to
improve the paper:
1) The authors present a large number of trials, most of which are small and old,
along with the three major trials that have recently been published. They criticize
some of these trials but most of these criticisms apply to the earlier work. Figure 1
lumps all of the trials. It seems to me that focusing only on the three major trials in
the figure and discussion would have advantages of more clarity for the generalist
reader.
2) The discussions of the problem of case-mix are helpful in identifying this area of
concern in trial design but not complete. Some critics of the recent trials suggest
that they not apply to acute trauma situations or massive transfusions or patients
with ischemic heart disease. The authors also discuss the problem of multiple
transfusion episodes. Unfortunately, the authors do not acknowledge some of the
reasons that make these concerns difficult to address. There were ethical concerns
about randomizing patients to older blood, since the studies were based on the
premise of retrospective studies suggesting harm from old blood. It is increasingly
difficult to design studies of patients getting a single exposure to multiple units of
blood since many high volume OR cases use less blood than in the past.
3) A recent reanalysis of the INFORM data suggests that there was no difference in
mortality in patients receiving fresher blood, mid-storage range blood, or blood
greater than 35 days. Although the authors stress that there is no proof that a
relationship of adverse effects to storage age is not necessarily linear, these data
from this large database are reassuring and do not suggest an unpredicted
relationship.
4) The authors question whether there is enough data currently to reassure
clinicians on this issue. Most transfusion authorities find the data to be reassuring,
emphasizing no apparent advantage to fresher blood and the recent analysis of older
blood recipients in the INFORM study should allay some concerns. On the other
hand, studies of very sick animals with infection performed at the NIH suggest harm
from older blood, and studies from investigators at Columbia University suggest that
the iron load from blood stored beyond 35 days might be harmful. I think the
author's suggestion that the large trials could be used to provide specific patient
focused studies has some merit but doubt that they will come to very different
conclusions. In the interim, it is not clear what message the authors are trying to
deliver to generalists who read the BMJ. They do not suggest that more clinical trials
should be done, so general support for more research is probably unneeded. I am
not sure if the authors are suggesting different clinical practices and somewhat
concerned that their message may be important for researchers but confusing to
practitioners. The transfusion medicine community is already considering whether
shortening the storage period to 35 days, particularly in areas where supply issues
do not necessitate longer shelf life, might be an appropriate cautious step.

5) The authors use a term unfamiliar to me to describe red cell storage where they
compare fresher to "actively older". They cite six references that use the term, but it
is not in common use now.
6) I am not convinced that figure 2 adds much value, since most clinicians
understand that patients requiring transfusion support may have multiple exposures
at different times during a complicated hospital course.