The article makes a good case for the importance of grassroots organizations (in
particular, grassroots monitoring through social accountability initiatives) to the
achievement of the SDGs, with some solid examples. It's an important topic which
needs more attention and exploration so this is a welcome contribution. A few
points:
1) The authors use the phrase 'leave no one behind' several times. It would be
useful to explain the genesis of this phrase - that it is a specific overarching
commitment in the 2030 Agenda, included in response to the widespread perception
that the MDGs encourage and prioritized aggregate progress but were
inequality-blind.
2) Similarly, it would be useful to situate this article/proposal in the broader context;
that of a currently very weak accountability ecosystem for the SDG commitments.
Part of this is lack of meaningful accountability mechanisms and processes, but a
large part is also deficiencies in data to monitor the goals, and weaknesses and gaps
in the indicators that have been chosen. This would make the article more powerful,
in terms of situating these kinds of approaches as an important corrective.
3) Page 4, top of page: important not to suggest that data collected by grassroots
organizations is only of relevance for monitoring Goals 3,5 and 16! Could be relevant
for many goals.
4) I know the article can't go into all the evidence related to the effectiveness of
social accountability initiatives, but I think it might be useful to more explicitly
reflect/incorporate e.g. Fox's insights about 'scaling up' and 'scaling across', and
perhaps Gaventa's power cube (esp. claimed vs invited spaces?). For example, the
section on citizen monitoring closes (on p5) with the statement that "Increasingly,
grassroots monitoring initiatives use their relations with external allies to exert
pressure on other areas of the system". This speaks to some of Fox's analysis of
successful SA initiatives, and is crying out for another couple of sentences of
explanation or example.
5) Page 6, lines 40-42: also important to acknowledge issues of intra-group
inequalities, danger of more powerful members of group dominating (e.g. men in
the community).
6) The article mentions the danger of using the groups as free labor to collect data. I
agree this is a risk, but I think much more of a problem is how to persuade
governments to pay attention to or use this kind of data at all.
7) A small editorial point: the same quote is used twice, on page 2 (lines 27/28) and
page 3 (lines 34/35).