Introduction:
Line 40: I would reword this sentence, because I do not believe Open Payments records
every single "payment and transfer of value". While it likely records a majority, I doubt it
includes all payments or benefits physicians receive.
Methods:
Line 30: Were the US based peers from the independent expert list (the sentence
describing this is a little mottled)? Is this list verified by any independent source?
Line 39: What other related terms were included?
Overall Methods: While there are no glaring deficiencies in the methodology, to me it does
seem quite messy. For example, obtaining the top 10 disease areas and then contacting
experts in the US based on a list of experts not widely cited (to my knowledge) seems to
lack a systematic approach. Wouldn't it be better to try and find funding totals through
financial reports of related societies and then use the society with the highest funding for
each area of interest? For example one from OTA can be found here:
https://ota.org/sites/files/2018-04/2014-ota-annual-report-082715-web.pdf. This is just
an idea, but simply calling on 3 people in the US from each field seems like a way to
introduce bias into the study as these experts will all have their own biased opinions.
Also, the authors do not describe their methodology for determining how they identified
guidelines with the highest combination of downloads and citations in order to identify
overuse. This is a critical aspect of the study, as they only chose up to 3 guidelines per
society and their results could have differed had they used different guidelines. I feel as
though only including 3 guidelines does not tell use much. As someone who has studied
various aspects of guidelines, I can say with confidence that although many from each
society have similar aspects, they all will have varying degree of differences. It would have
been much stronger to have a larger sample size of guidelines from each society than 3.
As of now, we can only draw limited conclusions from such a small sample size.
Results:
I would have preferred if the information in Figure 1 was included in the methods or, if
Figure 1 was cited in the methods. When I read the methods I was initially concerned that
this information was not included and sought out the figures and tables to see if it was. I
would suggest including it earlier.
I really like Box. 1. I have not seen a figure like this in similar literature. Nice addition to
the paper.
While the leaders of these society's do have financial ties to industry that are significant,
one of the criticisms of your results will be there is no provided proof as to whether those
payments were related to the guidelines or documents that their society produced.
Furthermore, you did not report each society's stance or regulations regarding COI. It
could be that these leaders are simply organizational leaders and do not have voting
privileges on documents that could change clinical practice. Which would mean their COI
(while concerning) is not effecting patient care. It would be much stronger if you reported

on each society's regulations regarding COI, and also evaluated whether the payments
received by leaders could be linked to topics within their society's documents that alter
clinical practice. This has been done in some of the COI papers reporting on clinical
practice guideline authors and provides a much stronger argument.
Discussion:
As it stands, I do not feel the discussion carries sufficient weight for publication in a
prestigious journal such as the BMJ. Broken down, your discussion follows this layout:
P1:
P2:
P3:
P4:
P5:

Re-emphasizes results.
Limitations
Comparison to other studies.
Discussion regarding effects of industry and medical associations.
Future research.

The discussion, in this reviewers opinion, does not flow in this format and also lacks
substance. If you are going to provide data regarding COIs among prevalent societies
(which is controversial), the discussion should include (at minimum) recommendations for
preventing these COIs among societies in the future (rather than just citing what future
research is needed). That is where the true weight of the paper would lie. The authors do
momentarily discuss clinical practice guidelines in the context of these society's influence
on medical practice, but to me this is necessary information that a whole paragraph could
be dedicated to in the discussion. Especially considering there are 10+ studies on COIs
among guideline authors published as of the last few years. These society's true influence
is through guidelines and similar documents and if you are going to discuss COI causing
bias I would expect this to be a major player in the discussion. Furthermore, the authors
do not offer many examples of how this data is concerning or how it could effect medical
practice or patients.
Overall: Interesting paper with a few methodological "holes", and a need for a more
complete discussion that includes different aspects as to "why" COIs among society
leaders matters and the negative effects it could have (ie guidelines, conferences, etc).
The discussion should also include the author's recommendations moving forward as to
how to improve this subject in the future.
I do feel this work is worthy of publication with clarification of the methodology and
revision of the discussion.