Reviewer: Dariush Mozaffarian
The authors present a cohort analysis and meta-analysis of eggs and CVD. Strengths
include repeated measures of exposure, large numbers of cases, valid assessment of
outcome and other dietary covariates, limitation of confounding by SES due to restriction,
generally strong meta-analysis methods, and several relevant sensitivity analyses including
ceasing dietary updating after intervening diagnoses that could lead to reverse causation.
Limitations need to be addressed, including some methodologic issues and text in the
Discussion.
Major
1. Page 14, lines 10-15: Highlight in the Abstract and the Discussion that people with
higher egg intake were generally less healthy in multiple ways. Thus, if residual confounding
present, eggs may be even less harmful (more protective) than observed. Converse is very
unlikely given observed confounding structure.
2. Ability to adjust for appropriate confounders is a crucial aspect of this study. Baseline
prevalent DM is crucial to include in Model 2. Were time-varying covariates used for
smoking, BMI, PA, alcohol, MVI, etc.? Not specified, and should be time-varying too.
Dietary covariates: intakes of fruits and veggies not associated with egg intake? Should be
checked as confounders too.
3. Substitution models: Should not include both eggs and the alternate food in the same
model (since beta for eggs will be for keeping alternative food constant, and vice versa).
Should run model 3 (which adjusts much better than AHEI) with eggs, and then separately
run model 3 again, but replacing eggs with the alternate food. Then beta’s can be
compared/subtracted. Also, add whole milk to the Figure: not consumed less than some of
the other factors, such as nuts.

4. Meta-analysis: arbitrary, unjustified to exclude studies assessing only fatal CVD. No
evidence that biologic effects should vary for total, nonfatal, vs. fatal CVD. Many studies
only have fatal CVD, e.g. due to reliance on national death statistics. These studies should
be included too, at least in sensitivity analysis.
5. For all meta-analysis including subgroups, not correct to include subgroups of analyses
from a single study as separate entries in a meta-analysis (e.g., Figure 2). Subgroups
should be pooled (meta-analyzed) first within each study, for the outcome of interest, and
then a single value from that study should be included in the overall meta-analysis.
6. Page 16-17: Presentation of heterogeneity: The two factors which substantially reduce
the observed heterogeneity are (a) region and (b) risk of bias. This should be explicitly
described in the Results text, and expanded upon in the Discussion. By region,
heterogeneity is minimal. And, among studies of low risk of bias, heterogeneity is absent;
with all remaining heterogeneity among studies of high risk of bias. These are important
points.
7. Page 15, line 7: No interaction test (or any other statistical test based on P values) can
be “highly” significant (alpha=0.05 is a binary threshold). And, incorrect to say “among
participants with T2D was associated with a higher HR for CVD”; it was not associated in
these pooled analyses (nor in the meta in suppl. table 11). This subgroup should be
evaluated further in meta-analysis, including through attempted direct contacts with authors
for studies not reporting this stratification. Crucial to move findings from Suppl. 11 into
Table 4, including whatever data are available.
8. Table 4: add no. participants and no. cases to each row. Tables 3 and 4: delete P
values for I2 (not relevant, provides inference on statistical power rather than actual
heterogeneity). Table 4: add P values for interaction by the subgroups, tested using
meta-regression.
9. Discussion, first para: The first paragraph should summarize and focus on the main
findings. The substitution analyses are just mathematical subtraction: eggs are roughly
neutral, so beneficial foods like yogurt look better, while meats look worse. These
hypothetical substitution analyses (not based on any observed substitutions that were made
in these cohorts over time) can be mentioned and discussed later in the discussion. The
main findings include: (a) no signifcant association in the pooled cohorts, or in the meta,
across a wide range of egg consumption and subgroups; (b) observed heterogeneity largely
explained by region (lower risk in Asia, no significant risk in Europe and US) and by risk of
bias (no heterogeneity in studies at low risk of bias); and (c) no sign. differences by any
subgroup, except possibly diabetes (need to assess and confirm significance of this potential
interaction in the meta-analysis).
10. Page 19, lines 17-22: The inverse association in Asian cohorts is notable and has some
biologic plausibility, and more discussion is needed including a focus on the Asian findings in
its own paragraph. For example, dietary cholesterol may be protective against stroke in the
setting of lower fat diets – this needs to be expanded upon, with experimental evidence
summarized and cited. And, the speculation about confounding by SES should be supported
by data or deleted. E.g., is this supported by the published studies, and did they not adjust
for SES? And, don’t higher SES populations in Asia during the 1990’s and early 2000s have
higher, not lower, risk of CVD? Lines 19-22: if you believe this residual confounding is a
potential explanation, then need to expand and clarify the implications, which are that the
Asian studies provide the true valid (protective) association, while Western studies have
remaining residual confounding so that the association is (falsely) null rather than the (true)
protective association. (or just delete lines 19-22, if you don’t think residual confounding
strongly biases your findings)

12. Page 19, lines 23-24: The current statement seems a strong bit of author editorializing:
the correct objective statement would be, “Although we found no evidence for a higher CVD
risk with up to 2+ eggs/day consumption in US and European populations, among Asian
populations higher egg consumption was associated with lower CVD risk.” Don’t run away
from the findings, present them objectively. And, expand the remaining sentences in this
paragraph to point out that your findings suggest that eggs may be a similar replacement
choice for CVD risk as fish, poultry, legumes, nuts, whole grains, refined grains, potatoes,
milk, and cheese; a better choice than red and processed meats; and a worse choice only in
comparison to yogurt. Again, don’t run away from the findings, discuss them objectively.
13. Page 20, lines 6-13: Unlikely a whole paragraph is warranted on these exploratory
subgroup findings, especially as no significant risk was identified among diabetics either in
the pooled analysis or the meta-analysis. Objective to state: “while a statistically significant
interaction was identified in one exploratory subgroup analysis among diabetics, egg
consumption was not significant associated with CVD risk among diabetics either in the
pooled analysis or the meta-analysis.”
14. Conclusions, page 12: delete lines 21-24, cherry-picking of findings, and wildly off base
to end with a statement on nuts and legumes. Also, as noted before, failure to disprove the
null is not the same as proving the null: this analysis did not “demonstrate that consuming
up to one egg per day is not associated with a higher risk of CVD.” The accurate, objective
Conclusions of this analysis are: “Results from our three cohorts and from the updated
meta-analysis demonstrate that consuming two or more eggs per day, compared with less
than once per month, is not significantly associated with a higher risk of CVD. Findings were
consistent across multiple participant and study characteristics except for region: among
Asian population, egg consumption was associated with lower CVD risk.” If the authors wish
to include the substitution models in the Conclusions (I would suggest not), then the
objective accurate final statement would be “In mathematical models estimating dietary
substitutions, significant differences in CVD risk were not identified for eggs in comparison to
fish, poultry, legumes, nuts, whole grains, refined grains, potatoes, milk, or cheese; eggs
were associated with lower risk compared to red or processed meats, and with higher risk
compared to yogurt.” Same changes to the “What this study adds” on page 3.
15. Abstract Results: include more on the consistency of findings across patient and study
characteristics (actual observed findings), and less on the hypothetical substitution findings.
Abstract Conclusions: delete the second sentence (you did not find that the associations
vary, this was a mathematical calculation; and in fact for most of the substitutions there was
no evidence for any variation), replace conclusions with ““Results from our three cohorts and
from the updated meta-analysis demonstrate that consuming two or more eggs per day,
compared with less than once per month, is not significantly associated with CVD risk overall
and with potentially lower CVD risk in Asian populations.”
Minor:
Page 4, Lines 7-8: not fully accurate. DGAC/DGA cannot change the DRI; they simply
concluded that dietary cholesterol is no longer a nutrient of concern for overconsumption.
Page 12, lines 12-13: If dose-response estimate available, the high vs. low difference
should be matched to the observed reported range across categories in the study.
Page 16, line 23: no, you failed to disprove the null, i.e., failed to identify significant
evidence for publication bias; you did not prove the null i.e. “document no publication bias”.