Overall I commend the authors for use of marginal structural models and imputation. However, I do
have some concerns.
First. the true novelty of the paper is not that clear from the intro- the authors only state contemporary
data is not available but this is a bit vague. If we know short and long term survival has improved
categorically, why do we need another paper on this? I think the intro needs to be far more nuanced and

link to the what their data provides & what their advanced methods used in the paper such as MSM for
time-varying confounding and so on adds clarity to previous work.
In relation to the methods, I think far more detail is needed across the paper. For instance:
What was the rationale for choosing those epochs? Do they align with changes in treatment/guidelines
for AF? Could these data not have been analysed in one cox model allowing individuals to enter at
different times to test the temporal changes that way? The selection of those cut points could be a bit
arbitrary.
What was the percentage overlap in the epochs? Are people then present in one or epochs? There is not
enough detail to truly understand the impact of this on the findings.
What repeat assessments of atrial flutter were available (under ascertainment of newly-diagnosed AF)?
How was the atrial flutter variable collected and dealt with in the model compared to the newly
diagnosed AF? Were self-reported atrial flutter variables treated the same as newly diagnosed atrial
flutter? Did the authors perform sensitivity analyses on this on this given that one might be self report
and one is doctor diagnosed?
Given that the epochs are not independent of each other is it appropriate to use meta-regression to test
the differences between the periods this way?
The authors use MSMs to addressing time varying confounders - yet they do not tell us what these
confounders are.
What was included in their imputation models? Did the authors explore any sensitivity analyses for their
imputation? In general for both this and the MSMs I would expect lots of supplementary methodological
detail to provide greater clarity on what was done and reassurance that the approaches taken to these
somewhat complex problems are appropriate and robust.
Another concern I have is the overall interpretation of the work seems a bit skewed. The authors tend to
focus on the findings from the 10 year loss of life and interpret this as indication of overall improvement
but what do the authors make of the fact that in their time-varying models that CVD survival is not any
different across the epochs? The data is not altogether consistent and again a more nuanced
interpretation of the results would be useful.
