Dr Thayakaran and colleagues harvest data from the THIN database about mortality,
incident vascular and bone outcomes in people who were found to have high serum TSH.
Overall 160,000 people were included with more than 800,000 individual TSH readings and
participants were tracked for a median of 6 years. Mortality, ischaemic heart disease, heart
failure, AF and fractures were examined and individuals with TSH >10 have poor outcomes
for all domains, and low TSH is also associated with some but not all adverse outcomes.
Levothyroxine is about the 3rd most frequently prescribed drug in the UK and so this is an
important area for study. This paper, with an unprecedented cohort size, has the potential
to make an important contribution. I have some comments though:
1. The median serum TSH in the population is between 1.6 and 1.8mU/l in almost all
studies, with a logarithmic relationship to FT4. It is unclear why the TSH of 2.0-2.5mU/l
was taken as the referent for analysis. It would make biological sense to use the middle of
the distribution as the referent, which is almost certainly the 1.5–2.0mU/l window.
2. The inclusion criteria are not clear: is it that the participant must have a Read code of
hypothyroidism PLUS at least 2 TSH measurements, or are two (abnormal) TSH
measurements sufficient to be included? Do the TSH measurements confirm the GP Read
code diagnosis? Please restate the inclusion criteria to make it clearer.

3. The THIN database contains drug prescribing information, but it is not transparent from
the analysis whether all hypothyroid patients were prescribed levothyroxine. Please amend
table 1 to show number of patients prescribed levothyroxine. It is implied in the
introduction and discussion that all patients were treated with levothyroxine, but I suspect
not all may have been.
4. With relation to the above issue, spontaneous resolution of subclinical hypothyroidism is
expected in around 50% of cases. Can the authors gauge the proportion of patients who
were labelled as hypothyroidism on the basis of one or two modestly elevated TSH values,
which then spontaneously normalised without levothyroxine therapy. In numerical terms,
individuals with TSH in the 4-10 interval are likely to be the most numerous (around 5–10
fold more frequent than those with TSH >10mU/L) and if hypothyroidism Read codes are
not applied rigorously in primary care, then misclassification of transient subclinical
hypothyroidism as permanent hypothyroidism has the potential to confound the results.
5. The important paper of Flynn et al (JCEM 2010) in which time-weighted TSH values
were also used should be cited. The first sentence on page 16, suggesting this is the first
study to take this approach is incorrect.
