This article considers the current evidence for the value of using genetic tests to predict risk of disease. I
think this is a potentially useful paper for a number of audiences. It is generally clearly written and
helpfully structured with its use of question-based subheadings. I had a number of relatively minor
comments that I would like to see addressed.
First paragraph of page 5 and Box 2. The criteria the authors outline in determining what constitutes a
useful genetic test are I think helpful in thinking this through as it applies to specific examples. I wonder
therefore if Box 2 could more clearly parallel that by listing those criteria and explaining how each
criterion is met or not met, for each of the example tests. Perhaps this would mean a simple table? This
could increase its clarity in my view.
Last paragraph of page 5. This concerns assessing when predictive genetic testing have clinical utility.
However, the bulk of the evidence presented here relates to the feedback of genetic risk information to
individuals, with consistent evidence that this is ineffective in changing behaviour of tested individuals.
Fine as far as it goes but I think that the authors need to be clearer a) earlier on in the article that the
possibility for feedback to individuals to elicit their behaviour change is one specific example from a
range of possible clinical benefits of genetic risk information, because the sudden focus on that seems a
little jarring, but also relatedly b) that there are a number of other possible benefits for clinical utility
e.g. changing clinician behaviour/treatment etc. It seems odd to focus on the lack of evidence for this

particular possible benefit without more clearly stating that there are other possible benefits (perhaps
categorising those in some way maybe as per page 2 which lists “targeted clinical intervention for
reducing risk, including lifestyle counselling, closer surveillance, more intense screening and
pharmacological prophylaxis”) and being clear what the evidence is for these other possibilities. I
presume largely non-existent, but this needs stating before the evidence of clinical utility can seemingly
be summarised as lacking.
Page 7, first paragraph, Is predictive genetic testing ready for routine use? While they seem reasonable
to me, are there any references e.g. reports from expert bodies or guidelines, that the authors can
provide to help evidence these assertions?
Page 7, third paragraph, first two sentences. Can the authors check these sentences? Should it be
“participants undergoing WES HAVE a variant with potential monogenic disease risk”?
Page 8. It feels to me that the article ends too abruptly in proceeding into the brief conclusion. I think a
final section/paragraph would be useful where the previous material is summarised and discussed in
top-level terms, likely reflecting the bullet-pointed key messages, before the final necessarily brief
concluding couple of sentences.
