I thank the team behind the article " Data sharing practices of medicines-related apps and
the mobile ecosystem" for an interesting and valuable research study, which points toward
crucial areas for discussion regarding safety and privacy concerns, which also in the light of
this article may need future standardization in the area of mHealth. While the articles finding
are important for the broader public, its technical nature makes it a little hard to read for
people like me that are not really techy´s. So I have some suggestions and questions that
could improve the overall article:
Design and method:
1: To my understanding looking at Figure 1, you searched for a total of 821 apps, yet I
would be a little more specific in both the methods section and also limitations about the
massive exclusions of apps based on the names. Please explain a little further, not at least in
your limitations regarding the generalization of your findings ( most likely its even more
privacy issues in the excluded apps, or maybe do a drop-out analysis of some apps just for
referenc.)
2: Exclusion criteria: Please define limited interactivity and also country/company specific. I
especially don't get the country-specific exclusion.

3: The division between professional and consumer apps: Here I would suggest to at least
divide or discuss the potential difference in data collected and shared. In my world, the apps
for professionals and consumers are quite different.
3b: Regarding the division between consumer and professional, did you still randomise your
personas ( 2 professionals and 2 patients) irrespective the app's target regarding
professional or consumer users? If not, please make it clearer and also include a possible
discussion concerning this. If yes, I would be interested if sharing patterns differ between
professionals and consumer apps.
4: You looked at privacy settings before and after GDPR regulations implementations, yet
don't mention any discrepancies if found. Please revise.
5: Entities: I would suggest a figure or flowchart regarding your different levels of entities
and vendors. To my understanding, you have 55 unique entities in the primary analysis, yet
I'm not sure if the fourth level (n:216) are different entities or if you in total have 216
entities (abstract). Yet in the section regarding fourth party sharing, you talk about 238
entities.
6: Privacy policy: Over 92% have a privacy policy, yet I would like to know if you have done
some sort of analysis about how the policy is reflected in the actual app sharing process
toward for example third parties. As such, it would also be interesting to understand if app
permission set by Google is the same as the privacy policy of the app.
Statistics:
5: Your data seems highly sceewed do to the fact that the biggest companies ( Google,
Microsoft etc) are also the entities that share most. So even if you state IQR, its a little
tricky. I wonder what would happen if you exclude Google and its services for app
optimization and infrastructure as such in an analysis for example? This is also important
because you state that apps with more users share more.
6: Data sharing practices: to my understanding only 17 out of 24 apps transmitted user data
outside the app, yet in the last sentence of that section you mentioned 19 out of 24 apps
that share data? What's the difference.
6B: If only 17 or 19 apps ( depending on your answer above) shared data, isn't your primary
population 17 or 19 apps and not 24 apps? Please revise or elaborate further.
6C: I'm not totally convinced regarding your statement that apps with a higher number of
downloads tend to share more. If I look at table 3 it's quite a spread, in particular when
looking at the percentage in recipients regarding infrastructure vs analysis.
Results:
7: Minor: Figures are missing or at least do not have headings ( figure 2 and 3) . You also
need to refer better to the figures in the text, not at least in the fourth party sharing section
and the traffic analysis.
8: A system view on privacy: Here I would like to suggest an example where you use one of
your personas and for example 2 entities ( Google and a smaller entity) to exemplify how
easy it would be to identify the patient. I think this would be a good way to show how easy
and in what way you could identify a user.
Conclusion
9: Minor revision: I would opt to delete the first sentence, which is more of a discussion topic
rather than a conclusion.

Minor edit: Please revise the reference style for reference 6 in the sentence starting with:
For example, drug information and clinical decision support apps.....
PS: I'm sorry but I'm not able to refer to lines in the text because my PDF reader doesn't
support that function:
