Title: Egg Consumption and Risk of Cardiovascular Disease:
Findings from Three Large Prospective US Cohort Studies and an Updated Meta-Analysis
Manuscript ID BMJ-2019-050974
Overall comments:
First, reviewers generally expect a 10-page manuscript and a few tables and figures when
they agree to conduct a peer review for a journal. So, I was surprised that the request
actually involved reviewing a document over 60 pages long. Although I received an
extension for my review, this is of little help given my holiday schedule.
The manuscript represents both an analysis of three prospective cohorts and a
meta-analyses of existing studies evaluating egg consumption and incident cardiovascular
disease risk. My overall impression is that the paper was trying to do too much and that
important details were therefore missing. One idea would be to divide the manuscript into
two papers. Regardless, the article requires considerable revisions. Given my time
demands, I primarily focus on the first component of the paper involving analyses of the
Nurses Health Study (I and II) and the Health Professionals’ Follow-up Study.
Summary of review:

The authors did an extensive amount of work and provide a well-written manuscript. I
believe with a thorough revision, the manuscript would provide a valuable assessment of egg
consumption and it’s role in CVD. The authors should focus on 1) providing greater clarity in
terms of the analyses, 2) issues of time varying covariates, 3) approaches for handling
intermediaries in supplemental analyses, 4) the context of egg consumption and the extent
to which egg consumption contributed to total cholesterol intake, and 5) consideration of
separating the material into 2 papers. The revisions are potentially time consuming and
therefore, I recommend rejection of the manuscript in it’s current form.

1. Introduction: Fine as is. However, AHA recommends eggs as a healthy cheap food under
1 dollar for a serving on their website. Also, climate scientists say that eggs are more
environmentally sustainable source of protein than beef, etc. It is possible that the
introduction could be more modern in terms of the relevance of evaluating eggs. Further,
these issues provide another rationale for evaluating the egg substitution analyses (eggs vs.
red meat, etc).
2. Introduction: Line 18. Text states that it is important to consider multiple measures of
diet and lifestyle in analyses. As I look through the methods and results and tables, it
seems that multiple measures of diet were averaged (eggs, calories, etc), but there is no
text about the other covariates. See further comments on this theme below.
3. Methods
a. Description of population: o.k.
b. Exclusion criteria: o.k.
c. Outcome variables: adequately defined and o.k. We would anticipate, however,
considerable increases in case ascertainment in recent decade with use of troponins and
other diagnostic changes. The study represents 32 years of observation. Perhaps best to
mention this in the discussion section in terms of limitations/challenges. I see later that
calendar time was used in the analyses and this is appropriate given the changes in case
ascertainment by time.
d. “To reduce within-person variation and represent long-term diet, we computed cumulative
averages of dietary variables, including egg intake, from all available FFQs up to the
beginning of a follow-up period.” What is meant here by “up to the beginning of a follow-up
period”? When was this? Do you mean all available FFQs until the end of the follow-up
period, censoring, diagnoses or death due to outcomes of interests?
e. Eggs: Eggs eaten separately from other foods meaning the eggs were not mixed in with
other items as in a lasagna, cakes, breads, etc. But, bacon and eggs and omelets would
provide a count for egg consumption? What percent of total egg consumption is eggs eaten
separately from other foods? Did the FFQ and the 7-day dietary assessment evaluate this?
Were data available on cooking methods: boiled, fried?
f. Covariates: Not clear where the lifestyle variables come from given the multiple
assessments in the NHS, NHSII, and HPFS. This creates confusion when trying to interpret
the tables. Also, page 10, lines 4-8. The text regarding “updated” characteristics are these
the characteristics presented in table 1? The text should state from what years came the
updated characteristics.
g. Analysis: Cancer deaths would be a competing risk to the CVD events. Did the authors
consider a competing risk model? Did the authors consider time varying covariates as an
alternative analytic approach?
h. Page 10, lines 15-17. “We additionally evaluated associations by stopping updating diet
after diagnosis of T2D, hypertension, high blood cholesterol, angina, coronary artery bypass
graft (CABG), or the beginning of statin use”. When we consider the atherosclerotic process
some of these “intermediaries” are actually nice outcomes.
4. Results
a. There are large discrepancies in numbers presented. In the abstract and methods text, it
is clearly stated that the analyses included 83,383 women in NHS (I), 90,214 women in NHS
II, and 42,055 men in HPFS. In the methods text, the authors state that baseline was 1980

for NHS, 1991 for NHS II, and 1986 for HPFS. But, in Table 1, the number of participants in
these 3 cohorts by egg consumption levels is vastly lower (20,620, 25,698, and 14,650, for
the NHS, NHS II, and the HPFS, respectively). Also, the data in table 1 are of characteristics
assessed in 1998/1999 and not at the baseline of the three cohorts. There is no text in the
methods section to help the reader anticipate the presentation of the 1998/1999 data.
Usually, studies present the baseline characteristics of a cohort. If additional follow-up
assessments are available, then of course it is appropriate to present these characteristics
too, or a change in characteristic from the baseline values. These discrepancies and lack of
details makes it difficult to follow the analytic choices made.
b. Similarly, in the results section, the authors refer to a mid-point in the follow-up period
but this concept is not presented in the methods. Given the numbers in table 1, I am
wondering if the data presented in table 2 when all the covariates are added actually include
the full sample size or the subsample sizes presented in Table 1? The methods text needs
greater clarity.
c. Table 1. It would be worthwhile to present the % E from protein, carbohydrate, total fat,
and saturated fat by egg consumption level. As the main issue of concern is cholesterol,
saturated fat intake would be very important to describe relative to egg intake levels.
d. Trans-fat intake estimates would also be worthwhile to present in Table 1. This variable
would change markedly over time. It was curious that it was not mentioned at all in the
manuscript.
e. The cholesterol intake for the highest egg consumption group in mg/day is 581 for NHS,
513 for NHS II, and 604 for HPFS (Table 1). At 1 egg a day, we would expect a chol intake
of about 165 mg/day. It would be helpful to list in the top row of the table the mean (SD) or
median (IQR) of egg consumption/day for each of the 3 egg consumption groups. This will
provide the reader with a better appreciation of the anticipated contribution of egg intake to
total cholesterol intake. Given how low the mean egg intake is for the 3 cohorts as reported
in the results section, the top category of >=1 egg a day likely reflects a very low mean egg
intake –perhaps 1.2 eggs/day, or 198 mg/day of cholesterol from eggs? For the NHS
participants then, the egg cholesterol intake is about 34% of the total cholesterol intake?
More details are needed in the table and text so that the relevance and interpretation of
findings can be clearer. It would be good to state in the results section the % of the 3
cohorts consuming < 1 egg/day, 1 egg, 2 eggs and 3 eggs/day for interpreting the analyses
on 1 egg per day increases in egg consumption.
f. The result text regarding the data in table 1 does not mention the strikingly high
prevalence of statin use in the low egg consumers in 2 of the 3 cohorts. The statin use
distribution by egg consumption level is a strong indicator of the presence of reverse
causation.
g. Table 2. The pooled HR for model 1 is based upon sex stratified not cohort stratified
analyses. As the amount of eggs consumed and as important covariates such as statin use
differed between NHS and NHSII (at least based on table 1), it would likely have been more
appropriate to stratify by the 3 cohorts rather than just by sex (NHS and NHSII vs. HPFS).
h. Table 2 model 1. Calendar time in the footnote needs to be defined.
i. Statin use and how to handle it in analyses needs more clarification or potentially an
additional alternative approach. Statin use is a potential intermediary between diet-based
cholesterol problems and the outcomes of interest. Statin use likely overlaps with many of
the other intermediaries. But, contrary to most intermediates, statin use would subsequently
reduce future risk of the outcomes of interest. We do see that the authors conduct a
supplemental analyses where they censor egg consumption data to information prior to
statin use. But, these analyses could be further stratified by statin use (yes vs. no). In
Supplement Table 5, the authors stratify by statin use but it is not clear if the egg
consumption data here are censored or not.
j. Table 2, model 2 and 3. Where do the covariates come from? The methods text and
footnotes to the table need to be clearer. For example for smoking (never, former, current),
physical activity, family history of MI, etc. are these from the baseline evaluation or the
mid-point discussed in the results and most likely that presented in table 1? We would
anticipate decreases in smoking over time how was this accounted for in the analyses? It
truly is not clear where the covariates come from in the time sequence from baseline to

event occurrence. For example (Page 14, lines 18-20), the authors state “After accounting
for lifestyle and dietary characteristics associated with egg intake, this association was
attenuated and remained non-significant” Do the authors mean lifestyle and dietary
characteristics presented in table 1 or did they use other data? Footnotes need to define the
variables. For example, what is meant by baseline high blood cholesterol? Is this total serum
cholesterol and what cut-off was used in the analyses?
k. The sample sizes for table 2 for each of the three models and three outcomes could be
added as a footnote if they vary greatly.
l. Supplement table 5. I like this table and think it should stay in the manuscript, but given
how low the egg consumption is for the majority of the categories presented, I think this
table could simply present the same 3 categories as those presented in the manuscript.
m. Supplement tables 1-4. The egg consumption levels are so low that the egg contribution
to total dietary cholesterol is so negligible that it is not really worthwhile evaluating (in my
opinion). I think the 3-category egg consumption approach is more worthwhile.
n. Substitution analyses. Interesting findings. Overall model seems fine, but again, I believe
the substitution analyses should be repeated in several sensitivity analyses especially given
the high statin use among the low egg consumers…T2D could also be evaluated.
5. Discussion
a. About subanalyses of T2D: “such that one egg per day increase among participants with
T2D was associated with a higher HR for CVD compared with participants without T2D (HR
for one egg per day increase among individuals with T2D 1.13, 95% CI 0.99 to 1.29; HR for
one egg per day increase among individuals free of T2D 0.96, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.03).” I think
we need to be careful in the discussion section as eggs could represent boiled eggs or fried
eggs and therefore a considerable source of fat. Does the FFQ enable the authors to look at
cooking methods and cooking fat sources or added bacon/sausages (sources of saturated
fat, sodium, nitrates)? Maybe it is not the cholesterol in the eggs but the added fats
associated with cooking that is of a health concern for the individuals with T2D. Is there
anyway to look at this? If not, the text needs to reflect the complexities of the issue.
b. The 1 egg per day increase findings need to be interpreted within the context of the
extent to which the study population consumed more than 1 egg per day.
c. Meta-analyses: In the meta-analyses the authors find inconsistent associations between
egg consumption and CVD outcomes between study populations. There was no association
between egg consumption and CVD in the European and US study populations, while there
was a protective/inverse association noted for Asian study populations. I did not review this
aspect of the paper given demands on my time.
d. Discussion, page 18. The context of egg consumption needs to be discussed. One
limitation of studies evaluating egg consumption and incident CVD is the lack of control for
type of cooking and type and amount of added fat. Also, Page 19. In the European context
there has been greater effort to minimize trans-fat over time. Also, there may be a greater
frequency of boiling eggs in Europe than of frying eggs as in the US. Perhaps the lower
heterogeneity among European countries may reflect greater homogeneity in these and
other diet factors. The findings that egg consumption is protective for CVD in Asian
populations suggests that the context of egg consumption is perhaps more important than
the eggs at least at low levels of consumption.
Hope the Authors find these comments helpful.
