1. Nicely quantified view of issuance, timing, and content of postmarket safety communications by
regulators for newer antihyperglycemic drug class. Topic relevant to prescribers, many people living
with diabetes. and to those interested in patient treatment safety in general.
2. Do be careful about overgeneralizing. (SGLT-2 inhibitors used as adjunct treatment for type 1
diabetes are used off-label in most cases, although one dual inhibitor drug is cleared in Europe:
https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/08/08/1899694/0/en/Lexicon-Pharmaceuticals-A
nnounces-Publication-of-Positive-Data-for-Zynquista-Sotagliflozin-on-Cardiorenal-Clinical-Biomarkers-i
n-Adults-With-Type-1-Diabetes.html).
Clearly, discrepancies in regulatory body safety communications in general are of interest to all
patients. Yet communication about safety risks with SGLT-2 inhibitors are only immediately relevant
to those who are candidates for the drugs or who are taking them legally in countries that issue alerts.
Blanket statement "Where people with diabetes live should not determine their treatment safety" is
laudable sentiment, but too broad in terms of the research findings.
2. 227-246: Consider more clearly describing the areas of concern/further research raised by your
research. Your main points could be emphasized at the beginnings of relevant sentences in this
section, thus making them more easily digested at a glance. It was unclear to me whether you have
six main concerns to convey (summarized below), or fewer but discuss some of the concerns in more
detail.
-Better understanding of reach, impact, and perception of safety warnings by prescribers.
-Criteria and standards for communication to public (protect against selective approaches)
-Concept of "unexpected" or less expected risks not supported by references and could be
dangerous—do we have a good way to gauge what prescribers or patients expect from their drugs?
-Prioritization and timing of safety communications by regulators
-Mixed messages, downplayed messages
-Influence of weakening of safety messages (I would argue that the final message in Box 1 is actually
more precise and actionable than the first--in which the wordiness and abstract concept of "number
needed to harm" may make that message less accessible to patients).
3. Check recent updates on SGLT-2s clearance and labels to see whether any additions needed to
manuscript. Will be interesting to see whether this study spurs any updates in safety communications:
https://annals.org/aim/article-abstract/2739786/sodium-glucose-cotransporter-2-inhibitors-risk-sever
e-urinary-tract-infections
4. Thank you for the opportunity to review this paper as a patient advocate.