This is a complex analysis of data examining the effectiveness of USAID’s Feed the Future
program in 12 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The goal is important, because a lot of
money is spent on aid programs and evaluations to determine effectiveness are needed to
evaluate whether such money is appropriately spent. The primary outcome was stunting (a
binary variable with height-for-age defined as greater than or less than/equal to -2 SDs) in
children under 5 years in data collected in independent nationally-representative surveys
by various organizations, and comparator countries were ones that were included in the
FTF initiative. Attempts are made to control for non-nutrition differences during the
intervention period, which seems necessary and important.
As a qualifier I will say that I do not think I have the background to adequately examine
the statistical approaches in this paper, and somebody with high-level expertise in these
types of analyses should also review it. My comments are largely concerned with
highlighting the assumptions made in the analysis that as a non-expert raise some red
flags, and the presentation of the data.
With that background, the assumptions in the models seem to be an important factor
determining the validity of the analysis. In particular I note that the models adjust for
baseline differences between control and intervention countries, and inferences from the
models depend on “1 – that outcomes would continue to follow pre-intervention trends
absent the program, and 2 – that these preintervention trends are similar (e.g. parallel)

between treated and control populations. These appear to be really big assumptions
because, according to the USAID website, the FTF program intentionally chose countries
that would be likely to benefit from the program – doesn’t this suggest that they were
chosen for the potential for particular (e.g. non-linear trend) benefits, rather than just
continuing trends. The authors note this assumption as a limitation of the study, but the
question of whether this is a major or minor issue really needs a statistician with relevant
expertise to weight in.
The paper is generally very well written and easy to follow. Something I did not see is a
discussion of why the numbers presented here for 1 million fewer stunted children differs
from the USAID website value of >3 million. At the least it seems like a discussion is
merited (with citations) on why the number is different/better etc so that we can
understand the discrepancy.
Another potentially important limitation, which the authors raise in the discussion, is the
fact that the FTF programs were conducted in sub-regions of the countries whereas the
surveys were national. Thus the benefits for the FTF program were specific to the regions
of intervention, and the authors could not get information on the specifics of regional
implementation. Won’t this mean that the statistics of 1 million less stunted children be an
underestimate of the FTF benefits in proportion to the percentages of intervention countries
where FTF was conducted? If this is correct, the current analysis will underestimate the
beneficial effects of FTF.
Another issue that should be addressed is that the surveys look at stunting under 5 years,
but the effects of FTF may potentially be greater during the first 1000 days when growth is
malleable, rather than later. Again, this may or may not be correct but seems to merit
discussion, and if true would suggest that the analyses may underestimate the long-term
impact of FTF.
Several of the above concerns raise the issue that the biases in this analysis are largely
slanted towards underestimating effects rather than being random errors, which is an
additional issue that should be addressed.
I would like to stress that the above concerns are raised for the purpose of asking that a
qualified statistician review them. This is an important topic and if the models and
assumptions are reasonable its an important contribution to the literature that deserves
widespread attention.
