Dear Editor,
Many thanks for the opportunity to review this excellent manuscript, and apologies
for the delay in submitting my report. I have a couple of very minor comments to
make; otherwise I support the publication of this article.
Kind regards,
Laura

Dear authors,
Thank you for this manuscript; it is very well written - clear and succinct, and with
extremely valuable information.
As mentioned, I only have very minor comments to make:

- Page 4, line 40: remove "add more", i.e. "disability has the potential to help
researchers..."
- Page 5, line 7: add a final "l" to "Leve 1", i.e. "Level 1"
- Page 5, line 26: this sentence (i.e. "we obtained proportion disabled by cause and
proportion non-disabled by cause by age and cause") is not clear; please re-write.
- Page 6, line 4: could you please provide a brief explanation of how the Gini
coefficients is computed/what it represents (here or in the Methods section), to help
its interpretation by people not familiar with the methodology.
- Page 6, line 9: add an "l" to "controling", i.e. "controlling"
- Page 9, line 13: remove "the", i.e. "... which largely contradicts its importance to
global health."
- Discussion comments: I realize that you might be restricted by word count, and
that you also cannot comment on all the findings of your study, but was particularly
intrigued by two findings and was wondering if you could briefly comment on these:
i) Why do you think females tend to have a more positive total effect, compared to
males? Is this primarily a reflection of the longer life expectancy in women, or could
it also be a consequence of other socio-economic factors (e.g. women have more
access to healthcare; cultural norms may impede males from "reporting" their illness
until it's too late) - these would be really important to consider when developing
policies.
ii) I was also intrigued by the fact that the change in total effect for neglected
tropical diseases and malaria was relatively low, especially when one considers the
funding that goes into some of these diseases (e.g. malaria) - why do you think this
is?
- In Figures 3 and 4, it is hard to read the text in those boxes that have a red and
violet background; could you perhaps use a lighter shade to facilitate reading.
I hope these comments are helpful,
Laura