I think this is a very important study which demands to be disseminated widely. I would
expect it to influence international guidelines and clinical practice. It has been carried out
by an experienced team to a high standard. In general I found the report clear, and easy to
read and seems to adhere to the CONSORT guidelines for reporting trials

I have some comments which the authors might wish to respond to:

1. This trial used a group sequential design. For the general BMJ reader I think it would be
useful to include an explanation of what this term means since it will then be easier for
them to understand the change in protocol which was made two thirds through the trial
recruitment. Although if one reads the supplementary materials it become clear that from
the change onwards only patients >65 and at high risk were recruited, it is not clear from
the manuscript. I think this is worth stating clearly.
In the methods they refer to blinding of the outcome assessment by technicians doing the
compression duplex ultrasound. I think an extra line clarifying that GCS were removed
before going to dept for this would be helpful. Of course some unblinding may occur due to
GCS leaving indentations on skin and the protocol included some measure of unblinding - I
did not spot that in the manuscript of supplementary material?. I presume it was just the

written report of the CDU which was sent for central review, rather than the ultrasound
images themselves - this might be clarified further in the manuscript.
I think there needs to be a little more discussion about the length and perhaps the type of
GCS used in the trial. The authors point out that over 95% of the GCS used were below
knee, with a small minority being thigh-length. This does reflect clinical practice and
therefore there findings are very relevant to current UK practice. They refer to a couple of
systematic reviews. Reference 2 is the Cochrane review which indicates that GCS might
reduce risk of VTE in hospitalised patients (excluding stroke). That review found that the
trials included used thigh length GCS, or had not stipulated the length (confirming findings
of Roderick et al in previous review) - so in fact there are no trials which have shown that
below knee GCS reduce the risk of DVT. They also refer to another systematic review (ref
13) which compared Below knee with Thigh length - in fact the direct comparisons
favoured thigh length over below know but the results were inconclusive. That
meta-analysis did not consider the CLOTS 2 trial which randomised over 3000 patient with
stroke to long or short GCS and found lower rates of VTE in those using thigh-length GCS
(even though CLOTS 1 had found no reduction with thigh-length GCS compared with
None). Therefore I think this trial results are very relevant to current practice ( which uses
below know GCS because they are more acceptable to patients and staff and cheaper for
hospitals to purchase) but it does not exclude the possibility that actually thigh length GCS
could add benefit (or risks) to standard care.
There is also a lot of interest in different manufacturers of GCS since they vary a lot in
design, compression, sizing and thus adherence, cost, evidence base etc. Given that the
trial only had 7 centres I would be fairly confident the trial team will know (or be able to
find out with 7 phone calls) what type of GCS was used in each centre. I think this
information should be added to the supplementary data, or at least put into the public
domain in their HTA Journal report.