This is a valuable study and well written paper providing convincing estimates for the
modelled CVD benefit of replacing regular salt with potassium-enriched salt substitutes in
the general adult population in China. The assessment of net benefits among individuals
with chronic kidney disease adds greatly to the value of the study. Findings form the basis
for a nationwide intervention aiming to improve public health. The reviewers have raised
relevant concerns. Especially, data behind several assumptions needed to be more
comprehensively presented as the study should be reproducible. However, authors have
markedly improved the manuscript. I have only minor remarks that do not necessarily
require another review round.
In your paper, feasibility of a possible nationwide approach remains uncertain. Besides
education, authors could have provided more examples of relevant steering instruments to
be used. In earlier population-level interventions, national government initiatives have
showed the potential to achieve population-wide reductions in salt intake, particularly if
they have employed more than one strategy and included structural activities such as food
product reformulation (Mc Laren et al. Cochrane SR 2016). In the study of Li et al. (BJN
2009) any adverse effect on flavour caused by the salt substitute did not translate into
changes in saltiness or overall acceptability of home-cooked foods. This favors the
acceptability of salt substitution as a strategy for blood pressure control as it is unlikely to
be importantly impacted by adverse effects of the salt substitute on food taste.
Valid salt and sodium intake estimates are hard to establish and most dietary assessment
methods provide somehow biased values. In your referred study (Hipgrave et al. 2016)
weighed salt consumption yielded a calculated sodium intake much less than
laboratory-analyzed sodium intake. This could have been discussed when interpreting the
results.
In future modeling studies, benefits of replacing regular salt with potassium-enriched salt
substitutes should be assessed in the most vulnerable groups in China (e.g. pregnant
women, children). Assessment of benefits would provide valuable estimates for the public
health policy makers as e.g. pre-eclampsia can lead to serious complications for both
mother and offspring.
