In this study, Solo et al. performed a systematic review and network meta-analysis of
randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the efficacy and safety of various
antithrombotic regimens in patients undergoing CABG for stable ischemic heart disease or
acute coronary syndrome. The authors included data from 21 articles related to 20 unique
RCTs comprising 4,803 patients and 8 different antithrombotic drug(s)/combinations
compared with placebo or each other. The primary efficacy endpoint was saphenous vein
graft failure (SVGF) and the primary safety endpoint was major bleeding. Secondary
endpoints included myocardial infarction (MI) and death. The network meta-analysis
yielded moderate-certainty evidence supporting the use of dual antiplatelet therapy
(DAPT) with aspirin + ticagrelor (OR: 0.50; 95% CI: 0.31-0.79) or aspirin + clopidogrel
(OR: 0.60; 95% CI: 0.42-0.86) versus aspirin monotherapy in reducing SVGF. There was
no strong evidence of difference in various antithrombotic regimens versus aspirin
monotherapy with regard to major bleeding, MI, or death.
The authors must be commended for performing a rigorous network meta-analysis and
following a prespecified protocol. The study is an important contribution and adds to the
existing knowledge of choice of antithrombotic therapy in patients undergoing CABG. The
research question is clearly defined and appropriately answered. Methods are adequately
described and Results appropriately presented. The interpretation and conclusion needs to
be revised (see specific comments below).
I have the following specific comments -

- As shown in column 4 of Table 1, the treatment duration was variable in the included
RCTs. How did the authors account for this? For DAPT, only 2 out of 6 RCTs comparing
ASA + Clopidogrel vs ASA, and 1 out of 2 RCTs comparing ASA + Ticagrelor vs ASA had a
treatment duration of 12 months. It is unclear how the authors conclude that "one year"
DAPT should be the preferred antithrombotic strategy to prevent SVGF after CABG. I do
not think that this network meta-analysis allows us to draw any conclusion regarding the
duration of DAPT. The authors should consider revising the conclusion accordingly.
- Page 7, line 26: "...the inference for our base-case analysis was made at the patient
level..."
This sentence is confusing and may be misinterpreted as analysis of 'patient-level data',
which this meta-analysis is not (since it used study level data). Please modify to
something like "...the inference for our base-case analysis was made based on the
per-patient SVGF events..."
- Page 15, lines 17-26
While I agree that the authors do not have access to patient-level data in the RCTs, I still
think it is feasible and would add value to perform meta-regression to determine if the
effect of DAPT vs ASA on SVGF is modified by the indication (CAD vs ACS) or urgency
(elective vs non-elective) of CABG.
- Can the authors postulate in the Discussion why ASA + Clopidogrel vs ASA alone is
associated with increased risk of major bleeding in patients undergoing PCI (CURE Trial N
Engl J Med 2001; 345:494-502), but not in those undergoing CABG (CASCADE Trial
Circulation. 2010;122:2680-7; PAPA CABG Trial Am Heart J. 2010;160:1178-84)?