This is an excellent, necessary, timely and clearly written article. I think it has both academic and
practical clinical merit and would strongly support its publication as soon as possible. A couple of points:
The authors draw an initial distinction between COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients, and suggest that
questions of potential discrimination arise in relation to triage decisions relating to non-COVID-19
patients. They state:
"Two categories of ventilated patients might be subject to withdrawal for reallocation: COVID-19
patients and non-COVID-19 patients. While withdrawal and reallocation of ventilators will be ethically
fraught in both contexts, the second group raises distinct ethical issues because it encompasses persons
with acute or chronic disabilities. How should reallocating ventilators be handled in practice?"
There will of course also be decisions about ventilator access to be made with regard to COVID-19
patients who also have underlying disabilities or morbidities that may - or may be seen - to be relevant
to decisions about ventilation. In a UK context, this group have understandably been very vocal,
expressing profound concerns that their disability will disadvantage them unfairly in relation to access to
ventilatory support should they contract COVID-19. I don't think this necessarily affects the ethical or
practical analysis in the article but it did seem to be an omission.
There is one other extremely fraught area of decision making that might just use some ethical
elaboration. This relates to those who have chronic disabilities and are to some degree
ventilator-dependent. The authors - rightly in my view - suggest that these patients should be spared
triage decisions. The removal of ventilators from this group based on COVID-19 pressures does seem

barbaric - and in truth highly unlikely in reality - but I wonder if this intuitive position could be ethically
defended slightly more. it would seem to me that where people are dependent on ventilation, there is an
established relationship and duty of care and the ventilated person regards their life as valuable, then
strong obligations arise to continue to provide them with treatment. But I have a sense that this is
morally fraught, and would welcome the authors' views.
Finally I would like to commend the authors on the practicality, thoughtfulness and ethical sensitivity of
the article. It is very much needed and hope it is rapidly published.