This study conducted the systematic review and meta-analysis to examine the effects of a
SGLT1/2 inhibitor, sotagliflozin, in patients with type 1 diabetes. The authors found that
sotagliflozin treatment improved glycemic control as well as other nonglycemic outcomes,
compared with placebo. In addition, sotagliflozin treatment decreased the risk of severe
hypoglycemia, which is one of the major adverse events in the treatment of patients with
type 1 diabetes. On the other hand, the risks of DKA, genital tract infections and diarrhea
increased in patients with sotagliflozin. This paper will provide an important implications in
the management of type 1 diabetes.
Please find a few comments below.
Methods
Please add the references to the descriptions below if available.

Outcome measures (page 7): “All measures of dispersion were converted to standard
deviations (SDs). When standard deviations were not reported, estimated baseline and
final standard deviations were derived from data from other studies with the same drug
and dose.”
Management of missing data (page 9): “If neither the standard deviations nor the p values
were supplied, imputation of a standard deviation from studies with similar measurement
methods, duration and measurement error was used if available1 and tested in a
sensitivity analysis and reported if the estimate differed meaningfully from previous
estimates.”.
In addition, please provide the results of sensitivity analyses if conducted.

Results
Were the evaluation of publication bias conducted for all outcomes reported in this paper,
or three outcomes reported in Supplementary Fig 3 A-C?
Page 10 “The analysis of Funnel plots and the Egger test (p>0.67 for all outcomes) did not
find any evidence of publication bias (supplementary Figure 3 panel A-C). ”

I would suggest the authors to include the data which support the following results.
HbA1c (page 10)
“The effect was independent of trial duration and baseline HbA1c on meta-regression
analysis.”
FPG and 2h-PPG (page 11)
“There was little heterogeneity in the meta-analysis, suggesting a consistent drug effect.
The effect was independent of trial duration and baseline HbA1c.”

Discussion
Long-term renoprotective effects have been reported by of SGLT-2 inhibitor, whereas
reduction in eGFR was revealed by sotagliflozin in this paper.
Please provide the possible explanation for this discrepancy. Subgroup analysis or
meta-regression analysis using trial duration would be helpful.
