Barnett, Mewburn, and Schroter analyze data from BMJ’s and BMJ Open’s manuscript
submission system with regard to when authors submit their papers and referees their
reviews. They set out to find evidence for their hypothesis of an increasing workload among
academics, both as authors and reviewers, and thus of increasing numbers of submissions
handed in out-of-hours, i.e., on weekends or early in the morning and late at night (defined
as 6 pm-7 am) or.
Among more than 50.000 submissions and more than 70.000 reviews, approximately half of
submissions and reviews were uploaded outside normal working hours, with no substantial
differences between journals. However, contrary to expectations, during the observation
period (2012-2019) no trend towards more out-of-hours submissions occurred. Instead, the
authors found marked differences among countries of origin, as defined by
authors’/reviewers’ addresses. On the basis of this study, scientists from East Asia, China in
particular, worked more overtime than those from Scandinavian countries, although there is
substantial variability within countries. The authors appropriately discuss several limitations
(e.g., too short an observation period) and alternative explanations for their findings.
This is an inventive study on a topic of broad interest to the medical scientific community,
and it seems to be well crafted (I cannot judge the statistics with certainty). I have only few
comments:
1. I have difficulties in following the starting point of this endeavor, when the authors write:
…the data shows that academics are publishing more and more papers (2). While reference
2 indicates an increase in scientific articles (albeit limited to Medline coverage), it does not
support the authors’ claim to the extent that individual scientists publish ever more papers.
In fact, the only analysis I am aware of shows no signs of increased author output
(https://www.researchtrends.com/issue-38-september-2014/publish-or-perish-the-rise-of-th
e-fractional-author/).
2. To me, the main finding is that there is no indication of a time trend. IMO, the authors
should emphasize and discuss this finding because physician workload is a problem (or not)
that deserves attention as well as discussion. In this connection, the authors may want to
refer to their pre-study of PLOS ONE papers showing a trend to more submissions on

weekends indeed (as stated in Barnett and co-authors’ protocol on GitHub). Much of the
action (increase of weekend submissions) seems to take place before 2012.
3. The one related study I know (because I am one of the authors) analyzed when doctors
take part in print continuing medical education. Cme is different from submitting papers or
reviews, but one might argue that keeping up-to-date should be part of everyday work
routine, the same way doing research should be for scientists. Also, the extent of
out-of-hours cme came as a surprise to me: 29% of print cme participations took place on
weekends, and almost 40% during the 6 am to 7 pm stretch that the authors of the present
study define as outside common working times. It therefore appears that more than 50% of
cme activities happen out-of-hours, similar to the proportion shown in the present study
(Christ et al. JMIR 2017; https://www.jmir.org/2017/4/e49/ ).
4. Abstract: As a reader, I prefer percentages to statements, such as 1-in-7, but that maybe
different with other readers.
5. I would have welcomed a brief introduction to the term credible interval. What is its
specific meaning?
6. I understand the advantage of using a uniform case definition of
out-of-hours, but this may introduce bias because working hours may
differ by country. In most non-surgery specialties in my country, for
example, work starts at 8 am. Thus, 7.30 am is out-of-hours unless
doctors are on call."
7. The authors may want to discuss that being on call or working night shifts may interfere
with the definition of overtime work, it is conceivable that doctors submit their material
during work, even if it outside normal working hours. A valid counter-argument may be the
difference among countries, but then it may be that in regions with fewer doctors (China?)
physicians are more often on call than in those with higher numbers (Norway?).
8. How would the results look without China (sensitivity analysis)?
9. More context possible? There must be more literature on workload and its trends among
doctors/researchers.
