Great initiative on an important subject. My review is based solely on the elements of the
article dealing with SII of hormones by trans people. While the intentions seem well

placed, the language and concerns seem slightly out-dated/out of touch with current
realities faced by trans people. My summarised thoughts as follows:
1. Language: generally “trans” is preferred to “transgender” - definitely replace the used
of “transgendered” which borders on the derogatory; also, trans PEOPLE is preferred to
trans MEN and WOMEN as this is inclusive of non-binary trans people who also choose to
undertake gender affirming treatment. Again, ‘gender affirming’ treatment/gender
affirmation is more current than ‘gender balance’ or ‘transition’. Avoid language of ‘gender
dysphoria’ where it is not accompanied by critical explanation of discriminatory roots of
this diagnosis.
2. Absence of reference to the huge impact of pathologising medical classifications and
requirements on trans access to health care broadly, and to gender affirming treatments
in particular. The article over-emphasises the impact of criminal laws, implying that trans
people in States without criminal laws don’t face significant barriers to health care access.
In many countries without criminal provisions, trans people are required to receive a
diagnosis of mental illness, and undergo a (sometimes extensive) period of psychological
or psychiatric assessment before receiving gender affirming care. The question of
informed consent is imperative here – in practice, trans people are often required to
provide third party consent prior to having access to hormonal treatment or gender
affirming care of any kind, instead of being allowed to provide informed consent
themselves for their own care. The requirement of mental health diagnosis and psych
assessment contribute to discriminatory health care environments for trans people and
can lead to individuals choosing alternative routes to accessing hormones and treatments.
The marginalisation of trans people is not just socio-cultural or legal, but is also inherently
a part of medical classification systems. I would strongly encourage the authors to include
these overly burdensome processes, medical classifications and the issue of consent in
their analysis.
– Further information can be found via the organisations TGEU (TvT worldwide project)
and GATE (see paper, Gender is Not an Illness), as well as the latest report of the UN
Independent Expert on SOGI (A/73/152, 2018), & joint statement of UN and regional
human rights experts on ending pathologisation
(https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=19956&LangI
D=E)