The authors must be congratulated bring this novel idea together of assessment of the
impact of food based dietary guidelines and environmental sustainability. Given that food
and the environment are so tightly interwoven. On a personal level this is a challenging
read given the depth of data in the supplementary file. The paper’s readability would
benefit from more of the data been presented in the main document if possible.
There are few comments that I have struggled with when reading the manuscript.
There is need for the authors to confirm that all the food based dietary guidelines are
targeted solely at the reduction of non-communicable disease. Some low middle income
countries the food based guidelines may have wider aims at supporting general health.
Coding of uncertainty scores: how reproducible are these some of the categories appear to
be subjective. What was the methodology for coding, was this carried out be one
researcher or was there more than one person coding? If so where they blind to each
other
Carbohydrate base foods: A number of European countries have guidelines around
carbohydrate/starch containing foods as part of the food-based guidelines. However, I got
the impression that this was not include in the modelling. I apologise if this is not the
case. If this has not been included then I would think there is a major problem considering
this is a large contributor to energy intake and is a plant based crop.

Oils, wholegrains and processed meat: As above how much impact does this make. Is
there any sensitivity analysis in countries where this data of good quality?
Current population intake: In how many counties was there a need to estimate current
intake because the data does not exist. I do worry that this will lead to totally inaccurate
estimates
Health Analysis: Here the BMI cut offs are European, these are not applicable in many part
of the world.
This paper is only as good as the quality of data feeding the analysis, I am unsure for the
quality of the data in many regions of the world.

<b>Please confirm that you understand and consent to the above terms and
conditions.</b>: I consent to the publication of this review
Please enter your name: Gary Frost
Job Title: Profesor of Nutrition and Dietetics
Institution: Imperial College London
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: Yes
A fee for organising education?: Yes
Funds for research?: Yes
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: Yes
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
If you have any competing interests <A
HREF='http://www.bmj.com/about-bmj/resources-authors/forms-policies-and-checklists/d
eclaration-competing-interests'target='_new'> (please see BMJ policy) </a>please declare
them here: no

Reviewer: 2
Recommendation:
