Specific Comments
1) I feel the authors need to justify the rationale for the study. Why do authors believe that the results
from the EPIC-Oxford cohort published in 2013 would change? Are there secular trends in diet patterns
(e.g., prevalence of vegetarianism) or management of CVD that authors believe would change their prior
findings?
2) I think the authors should avoid reporting the composite result of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and
stroke throughout the abstract and manuscript. The individual effect estimates for IHD and stroke are in
different directions so reporting a lower risk of the composite outcome is misleading as this finding is
driven by the larger number of IHD events compared to stroke events.
3) The different methods of recruitment for meat eaters and vegetarians may have induced some
selection bias since vegetarians who participated in the study may be at a lower risk of having the
outcome. This seems likely given the differences in baseline characteristics of vegetarians versus
meat-eaters (e.g., age, long term treatment for illness, physical activity). I also think that there may be
a potential for detection bias since the meat eaters were recruited from their GPs which means they had
the opportunity to be screened for diseases.
4) The category of meat eaters is quite heterogeneous since it groups all varieties of meats. I feel there
is a gradient to meat consumption (e.g., organic beef versus processed meats) that is not fully captured
through this categorization. There may be some degree of residual confounding by grouping all meat
eaters regardless of quality/type.
5) Why did authors use self-reported blood pressure, cholesterol, and diabetes when they had the
Hospital Episodes Statistics data? Diagnoses for diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, or diabetes using ICD-9
codes could have been used.
6) What did authors do with individuals that had both an AMI and stroke? Did they censor at first event?
7) Readers would benefit from a flow diagram outlining the number of individuals who were included or
excluded from the study by the various methods of recruitment.
8) Lines 143-150: authors should consider rewording this section. It is currently difficult to understand
how absolute risk differences were calculated in this study.
9) Authors should explain the basis for performing their sensitivity analyses. Why did the authors
perform a sensitivity analysis with only individuals aged 70 years and older? Was there a concern about
depletion of susceptibles or competing risk of death?
10) Line 277: authors mention alternative factors as a potential explanation for the discordant findings
but do not mention what these may be. This warrants further discussion.
11) Lines 285-287: do authors have the results of the sub-cohort of individuals for which serum
concentrations of nutritional factors and non-HDL-C were measured?