1. While the authors conducted a series of appropriate MR analyses based on established
analytical methods, the main issue is the definition of the “childhood adiposity”, which is
the primary variable of interest. The authors aim to evaluate the effect of childhood
adiposity or early life BMI on several diseases, but the actual data collected in UK Biobank
are based on recalls of participants when they were 10 years old as “compared to average
would you describe yourself as thinner, plumper or about average”. This represents the
self-perception of body size, and does not accurately represent childhood adiposity or BMI
measurement. Even though that UK Biobank might have the largest sample size, the data
on childhood adiposity is suboptimal for these specific research objectives. Genetic
instruments of early life BMI developed based on a longitudinal cohort with actual BMI
measurements in childhood would be more appropriate, and there are several previous
studies reported on this trait that could be used as the basis of the genetic instruments
(PMID 26604143, PMID 25953783, etc).

To provide evidence that the genetic instruments developed based on this self-reported
body size perception, one can assess the strength of the genetic instruments based on the
actual measurements of childhood BMI in other available studies with genetic data. This
would be more informative than the LD score regression reported in the manuscript.
2. To address the issue of misclassification of early life BMI, the authors did the simulation
analysis and concluded that the misclassification will most likely affect genetic instruments
for early life BMI, and therefore also the estimates between early life BMI and disease
outcome. This is as expected, and while it is possible for the bias to be away from the null
in certain cases given that the early life BMI is categorized as an ordinal variable with
multiple categories, it is also likely that the bias can be toward null. It is not clear how
much of this bias is contributing to the null results of the current analysis for T2D and CAD.
3. Presumably, the authors chose to use this less than optimal variable in UK Biobank to
represent the early life BMI to facilitate the multivariable MR analysis based on individual
level data, in which both adult and early life BMI are measured in the same population.
The alternative is to conduct two-sample multivariable MR, in which the authors can use
the more appropriate variable to represent childhood BMI from other large studies that are
designated to do so. This is not infeasible as there are mature birth cohorts where the
covariance between the effects of the SNP on each BMI measure can be obtained. The
other alternative approach is to use mediation analysis framework to deconstruct direct
and indirect effect, without compromising the primary variable of interest.
4. When considering the early life vs adult BMI, one of the key issues is the timing of
susceptibility. This is difficult to capture in MR analysis, and authors did acknowledge this
in the discussion. In addition, it is likely that BMI would have a non-linear relationship with
the disease of interests, as we have seen for other disease outcome, such as cancer
prognosis. This is also difficult to capture using MR analysis and should be discussed.
5. The application of negative control analysis was informative and BOLT-LMM method was
appropriate for UK Biobank.
6. Minor points:
a. In the Multivariable MR analysis, there is an assumption of linearity across variables
included. Is this assumption fulfilled in this analysis?

Please enter your name: Rayjean Hung
Job Title: Senior Investigator
Institution: Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No

Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No

Reviewer: 3
Originality - does the work add enough to what is already in the published literature? If so,
what does it add?
If not, please cite relevant references.
Several Mendelian Randomization (MR) studies have examined the association of childhood
and adult obesity with major diseases. For example, these studies have shown child obesity
associated with CAD and diabetes (Fang X, Zuo J, Zhou J, Cai J, Chen C, Xiang E, Li H,
Cheng X, Chen P. Childhood obesity leads to adult type 2 diabetes and coronary artery
diseases: A 2-sample mendelian randomization study. Medicine (Baltimore).
2019Aug;98(32):e16825) and adult obesity associated with CAD (Larsson SC, Bäck M,
Rees JMB, Mason AM, Burgess S. Body mass index and body composition in relation to 14
cardiovascular conditions in UK Biobank: a Mendelian randomization study. Eur Heart J.
2019 Jun 13). MR studies have also shown that lower childhood BMI is associated with
higher risk of breast cancer. (Guo Y, et al Genetically Predicted Body Mass Index and
Breast Cancer Risk: Mendelian Randomization Analyses of Data from 145,000 Women of
European Descent.
PLoS Med. 2016 Aug 23;13(8):e1002105.). The novelty of this paper is showing childhood
obesity without adult obesity is not associated with higher risk of CAD and diabetes.
• Importance of work to general readers - does this work matter to clinicians, patients,
teachers, or policymakers? Is a general journal the right place for it?
It is helpful to know that the effect of child obesity could be mitigated by lack of adulthood
obesity
• Scientific reliability
This is an MR study.
• Research Question - clearly defined and appropriately answered? Yes. It would be great if
the introduction gave some conceptual framework explaining why BMI at different life
stages, here childhood versus adulthood, should have different effects
• Overall design of study - adequate ? The measure of childhood BMI is somewhat difficult
to interpret, because it is a recalled relative comparison at 10 years old, i.e., approximately
in the 1950s in the UK, when childhood BMI was lower than today. It would be helpful if
this measure could be contextualized with some indication of what is likely to have been
the average BMI in each group.
• Participants studied - adequately described and their conditions defined?
It would be very helpful to know the average age of the participants for each outcome and
each study used. In general, it would be helpful to have more information about the
underlying GWAS, for example number of cases, use of genomic control, ethnicity, etc
• Methods - adequately described? Complies with relevant reporting standard - Eg
CONSORT for randomised trials ? Ethical ?
It would be ideal if the description of the genetic analysis could be made more accessible to
the general reader
It would be helpful to clarify what type of IVW was used. It would be helpful to describe
and report on any sensitivity analysis used to check the robustness of the results
It is unclear as to the value of a negative control, i.e., age of menarche, because bias from
pleiotropy depends on the specific exposure-outcome pair, so results for one
exposure-outcome pair do not inform the validity of a different exposure-outcome pair. It
would be helpful to explain the value of this analysis in more detail or to delete it so as to
make the paper more focused.

• Results - answer the research question? Credible? Well presented?
It would also be helpful to see the results stratified by age
Please clarify when the results relate to the UK Biobank and when they encompass other
data sources for the outcomes.
• Interpretation and conclusions - warranted by and sufficiently derived from/focused on
the data? Message clear?
Please contextualize the interpretation better by giving a power calculation. Please provide
a more thorough assessment of whether the assumptions of MR have been met in this
study. The inverse association of childhood BMI with breast cancer is consistent with
previous studies, but it is still puzzling. It would be helpful to consider the possibility of
selection bias and whether it could explain any of the findings, particularly for breast and
prostate cancer. Studies of the effects of obesity are notoriously open to selection bias,
which can result in type II error or even reversed estimates.
Please reflect briefly on the mechanism underlying these observations. Please also reflect
on their generalizability
• References - up to date and relevant? Any glaring omissions?
Given new MR studies appear all the time please check for new relevant studies
• Abstract/summary/key messages/What this paper adds - reflect accurately what the
paper says?
The study does not explicitly show the risk associated with higher BMI in childhood followed
by normal BMI in adulthood, so it might be worth considering toning down this implication
throughout
Please enter your name: CM Schooling
Job Title: Professor
Institution: CUNY SPH
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No

Reviewer: 4
In this manuscript, Tom Richardson and colleagues used two-sample univariable and
multi-variable Mendelian randomization to disentangle the effects of early life and adult
body mass index (BMI) on later life disease risk. Authors showed that genetically driven
childhood adiposity increased type 2 diabetes (T2D) and coronary artery disease (CAD)
odds, but estimated effect-sizes were largely mediated through adulthood BMI. In addition,

they showed that early life adiposity had a strong protective effect on breast cancer, which
was not modified by adulthood BMI, but largely driven by age of menarche. Findings
suggest that there is no persistent influence of childhood obesity on risk of T2D and CAD,
unless adiposity is sustained, and that puberty plays an important role on the effect of
early life adiposity and breast cancer.
This is an outstanding study addressing one of the major public health threats of our
society. The observation that an opportunity window exists to mitigate the detrimental
impact of genetically driven childhood obesity on the risk of cardiometabolic outcomes
offers a rational framework for practice and policy. In addition, better understating of
biological pathways influencing the relationship between adiposity and breast cancer is
necessary to guide effective preventive and therapeutic strategies.
This paper has the following strengths:
1. Focus on a relevant hypothesis and a major clinical need
2. The use of cutting-edge analytical methods in a well-powered dataset to address
complex clinical questions
3. Potential to inform practice and policy by generating preliminary evidence
I offer some comments that I hope will be helpful.
The major issue of this study is early life adiposity definition (sometimes denoted as early
life BMI). Early life adiposity definition is based on self-reported body composition
perception (thinner, plumper or about average). Authors conducted a couple of sensitivity
analyses to recapitulate the phenotype of interest (“early life BMI”) including genome-wide
genetic correlations and simulation analysis to avoid misclassification by adulthood body
mass index. Regarding genome-wide genetic correlations I think we are missing the
genetic correlation between both BMI measurements. I am wondering whether the two
phenotypes are different enough to allow their inclusion in a multivariate Mendelian
randomization (this seems based on the magnitude of effects alone). Regarding the
simulation analysis, misclassification of 15% of the data seems very generous. Roughly
~50% of men and women can accurately perceive their body weight status, a figure that
decreases to 20% among obese men and women, and weight misperception has been
associated with weight gain and poor cardiometabolic outcomes.
There is something from a conceptual point of view that is difficult to reconciliate.
Mendelian randomization has been presented as a method to estimate the causal effect of
an exposure on an outcome, which is consistent even in the presence of unmeasured
confounding and reverse causation if the instrumental variable criteria are satisfied. Now
we have evidence of genetic instruments that are modified by a third variable and are no
longer associated with the outcome of interest. I guess it would be difficult for the readers
to understand how this causal effect can be modified or reversed. What do we gain with
the use of genetics instruments that can be modified by confounders? How this differ from
traditional epidemiological methods? I think we are entering a new era of Mendelian
randomization studies and authors have an excellent opportunity to briefly touch on this
conceptual aspect to educate the scientific and non-scientific community.
Along these lines, multivariable MR-Egger would be more appropriate to rule out potential
pleiotropic effects explained by the effect of early life body perception on other risk factors.
Finally, findings relay solely on data from UK Biobank, so I would recommend to
acknowledge this in the discussion.
Overall, I think this is an exceptional manuscript that deserves to be published in the BMJ.
Please enter your name: Jordi Merino

Job Title: Research Associate
Institution: Diabetes Unit and Center for Genomic Medicine, Massachusetts General
Hospital
Reimbursement for attending a symposium?: No
A fee for speaking?: No
A fee for organising education?: No
Funds for research?: No
Funds for a member of staff?: No
Fees for consulting?: No
Have you in the past five years been employed by an organisation that may
in any way gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No
Do you hold any stocks or shares in an organisation that may in any way
gain or lose financially from the publication of this paper?: No

