Dear authors, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to review the manuscript. I am
reviewing the manuscript based on ‘general’ patient experiences with healthcare practice.
Early warning scores are widely used and affect the care of many patients. The research
question is very pertinent in view of the quality of patients’ care and it is important that
these tools are valide and correctly developed. Study design and rationale were clear, the
manuscript is well written and very complete.

The text is rather technical which is fine to answer the research question. The text is
difficult to read and to understand for laypersons, but on the other side, I don't know if
there are so many alternatives to report this kind of results.
Patients and members of the public were involved in setting the research question and
developing the study. They have read and revised the manuscript, which I think is
sufficient in this phase of the study. For this research question, I think it is more an issue
of evidence then an issue of stakeholders’ opinions. It will be all the more important to
involve patients when models and their consequences are known so that patients could
weigh benefits and harms of using the different models.
The authors of the paper stated that “the models may not perform as well as expected, and
therefore have a highly detrimental effect on patient care”. As a patient I am curious to
read which harms occured and how many times they did occur, but I understand that this
was not part of the research question or this information might not have been available in
the included studies. It would have been an added value to have a summary of the positive
and negative aspects of each model, together with the predictors and their target
population. I don’t know if this is possible with the data you collected, but it could give a
more practical and clear view, besides the statistical or technical text.
I would like to recommend to acknowledge the group of patients involved in the study.
Yours sincerely,
Annemie Heselmans
