Thank you for the opportunity to re-review, and for your response. I've
provided additional comments below.

Major:
1.1 I now better understand how you used AdisInsight. I am not completely
satisfied with the answer that the methodology is proprietary. I do
appreciate your subjectively reviewing the results, but I want to see more
on how this was done, inter-rater reliability, etc, how differences were
adjudicated, etc.. Some of this was in your response letter. And I’d like to
see similar discussions related to the qualitative examinations of whether a
spin-off technology originated in a university.
To be clear: I think a qualitative approach to add to the quantitative data is
fine and may catch important stuff that the patent/assignee (and certainly
government interest) data will not. But the origin of ideas involves
extremely difficult conceptual questions (and these issues are often the
matters of costly litigation and scientific priority disputes) and if we are to
believe a subjective assessment the readers need more convincing that the
reviews are unbiased and reliable, and potentially replicable were a third
party to consult the same sources.

The reliability of Wikipedia might also be addressed: for example how often
does it reveal a public sector role in cases where there is a known public
sector Orange Book patent? Similarly once could assess AdisInsight vs.
Orange Book where there is overlapping coverage. (That would tell us about
false negatives, not necessarily false positives.) In general the more detail
you can offer (even in the Appendix) the better.
Apologies for being a pedant: As the authors know these are politically
sensitive issues so it is crucial to bullet-proof these claims. If these were
simply second-order issues I think an overview would be fine, but it turns
out the data collected through these subjective assessments collection is the
main reason for differences with previous work, and is advertised as the
main advantage of this paper over previous ones. So the methodology
discussion here needs to be crystal clear and robust. An appendix laying out
the specific sources of information and rationale underlying these calls
(beyond “drug history”) or (“Adisinsight”) would be ideal. Some of the detail
in response letter would be useful as well, but I'd go deeper than that.
2 For Figure 1 I was asking for something else: the share of all drug
approvals from public sector using (1) OB alone, (2) OB + Merck (3) OB +
Merck + spinoffs (4) OB + Merck + spinoffs + AdisInsight. This does not
need to be longitudinal. Such a chart would allow us to see exactly what
data sources are driving the conclusion. It is in the table (the bottom row)
but a visual representation might be better. It looks like about 20-25
percent of the time the decision is made using the subjective approaches
discussed above (which again is perfectly fine if better documented).
3. Figure 2: This chart seems to imply the public sector role is increasing
over time. But that could be because of (1) actual changes over time or (2)
different data sources used in this analysis vs. previous ones. Obviously the
implications are very different. Perhaps show a separate bar for the current
study based on OB data alone (and I’m not sure there would then be sharp
changes over time) then also the “comprehensive” measure. This also
underscores the importance of better explaining the other non-OB data
sources to construct the “comprehensive” measure, as suggested above.
4. For policy implications: For a discussion of “is public sector research
valuable” or “does the private sector do it all” I agree the comprehensive
measure is the right one (and indeed a lower bound). For a discussion of
march-in, recoupment, pricing, I’m not sure that absent a patent with
government rights or ownership (or where there is a missing government
interest statement that can be shown to be an error) there is much that can
be done under current law. I think it is important to emphasize that policies
such as recoupment/marchin etc would not apply to the full 25 percent of
drugs being linked to government here. Whether or not the authors agree
with me here I’d like to see more attention to this.
Minor:
On page 10 (lines 36+ "Examining only the patent information …") there is a
suggestion that the Merck Index would miss patent expirations prior to
approval. But the inclusion Of such patents (page 8, lines 17) seemed to be
precisely why the Merck Index was used. Breaking this sentence in two
might help.

On the idea that patent based measures would miss cases where patents
not pursed. In principle bibliometric approaches try to get at this (including
the PNAS paper cited). I'd be explicit about that, and note that the
difference may be you are focused on late stage contributions. Also patent
citations to the literature aim to capture links where patents not pursued.
See Sampat and Lichtenberg (2011). And actually that paper also reports
numbers on the share of NMEs with public sector role, and is a more
comprehensive reference than Sampat (2009) - I’d suggest using the point
estimates from that paper instead in comparison to previous studies' shares.
The summary box continues to characterize the public sector role as "major''
Page 5: " some arguing that companies’ investment in drug discovery is the
key source for new drug development'' The paper now includes a link to a
pharma document, but I didn't see anything in that document making that
argument. Is there a quote?

The title of Figure 1 is confusing: Is it "Number of publicly funded drugs and
source of public funding link, over time" ? Or something like that?
