The authors carried out a prospective study of all pregnant women with Covid-19 disease admitted to
194 obstetric centres in the United Kingdom between March 1, 2020 and April 14, 2020. A total of 427
pregnant cases were included in the study and their characteristics were compared with a cohort of 694
women recruited in a previous study of seasonal influenza in 2017-2018. The rate of hospitalization with
confirmed Covid-19 disease in pregnancy was 4.9 per 1000 maternities. Compared with the historical
cohort, pregnant women with Covid-19 disease were more likely to be older, of Black or other minority
ethnicity, overweight and obese or to have pre-existing comorbidity. 9% of the women with Covid-19
disease required respiratory support, and 5 women died. Preterm birth rates and cesarean delivery rates
were relatively high among the women who delivered during the study period.
Comments
1. The authors deserve praise for having previously created the infrastructure for the surveillance of
maternal and perinatal health during a pandemic and for having carried out this population-based study
quickly.
2. The characteristics of the affected women and their outcomes will be of interest to the scientific
community, especially since study includes a census of Covid-19 cases in pregnancy (during a short
period). The information provided by the historical comparison cohort of pregnant women is a useful
addition, although the contrast may be inappropriate in some respects (see below).
3. Factors identified as being associated with Covid-19 disease in pregnancy included older maternal
age, Black or other minority ethnicity, overweight and obese and pre-existing comorbidity. This could
reflect a higher risk for infection or a higher risk of disease given infection among vulnerable subgroups,
or both.
4. The lower risk of Covid-19 disease among current smokers deserves comment as this negative
association has also been reported among non-pregnant adults (even if the robustness of the association
and its implications remain uncertain).
5. Although the inclusion of the historical cohort strengthens the study in some ways, it is unclear if this
cohort represents an appropriate comparison group. The Covid-19 women were hospitalized on account
of symptoms, whereas most women in the historical cohort were admitted for delivery. The substantial
fraction of undelivered women in the Covid-19 cohort attests to this lack of comparability.
6. There may be utility in estimating the likelihood of delivery among pregnant women with Covid-19 by
maternal characteristics. For example, comparing the proportion of women who delivered within 1 week
following onset of Covid-19 disease by maternal age may reveal if the disease is more likely to cause
spontaneous labour initiation (or a pregnancy complication such as maternal or fetal compromise) in
older women. Similarly, analyses by race, BMI and pre-existing co-morbidity would also be informative.
Such analyses may be more indicative of Covid-19 effects (given age, race, etc) than the contrast
involving the historical cohort (which could be indicative of exposure to infection). Estimating the
probability of delivery in the week following symptom onset (for example, among women at say 28

weeks' gestation; among women with mild vs severe disease) may be informative and helpful from a
clinical perspective.
Minor comments
The calculation of odds ratios for pregnancy loss and stillbirth was unclear (a footnote to identify the
reference group may be helpful).
