This is a well-written summary assessment of the landscape of coverage for RMNACH interventions
from the impressive Countdown to 2030 initiative.
The two main parts comprise an updated description of patterns of coverage using 3 analytic lens, and
a proposed new continuum of care framework to inform future monitoring - with implications for the
range of indicators and analytics used.
The first part is comprehensive, robust and informative, with clear figures and tables (though some
consideration needs to be given to legibility in the print version). For example, there is a particularly
well-articulated framing of the barriers and challenges to coverage improvement on page 6, and a
good summary of the wealth of initiatives in the area of RMNCAH on page 7.
However, the second part is less-convincing. Whilst the idea of updating the continuum of care
framework seems logical and timely, in response to the evidence from Countdown and the evolving
contexts of LMICS, the paper should - in my view - stop with making the case rather than presenting
a draft. The authors discuss at length the importance of an inclusive consultative process to create a
new framework, yet press ahead with developing their own, so creating the unintended impression of
organizations and individuals based in the global north {yet again} deciding what is useful for the
global south. And whilst illustrative versions of revised concepts can sometimes be useful, I feel this
will merely act as a distraction from the strong findings in the first part of the paper, Looking at their
Figure 4 immediately throws-up, for example, questions about how and why the additional indicators
are proposed, such as why skilled birth attendant and institutional delivery when they are almost the
same indicators in most LMICs. Moreover, the paper mentions the significant weaknesses in the scope
of monitoring progress, such as the absence of a quality of care dimension, and yet their illustrative
new framework shows no sign of this being somewhat addressed. In summary, I recommend the
authors remove Figure 4 and focus just on the case and potential process for generating an improved
framework.
Additional issues:
1. The paper ends somewhat abruptly and could benefit from re-capping on the limitations of their
coverage data and analysis
2. There is acknowledgement of the challenge of wanting to fine-tune the range and granularity of
monitoring indicators whilst trying to avoid overloading countries, but the final section of the paper
then rather contradicts this message. How do we ensure more and more indicators and monitoring
does not break "the camel's back {health information system} in LMICs?
3. Minor - page 1, line 16 – there seems to be a word missing!
Overall: this is an important paper, providing a robust update on the coverage of RMNACH
interventions. However, it would be more effective by simply making the case for an updated
continuum of care framework rather than proposing one.