The authors have undertaken a network meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials
assessing the effect of different anti-thrombotic agents primarily on saphenous vein graft
failure (SVGF) and major bleeding as well as secondary outcomes of myocardial infarction
and mortality. They find that one year of dual anti-platelet therapy with aspirin in
combination with either clopidogrel or ticagrelor has the best overall SVGF/bleeding profile
compared to other studied regimes.
The manuscript is well written and the methodology appears to be overall sound. The
great strengths of the study are firstly the network methodology allowing inclusion of
important trials that could not be included into a conventional meta-analysis, secondly the
impressive transparency with pre-registration on PROPSERO and pre-publication of the

analysis protocol. However, I have some comments regarding the clinical applicability of
the study and the methodology of the source studies as well as some comments on the
presentation of the data.
1. Although the rate of arterial (including internal mammary) graft failure, is lower than
SVGF, the former is of equal clinical importance in the context of right coronary artery and
circumflex artery bypass. In the context of left internal mammary artery bypass of the left
anterior descending artery, arterial graft failure is of greater clinical importance than
concomitant SVGF. Did the analyzed studies report the rate of arterial graft failure? Why
were arterial graft failures not considered at least as a secondary outcome.
2. The manuscript comments on varying definition of outcome definitions used between
studies. In the peer reviewed protocol publication, a sequence of preferred outcomes was
pre-specified in case the overall preferred definition of total occlusion was not used. This is
a strength of this meta-analysis as it means that bias is not introduced by authors using
outcomes that result in particular findings. What were the definitions of SVGF used in the
analyzed studies and subsequently used for the meta-analysis. Perhaps this could be
incorporated into one of the manuscript’s tables.
3. In the introduction the authors posit that “patients undergoing CABG remain at risk for
subsequent major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), mainly due to saphenous vein
graft failure (SVGF)” The 4 references cited for this statement are all observational studies
of varying size and duration. There are many potential unmeasured confounding factors
including native coronary artery characteristics and patient characteristics for these
associations to an extent that causation is not firmly established. Not all SVGFs are
clinically important. I would suggest rewording this to indicate that the relationship
between SVGF and MACE is an association rather than causal.
4. The previous point brings me to the clinical applicability of the study. The authors
rightly state that effects on clinical outcomes could not be detected due to insufficient
sample size, intentionally limited due to trial eligibility being based on reporting of SVGF.
In this reviewer’s opinion, it should be more overtly stated in the manuscript either in the
introduction or the limitations that SVGF is not a clinical outcome per se. Furthermore, a
brief discussion regarding the evidence for a causal vs confounded association relationship
between SVGF and MACE would be helpful for the reader to understand this issue. The
direct clinical applicability of the meta-analysis is limited by this issue. The authors
indirectly imply this. In the conclusion they advise that their finds should be considered in
upcoming guidelines, but to do so
5. Efficacy for preventing SVGF was analyzed as odds ratios between arms of trials. This
implies that none of the source trials analyzed SVGF occurrence as a time-to-SVGF
survival analysis (hazard ratio). Was this the case?
6. Figure 2 shows a visual representation of the overall network estimates for effects on
A) SVGF and B) major bleeding. Using Aspirin rather than placebo as the unity line is
unconventional but overall helpful given that is the current guideline standard. As a result
of this, however, the scale of these plots is not helpful for the reader. Figure 2A has the
same numerical scale from 1 to 0.2 as it does from 1 to 3.4. However the magnitude in
difference in treatment effect from 1 to 0.2 is much, much larger than the difference
between 1 and 1.8 even though they appear the same distance from no effect on the scale
provided. The reader might be misled, visually, to believe that the extent to which aspirin
prevent SVGF better than placebo is similar to the improved effect of aspirin + ticagrelor
over aspirin, whereas the latter difference is much larger. Either the scales should be
assymetric either side of aspirin as unity or placebo should be the unity line: either
solution would solve this scaling problem.